[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 53 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.Con.Res.53
                                           Agreed to May 9, 1995        

                       One Hundred Fourth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

         Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,
  the fourth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-five


                          Concurrent Resolution


 


Whereas United States diplomatic and economic security interests in 
  East Asia have caused the United States to maintain a policy of 
  recognizing the People's Republic of China while maintaining 
  solidarity with the democratic aspirations of the people of Taiwan;
Whereas the Republic of China on Taiwan (known as Taiwan) is the United 
  States sixth largest trading partner and an economic powerhouse 
  buying more than twice as much annually from the United States as do 
  the 1,200,000,000 Chinese of the People's Republic of China;
Whereas the American people are eager for expanded trade opportunities 
  with Taiwan, the possessor of the world's second largest foreign 
  exchange reserves;
Whereas the United States interests are served by supporting democracy 
  and human rights abroad;
Whereas Taiwan is a model emerging democracy, with a free press, free 
  elections, stable democratic institutions, and human rights 
  protections;
Whereas vigorously contested elections conducted on Taiwan in December 
  1994 were extraordinarily free and fair;
Whereas United States interests are best served by policies that treat 
  Taiwan's leaders with respect and dignity;
Whereas President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan, a Ph.D. graduate of Cornell 
  University, has been invited to pay a private visit to his alma mater 
  and to attend the annual USA-ROC Economic Council Conference in 
  Anchorage, Alaska;
Whereas there are no legitimate grounds for excluding President Lee 
  Teng-hui from paying private visits;
Whereas the Senate of the United States voted several times in 1994 to 
  welcome President Lee to visit the United States; and
Whereas Public Law 103-416 provides that the President of Taiwan shall 
  be welcome in the United States at any time to discuss a host of 
  important bilateral issues: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That it is the sense of the Congress that the President should promptly 
indicate that the United States will welcome a
private visit by President Lee Teng-hui to his alma mater, Cornell 
University, and will welcome a transit stop by President Lee in 
Anchorage, Alaska, to attend the USA-ROC Economic Council Conference.
    Sec. 2. The Clerk of the House of Representatives shall transmit a 
copy of this concurrent resolution to the President.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.

Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.