[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 303 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.Con.Res.303
                                        Agreed to April 13, 2000        

                       One Hundred Sixth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
             the twenty-fourth day of January, two thousand


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on the legislative day of Thursday, April 
13, 2000, or Friday, April 14, 2000, on a motion offered pursuant to 
this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it 
stand adjourned until 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, May 2, 2000, for morning-
hour debate, or until noon on the second day after Members are notified 
to reassemble pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first; and that when the Senate recesses or adjourns 
at the close of business on Thursday, April 13, 2000, or Friday, April 
14, 2000, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by 
its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand recessed or adjourned 
until noon on Tuesday, April 25, 2000, or such time on that day as may 
be specified by its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to 
recess or adjourn, or until noon on the second day after Members are 
notified to reassemble pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent 
resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. The Speaker of the House and the Majority Leader of the 
Senate, acting jointly after consultation with the Minority Leader of 
the House and the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify the 
Members of the House and the Senate, respectively, to reassemble 
whenever, in their opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
  Attest:

                          Jeff Trandahl,

                                                                       
                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.
              By

                                                                       
                                                          Deputy Clerk.

  Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.