(This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on September 17, 2014. The summary of that version is repeated here.)

Highlights:

The Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015 provides continuing FY2015 appropriations to federal agencies until December 11, 2014, or enactment of specified appropriations legislation.

The joint resolution also authorizes the Secretary of Defense (DOD) to provide assistance in Syria.

It also extends the operating authority of the Export-Import Bank, provides funding to respond to the outbreak of the Ebola virus in Africa, provides U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement with funding flexibility, and extends the Internet Tax Freedom Act.

Full Summary:

Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015 - Provides continuing FY2015 appropriations to federal agencies at the current annual rate until December 11, 2014, or enactment of specified appropriations legislation.

(Sec. 101) Appropriates funds to federal agencies for continuing projects and activities at the rate and under the authority and conditions provided in the applicable divisions of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014:

the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014;
the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014; and
the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014.

Reduces the rate of operations provided in this section by 0.0554%.

(Sec. 102) Prohibits funds provided by section 101 for the Department of Defense (DOD) from being used for: (1) new production of items not funded in FY2014 or prior years; (2) an increase in production rates above those sustained with FY2014 funds; or (3) the initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, operation, or organization for which funds or authority were not available during FY2014.

Prohibits funds made available by section 101 to DOD from being used to initiate certain multi-year procurements.

(Sec. 104) Prohibits any appropriations or funds made available by section 101 from being used to initiate or resume any project or activity which was not funded in FY2014.

(Sec. 106) Provides that funding appropriated by this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the following first occurs: (1) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity funded in this joint resolution, (2) enactment of the applicable FY2015 appropriations Act without any provision for the project or activity, or (3) December 11, 2014.

(Sec. 111) Provides that entitlements and mandatory payments with budget authority provided in FY2014 appropriations Acts and activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall continue at the rate necessary to maintain program levels under current law through December 11, 2014.

(Sec. 112) Provides that funding made available by this joint resolution for civilian personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may be apportioned up to the rate of operations necessary to avoid furloughs. Requires all necessary actions to reduce or defer non-personnel-related administrative expenses to be taken prior to using this authority.

(Sec. 113) Permits funds appropriated by this joint resolution to be obligated and expended notwithstanding specified statutory provisions restricting appropriations for foreign assistance, the Department of State, international broadcasting, and intelligence activities in the absence of prior authorizations.

(Sec. 114) Extends designations for Overseas Contingency Operations/ Global War on Terrorism and disaster relief to funds provided by this joint resolution that previously carried those designations.

Exempts the designated funds and specified funds provided to the Social Security Administration from the across-the-board reduction included in section 101.

Provides that amounts designated by this joint resolution for Overseas Contingency Operations/ Global War on Terrorism shall be available only after the President also designates the amounts and transmits the designation to Congress.

(Sec. 116) Provides funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA's) Commodity Assistance Program.

(Sec. 117) Permits the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to collect and spend user fees from outsourcing facilities that compound drugs.

(Sec. 118) Permits funds provided by this joint resolution to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for Procurement, Acquisition, and Construction to be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain the planned launch schedules for specified weather satellites.

(Sec. 119) Permits DOD to use specified Operation and Maintenance funds to clear unexploded ordnance from training ranges used by the Armed Forces in Afghanistan if the ranges are not transferred to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.

(Sec. 120) Extends specified DOD authorities through the earlier of December 11, 2014, or the enactment of an Act authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for military activities of DOD.

(Sec. 121) Permits funds provided by this joint resolution to the Department of Energy (DOE) for the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund to be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid disruption of continuing projects and activities.

(Sec. 122) Permits funds provided by this joint resolution to the DOE Defense Environment Cleanup account for the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in New Mexico to be obligated at the rate necessary for timely execution of activities necessary to restore and upgrade the repository.

(Sec. 123) Permits the District of Columbia to spend funds collected through local taxes and other non-federal sources.

(Sec. 124) Provides funding for salaries and expenses of the Office of Special Counsel.

(Sec. 125) Provides funding for general business loans authorized under the Small Business Act, and permits funds to be apportioned up to the rate necessary to accommodate increased demand for the loans.

(Sec. 126) Extends the Internet Tax Freedom Act through December 11, 2014.

(Sec. 127) Extends Department of Homeland Security (DHS) authority related to regulating security at high-risk chemical facilities through December 11, 2014.

(Sec. 128) Extends DHS authority to use certain procurement techniques for research and development projects through December 11, 2014.

(Sec. 129) Provides U.S. Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement with funding flexibility to sustain staffing levels, border security operations, and immigration enforcement activities.

(Sec. 130) Extends the authority for the recreational fee programs of the Department of the Interior and USDA through December 11, 2015.

(Sec. 131) Extends authorities related to the establishment of a memorial to Dwight D. Eisenhower through December 11, 2014. Provides that authority related to procurement for construction of the memorial shall not be in effect for the period covered by this joint resolution.

(Sec. 132) Extends authorities provided under the Social Security Act for the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) block grant program through December 11, 2014, excluding funding for studies and demonstrations. Specifies the funding level for the TANF contingency fund.

(Sec. 133) Excludes amounts appropriated in FY2014 for expansion of Early Head Start programs and for Early Head Start-Child Care Partnerships from the FY2015 base grant calculations for Head Start grantees.

(Sec. 134) Extends through FY2015 authorities related to funding for the Department of Health and Human Service's (HHS's) Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program.

(Sec. 135) Permits funding provided by this joint resolution to HHS for Refugee and Entrant Assistance to be apportioned up to the rate of operations necessary to maintain program operations at the FY2014 level.

(Sec. 136) Provides funds to HHS to support acceleration of countermeasures and advanced research and development for addressing the Ebola virus.

(Sec. 137) Provides funds and transfer authority to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to respond to the outbreak of the Ebola virus in Africa.

(Sec. 138) Permits specified funds provided by this joint resolution to the Department of Education and HHS to be obligated in the account and budget structure set forth in the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.

(Sec. 139) Rescinds specified unobligated balances of amounts that were provided in the Children Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009.

(Sec. 140) Extends through December 11, 2014, provisions related to the crossing of H-2B nonimmigrants working in the seafood industry.

(Sec. 141) Provides funding for DOD military construction.

(Sec. 142) Provides funding to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for the general operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits Administration.

(Sec. 143) Provides funding to the VA for the Office of Inspector General.

(Sec. 144) Extends the authorization for the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom through December 11, 2014.

(Sec. 145) Requires specified funds made available by this joint resolution to be obligated at a rate for operations as necessary to sustain assistance for Ukraine and independent states of the Former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe to counter external, regional aggression and influence.

(Sec. 146) Extends provisions prohibiting the use of funds for the enforcement of rules, regulations, policies, or guidelines related to an Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, OPIC's proposed modification to the Corporation's Environmental and Social Policy Statement relating to coal, and the Supplemental Guidelines for High Carbon Intensity Projects approved by the Export-Import Bank of the United States.

(Sec. 147) Extends the operating authority of the Export-Import Bank through June 30, 2015.

(Sec. 148) Extends through December 11, 2014, authorities related to insurance policies provided by the Department of Transportation (DOT) and air carrier liability for third party claims arising out of acts of terrorism.

(Sec. 149) Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide assistance to elements of the Syrian opposition and other Syrian groups for: (1) defending the Syrian people from attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL); (2) Protecting the United States, its friends and allies, and the Syrian people from the threats posed by terrorists in Syria; and (3) Promoting the conditions for a negotiated settlement to end the conflict in Syria.

Requires the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to submit a report to Congress not later than 15 days prior to providing assistance authorized under this section to recipients for the first time.

Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit progress reports no later than 90 days after the submission of the initial required report and every 90 days thereafter.

Permits DOD to submit a reprogramming or transfer request to the congressional defense committees to carry out activities authorized under this section.

Permits DOD to accept and retain contributions, including assistance in-kind, from foreign governments to carry out activities authorized by this section subject to specified restrictions. Prohibits funds accepted from being obligated until a reprogramming action is submitted to the congressional defense committees.

Provides that the authority included in this section shall continue through the earlier of December 11, 2014, or the enactment of an Act authorizing FY2015 appropriations for the military activities of DOD.