101st CONGRESS
1st Session
H.R. 3033
[Report No. 101-334, Parts I and II]
A BILL
To control the export, to countries pursuing or expanding the ability
to produce or deliver chemical or biological weapons, of items that would
assist such countries in acquiring such ability, to impose sanctions against
companies which have aided in the proliferation of chemical or biological
weapons, to provide for sanctions against countries which use or prepare
to use chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law,
and for other purposes.
November 7, 1989
Reported from the Committee on Foreign Affairs with an amendment
November 8, 1989
Reported from the Committee on Ways and Means with an amendment
HR 3033 RH
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
 H. R. 3033
[Report No. 101-334, Parts I and II]
To control the export, to countries pursuing or expanding the ability
to produce or deliver chemical or biological weapons, of items that would
assist such countries in acquiring such ability, to impose sanctions against
companies which have aided in the proliferation of chemical or biological
weapons, to provide for sanctions against countries which use or prepare
to use chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law,
and for other purposes.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
July 27, 1989
Mr. FASCELL (for himself, Mr. BROOMFIELD, Mr. GEJDENSON, Mr. ROTH, Mr. SOLARZ,
Mr. STUDDS, Mr. WOLPE, Mr. KOSTMAYER, Mr. BERMAN, Mr. LEVINE of California,
Mr. FEIGHAN, Mr. UDALL, Mr. CLARKE, Mr. JOHNSTON of Florida, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. FALEOMAVAEGA, Mr. BOSCO, Ms. SNOWE, Mr. HYDE, Mr. BEREUTER, Mr. MILLER of
Washington, Mr. GALLEGLY, Mr. HOUGHTON, Mr. GOSS, and Mr. GILMAN) introduced
the following bill; which was referred jointly to the Committees on Foreign
Affairs, Ways and Means, and Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs
November 7, 1989
Reported from the Committee on Foreign Affairs with an amendment
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
November 8, 1989
Reported from the Committee on Ways and Means with an amendment
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on July 27, 1989]
A BILL
To control the export, to countries pursuing or expanding the ability
to produce or deliver chemical or biological weapons, of items that would
assist such countries in acquiring such ability, to impose sanctions against
companies which have aided in the proliferation of chemical or biological
weapons, to provide for sanctions against countries which use or prepare
to use chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Chemical and Biological Warfare Elimination
  Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress makes the following findings and declarations:
  (1) It is a top priority to achieve a comprehensive global convention,
  with adequate provisions for verification, to prohibit the production and
  stockpiling of chemical weapons.
  (2) All countries should cease development, production, and stockpiling
  of chemical weapons on a verifiable basis at the earliest possible date.
  (3) The United States should cooperate in and lead multilateral efforts
  to stop the proliferation of chemical weapons. These efforts include the
  negotiations at the Geneva Conference on Disarmament for a worldwide ban
  on chemical weapons, controls on proliferation of chemical precursors
  through the Australia suppliers group, the Paris Conference of January
  1989 on chemical weapons use, and the conference on chemical weapons
  proliferation held in Canberra, Australia, in September 1989.
  (4) The United States should also impose the necessary controls on United
  States exports to prevent the proliferation of chemical and biological
  weapons and should discourage foreign companies from transferring similar
  items.
  (5) The United States should work with other countries or groups of countries
  to adopt progressively stronger measures (including appropriate sanctions)
  against countries that use chemical or biological weapons in violation of
  international law or develop, produce, or stockpile biological weapons. The
  President is urged to pursue multilateral sanctions pursuant to United
  Nations Security Council Resolution 620, which declared the intention of the
  Security Council to give immediate consideration to imposing `appropriate
  and effective' sanctions against any country which uses chemical weapons
  in violation of international law.
TITLE I--MEASURES TO PREVENT THE PROLIFERATION OF CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL
WEAPONS
SEC. 101. MULTILATERAL EFFORTS.
  It is the policy of the United States to seek multilaterally coordinated
  efforts with other countries to control the proliferation of chemical and
  biological weapons.
SEC. 102. EXPORT CONTROLS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The President shall--
  (1) use the authorities of the Arms Export Control Act to control the
  export of those defense articles and defense services, and
  (2) use the authorities of the Export Administration Act of 1979 to control
  the export of those goods and technologies,
that the President determines would assist a country in acquiring the
capability to develop, produce, stockpile, deliver, or use chemical or
biological weapons.
  (b) EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT- Section 6 of the Export Administration Act
  of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(q) CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS- A validated license shall be required
  under this section for the export of any goods or technology that the
  President determines would assist the recipient country in acquiring the
  capability to develop, produce, stockpile, deliver, or use chemical or
  biological weapons, unless the destination of such export is a country
  with whose government the United States has entered into bilateral or
  multilateral arrangements for the control of chemical or biological weapons
  related goods or technology.'.
SEC. 103. SANCTIONS AGAINST CERTAIN FOREIGN PERSONS.
  (a) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS-
  (1) FOREIGN PERSONS ON WHICH SANCTIONS IMPOSED- Except as provided
  in subsection (b)(2), the President shall impose either or both of the
  sanctions described in subsection (c) on a foreign person if the President
  determines that, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, that
  foreign person knowingly and substantially contributed to the efforts by
  a country described in paragraph (2) to use, develop, produce, stockpile,
  or otherwise acquire chemical or biological weapons.
  (2) FOREIGN COUNTRIES USING OR PREPARING TO USE CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL
  WEAPONS IN VIOLATION OF INTERNATIONAL LAW- Paragraph (1) applies if
  the President determines that, on or after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, the country referred to in paragraph (1) either used chemical
  or biological weapons in violation of international law or is making
  substantial preparations to do so.
  (3) PERIOD OF SANCTIONS- Except as otherwise provided in this section,
  sanctions shall be imposed under this section for a period of not less
  than 2 years.
  (b) CONSULTATIONS WITH AND ACTIONS BY GOVERNMENT OF JURISDICTION-
  (1) CONSULTATIONS- If the President makes the determinations described
  in subsection (a) with respect to a foreign person, the Congress urges
  the President to initiate consultations immediately with the government
  with primary jurisdiction over that foreign person with respect to the
  imposition of sanctions pursuant to this section.
  (2) ADEQUATE CORRECTIVE ACTION BY GOVERNMENT OF JURISDICTION- Sanctions
  are not required to be imposed on a foreign person pursuant to this section
  if the President determines that the government with primary jurisdiction
  over that foreign person has taken adequate corrective action with respect
  to the acts by that foreign person that are described in subsection (a).
  (3) REPORT TO CONGRESS- If the President does not impose sanctions on
  a foreign person under this section pursuant to a determination under
  paragraph (2), the President shall report to the Congress the basis for
  that determination. This report shall be submitted not later than 90 days
  after the President makes the determinations described in subsection (a).
  (c) SANCTIONS- The sanctions to be imposed on a foreign person pursuant
  to subsection (a) are the following, except as provided in subsection (e):
  (1) PROCUREMENT SANCTION- The United States Government shall not procure,
  or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any goods or services
  from that foreign person.
  (2) IMPORT SANCTIONS- The importation into the United States of products
  produced by that foreign person shall be prohibited.
  (d) TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS- A sanction imposed on a foreign person under
  this section shall cease to apply to that foreign person if the President
  determines and certifies to the Congress that there is reliable evidence that
  the foreign person has ceased all activities described in subsection (a).
  (e) EXCEPTIONS- The President shall not apply sanctions under subsection
  (c)--
  (1) in the case of procurement of defense articles or defense services--
  (A) under existing contracts or subcontracts, including the exercise of
  options for production quantities to satisfy United States operational
  military requirements;
  (B) if the President determines that the person or other entity to which the
  sanctions would otherwise be applied is a sole source supplier of the defense
  articles or services, that the defense articles or services are essential,
  and that alternative sources are not readily or reasonably available; or
  (C) if the President determines that such articles or services are essential
  to the national security under defense coproduction agreements;
  (2) to products or services provided under contracts entered into before the
  date on which the President publishes his intention to impose the sanctions;
  (3) to--
  (A) spare parts,
  (B) component parts, but not finished products, essential to United States
  products or production, or
  (C) routine servicing and maintenance of products, to the extent that
  alternative sources are not readily or reasonably available;
  (4) to information and technology; or
  (5) to medical or other humanitarian items.
  (f) WAIVER AND REPORT-
  (1) WAIVER- The President may waive the imposition of any sanction imposed
  on a foreign person under this section if the President determines that such
  waiver is important to the national security interests of the United States.
  (2) NOTIFICATION OF AND REPORT TO CONGRESS- In the event that the President
  decides to apply the waiver described in paragraph (1), the President
  shall so notify the Congress not less than 20 days before the waiver takes
  effect. Such notification shall include a report fully articulating the
  rationale and circumstances which led the President to apply the waiver.
  (g) OTHER REPORTS TO CONGRESS- In addition to the report under subsections
  (b)(3) and (f)(2), the President shall report to the Congress on all other
  determinations made under this section.
  (h) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `foreign person'
  means--
  (1) an individual who is not a citizen of the United States or an alien
  admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or
  (2) a corporation, partnership, or other entity which is created or
  organized under the laws of a foreign country or which has its principal
  place of business outside the United States.
TITLE II--MEASURES TO DETER THE USE OF CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS
SEC. 201. PRESIDENTIAL DETERMINATION CONCERNING CERTAIN COUNTRIES.
  The President shall determine whether any foreign country has, on or after
  the date of the enactment of this Act--
  (1) used chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law;
  (2) made substantial preparations to use chemical weapons in violation of
  international law; or
  (3) developed, produced, or stockpiled biological weapons in violation of
  international law.
SEC. 202. SANCTIONS AGAINST USE OF CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS IN VIOLATION
OF INTERNATIONAL LAW.
  (a) SANCTIONS- If, at any time, the President determines that a country
  has engaged in activities described in section 201(1), the President shall
  forthwith impose the sanctions set forth in at least 3 of the following
  paragraphs:
  (1) PROHIBITION ON ARMS SALES- The United States Government shall not,
  under the Arms Export Control Act, sell to that country any item on the
  United States Munitions List, or issue any license for the export to that
  country of any item on the United States Munitions List.
  (2) EXPORTS OF NATIONAL SECURITY-SENSITIVE GOODS AND TECHNOLOGY- The
  authorities of section 6 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 shall be
  used to prohibit the export to that country of any goods or technology on
  that part of the control list established under section 5(c)(1) of that Act.
  (3) FURTHER EXPORT RESTRICTIONS- The authorities of section 6 of the
  Export Administration Act of 1979 shall be used to prohibit or otherwise
  substantially restrict exports to that country of goods and technology
  (excluding agricultural commodities and products).
  (4) IMPORT RESTRICTIONS- Restrictions shall be imposed on the importation
  into the United States of articles (which may include petroleum or any
  petroleum product) that are the growth, product, or manufacture of that
  country.
  (5) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE- No assistance shall be provided to that country
  under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export Control Act
  other than assistance which is intended to benefit the people of that
  country directly and is not channeled through governmental agencies or
  entities of that country.
  (6) MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANK ASSISTANCE- The United States shall
  oppose any loan or financial or technical assistance to that country by
  international financial institutions in accordance with section 701 of
  the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262d).
  (7) DENIAL OF CREDIT OR OTHER FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- The United States shall
  deny to that country any credit or financial assistance by any department,
  agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government.
  (8) DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS- The President shall use his constitutional
  authorities to downgrade or suspend diplomatic relations between the United
  States and that country.
  (b) DETERMINATION TO BE REPORTED TO CONGRESS- Any determination under
  subsection (a) shall be reported promptly to the Congress.
  (c) ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS IF CERTAIN CONDITIONS NOT MET- Unless, within 3
  months after making a determination under subsection (a) with respect to a
  country, the President determines and certifies in writing to the Congress--
  (1) that such country is no longer conducting any activity described in
  section 201(1),
  (2) that the government of such country has provided reliable assurances
  that the country will not in the future conduct any activity described in
  section 201(1), and
  (3) that--
  (A) such government is willing to allow on-site inspections by United Nations
  observers or other internationally recognized, impartial observers, or
  (B) other reliable means exist,
to ensure that the country is not using chemical or biological weapons in
violation of international law,
then the President, after consultation with the Congress, shall impose on
that country at least 1 sanction set forth in paragraphs (1) through (8)
of subsection (a) which has not previously been imposed on that country
under subsection (a).
  (d) CONDITIONS FOR LIFTING SANCTIONS- The President may terminate any
  sanction imposed on a country under subsection (a) or (c) if the President
  determines and so certifies in writing to the Congress--
  (1) that the country is no longer conducting any activity described in
  section 201(1); and
  (2) that the conditions described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection
  (c) have been met.
  (e) WAIVER AND REPORT-
  (1) PRESIDENTIAL WAIVER- The President may waive the imposition of any
  sanction imposed under subsection (a) or (c) if the President determines
  that such waiver is important to the national security interests of the
  United States.
  (2) REPORT- In the event that the President decides to apply the waiver
  described in paragraph (1), the President shall so notify the Congress not
  less than 20 days before the waiver takes effect. Such notification shall
  include a report fully articulating the rationale and circumstances which
  led the President to apply the waiver.
SEC. 203. SANCTIONS AGAINST OTHER VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONAL LAW WITH
RESPECT TO CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS.
  (a) SANCTIONS- If, at any time, the President determines that a country
  has engaged in activities described in section 201(2) or (3), the President
  may impose any sanction described in section 202(a).
  (b) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS TO BE REPORTED TO CONGRESS- The President
  shall report promptly to the Congress the imposition of any sanction under
  subsection (a).
SEC. 204. CONTRACT SANCTITY.
  In imposing any sanction under this title, the President may not prohibit
  or curtail any transaction--
  (1) in performance of any contract or agreement entered into before the
  date on which the President reports to the Congress the imposition of the
  sanction, or
  (2) under a validated license or other authorization issued under the
  Export Administration Act of 1979 or other provision of law,
unless and until the President determines and certifies to the Congress that--
  (A) a breach of the peace poses a serious and direct threat to the strategic
  interest of the United States,
  (B) the prohibition or curtailment of such contracts, agreements, licenses,
  or authorizations will be instrumental in remedying the situation posing
  the direct threat, and
  (C) the sanction will continue only so long as the direct threat persists.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. PRESIDENTIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Not later than 90 days after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, and every 12 months thereafter, the President shall
  transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President
  pro tempore of the Senate a report which shall include--
  (1) a description of the actions taken to carry out this Act and the
  amendment made by section 102(b) of this Act;
  (2) a description of the current efforts of foreign countries to acquire
  equipment, materials, or technology to develop, produce, or use chemical
  or biological weapons, together with an assessment of the current and
  likely future capabilities of such countries to develop, produce, or use
  such weapons;
  (3) a description of the use of chemical weapons in violation of
  international law, of substantial preparations to do so, and of the
  development, production, stockpiling, or use of biological weapons by
  foreign countries; and
  (4) a description of the extent to which foreign persons or governments have
  knowingly and substantially assisted third countries to acquire equipment,
  material, or technology intended to develop, produce, or use chemical or
  biological weapons.
  (b) PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION- To the extent practicable,
  reports submitted under subsection (a) or any other provision of this Act
  should be based on unclassified information. Portions of such reports may
  be classified.