--H.R.2507--
H.R.2507
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend the programs of
the National Institutes of Health, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `National Institutes of Health
 Revitalization Amendments of 1992'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING TITLE IV OF PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT
Subtitle A--Research Freedom
Part I--Review of Proposals for Biomedical and Behavioral Research
Sec. 101. Establishment of certain provisions regarding research conducted
or supported by National Institutes of Health.
Part II--Research on Transplantation of Fetal Tissue
Sec. 111. Establishment of authorities.
Sec. 112. Purchase of human fetal tissue; solicitation or acceptance of
tissue as directed donation for use in transplantation.
Sec. 113. Nullification of moratorium.
Sec. 114. Report by General Accounting Office on adequacy of requirements.
Part III--Miscellaneous Repeals
Sec. 121. Repeals.
Subtitle B--Clinical Research Equity Regarding Women and Minorities
Part I--Women and Minorities as Subjects in Clinical Research
Sec. 131. Requirement of inclusion in research.
Sec. 132. Peer review.
Sec. 133. Applicability.
Part II--Office of Research on Women's Health
Sec. 141. Establishment.
Subtitle C--Scientific Integrity
Sec. 151. Establishment of Office of Scientific Integrity.
Sec. 152. Commission on Scientific Integrity.
Sec. 153. Protection of whistleblowers.
Sec. 154. Requirement of regulations regarding protection against financial
conflicts of interest in certain projects of research.
Sec. 155. Effective dates.
TITLE II--PROTECTION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
Sec. 201. Protection of facilities assisted under Public Health Service Act.
Sec. 202. Conforming amendments.
TITLE III--NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH IN GENERAL
Sec. 301. Discretionary fund of Director of National Institutes of Health.
Sec. 302. Health promotion research dissemination.
Sec. 303. Programs for increased support regarding certain States and
researchers.
Sec. 304. Children's vaccine initiative.
Sec. 305. Plan for use of animals in research.
Sec. 306. Increased participation of women and disadvantaged individuals in
fields of biomedical and behavioral research.
Sec. 307. Requirements regarding surveys of sexual behavior.
Sec. 308. Miscellaneous provisions.
TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING NATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTES
Sec. 401. Appointment and authority of Directors of national research
institutes.
Sec. 402. Program of research on osteoporosis, Paget's disease, and related
disorders.
Sec. 403. Establishment of interagency program for trauma research.
TITLE V--NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE
Sec. 501. Expansion and intensification of activities regarding breast cancer.
Sec. 502. Expansion and intensification of activities regarding prostate
cancer.
Sec. 503. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VI--NATIONAL HEART, LUNG, AND BLOOD INSTITUTE
Sec. 601. Education and training.
Sec. 602. Centers for the study of pediatric cardiovascular diseases.
Sec. 603. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VII--NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DIABETES AND DIGESTIVE AND KIDNEY DISEASES
Sec. 701. Provisions regarding nutritional disorders.
TITLE VIII--NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON ARTHRITIS AND MUSCULOSKELETAL AND SKIN
DISEASES
Sec. 801. Juvenile arthritis.
TITLE IX--NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING
Sec. 901. Alzheimer's disease registry.
Sec. 902. Aging processes regarding women.
Sec. 903. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 904. Conforming amendment.
TITLE X--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES
Sec. 1001. Tropical diseases.
Sec. 1002. Chronic fatigue syndrome.
TITLE XI--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
Subtitle A--Research Centers With Respect to Contraception and Research
Centers With Respect to Infertility
Sec. 1101. Grants and contracts for research centers.
Sec. 1102. Loan repayment program for research with respect to contraception
and infertility.
Subtitle B--Program Regarding Obstetrics and Gynecology
Sec. 1111. Establishment of program.
Subtitle C--Child Health Research Centers
Sec. 1121. Establishment of centers.
Subtitle D--Study Regarding Adolescent Health.
Sec. 1131. Prospective longitudinal study.
TITLE XII--NATIONAL EYE INSTITUTE
Sec. 1201. Clinical research on diabetes eye care.
TITLE XIII--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS AND STROKE
Sec. 1301. Research on multiple sclerosis.
TITLE XIV--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES
Sec. 1401. Applied Toxicological Research and Testing Program.
TITLE XV--NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE
Subtitle A--General Provisions
Sec. 1501. Additional authorities.
Sec. 1502. Authorization of appropriations for general program.
Subtitle B--Financial Assistance
Sec. 1511. Establishment of program of grants for development of education
technologies.
Sec. 1512. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle C--National Center for Biotechnology Information
Sec. 1521. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle D--National Information Center on Health Services Research and
Health Care Technology
Sec. 1531. Establishment of Center.
Sec. 1532. Conforming provisions.
TITLE XVI--OTHER AGENCIES OF NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
Subtitle A--Division of Research Resources
Sec. 1601. Redesignation of Division as National Center for Research Resources.
Sec. 1602. Biomedical and behavioral research facilities.
Sec. 1603. Construction program for national primate research center.
Subtitle B--National Center for Nursing Research
Sec. 1611. Redesignation of National Center for Nursing Research as National
Institute of Nursing Research.
Subtitle C--National Center for Human Genome Research
Sec. 1621. Purpose of Center.
TITLE XVII--AWARDS AND TRAINING
Subtitle A--National Research Service Awards
Sec. 1701. Requirement regarding women and individuals from disadvantaged
backgrounds.
Subtitle B--Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
Sec. 1711. Loan repayment program.
Subtitle C--Loan Repayment for Research Generally
Sec. 1721. Establishment of program.
Subtitle D--Scholarship and Loan Repayment Programs Regarding Professional
Skills Needed by National Institutes of Health
Sec. 1731. Establishment of programs.
Sec. 1732. Funding.
Subtitle E--Funding for Awards and Training Generally
Sec. 1741. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE XVIII--NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
Sec. 1801. Miscellaneous provisions.
TITLE XIX--RESTORATION AND RENOVATION OF FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
Sec. 1901. Acquisition of land and facilities.
Sec. 1902. Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center.
TITLE XX--RESEARCH WITH RESPECT TO ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME
Sec. 2001. Revision and extension of various programs.
TITLE XXI--CERTAIN AUTHORITIES OF CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
Sec. 2101. Prevention of prostate cancer.
Sec. 2102. National program of cancer registries.
Sec. 2103. Traumatic brain injury.
TITLE XXII--STUDIES
Sec. 2201. Acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
Sec. 2202. Annual report concerning leading causes of death.
Sec. 2203. Malnutrition in the elderly.
Sec. 2204. Behavioral factors study.
Sec. 2205. Relationship between the consumption of legal and illegal drugs.
Sec. 2206. Research activities on chronic fatigue syndrome.
Sec. 2207. Report on medical uses of biological agents in development of
defenses against biological warfare.
Sec. 2208. Evaluation of employee-transported contaminant releases.
Sec. 2209. Personnel study of recruitment, retention and turnover.
Sec. 2210. Procurement.
TITLE XXIII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 2301. Designation of Senior Biomedical Research Service in honor of
Silvio Conte, and limitation on number of members.
Sec. 2302. Technical corrections.
Sec. 2303. Prohibition against SHARP adult sex survey and the American
teenage sex survey.
Sec. 2304. Biennial report on carcinogens.
Sec. 2305. National commission on sleep disorders research.
TITLE XXIV--EFFECTIVE DATE
Sec. 2401. Effective date.
TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING TITLE IV OF PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT
Subtitle A--Research Freedom
PART I--REVIEW OF PROPOSALS FOR BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH
SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS REGARDING RESEARCH CONDUCTED
OR SUPPORTED BY NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289 et
 seq.) is amended by inserting after section 492 the following new section:
`CERTAIN PROVISIONS REGARDING REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PROPOSALS FOR RESEARCH
 `SEC. 492A. (a) REVIEW AS PRECONDITION TO RESEARCH-
 `(1) PROTECTION OF HUMAN RESEARCH SUBJECTS-
 `(A) In the case of any application submitted to the Secretary for
 financial assistance to conduct research, the Secretary may not approve
 or fund any application that is subject to review under section 491(a) by
 an Institutional Review Board unless the application has undergone review
 in accordance with such section and has been recommended for approval by
 a majority of the members of the Board conducting such review.
 `(B) In the case of research that is subject to review under procedures
 established by the Secretary for the protection of human subjects in clinical
 research conducted by the National Institutes of Health, the Secretary
 may not authorize the conduct of the research unless the research has,
 pursuant to such procedures, been recommended for approval.
 `(2) PEER REVIEW- In the case of any application submitted to the Secretary
 for financial assistance to conduct research, the Secretary may not approve
 or fund any application that is subject to technical and scientific peer
 review under section 492(a) unless the application has undergone peer review
 in accordance with such section and has been recommended for approval by
 a majority of the members of the entity conducting such review.
 `(b) ETHICAL REVIEW OF RESEARCH-
 `(1) PROCEDURES REGARDING WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS- If research has been
 recommended for approval for purposes of subsection (a), the Secretary may
 not withhold funding for the research on ethical grounds unless--
 `(A) the Secretary convenes an advisory board in accordance with paragraph
 (4) to study the ethical implications of the research; and
 `(B) the majority of the advisory board recommends that, on ethical grounds,
 the Secretary withhold funds for the research.
 `(2) APPLICABILITY- The limitation established in paragraph (1) regarding the
 authority to withhold funds on ethical grounds shall apply without regard
 to whether the withholding of funds is characterized as a disapproval,
 a moratorium, a prohibition, or other description.
 `(3) PRELIMINARY MATTERS REGARDING USE OF PROCEDURES-
 `(A) If the Secretary makes a determination that an advisory board should
 be convened for purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, through a
 statement published in the Federal Register, announce the intention of the
 Secretary to convene such a board.
 `(B) A statement issued under subparagraph (A) shall include a request that
 interested individuals submit to the Secretary recommendations specifying
 the particular individuals who should be appointed to the advisory board
 involved. The Secretary shall consider such recommendations in making
 appointments to the board.
 `(C) The Secretary may not make appointments to an advisory board under
 paragraph (1) until the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the
 date on which the statement required in subparagraph (A) is made with
 respect to the board.
 `(4) ETHICS ADVISORY BOARDS-
 `(A) Any advisory board convened for purposes of paragraph (1) shall be known
 as an ethics advisory board (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as an
 `ethics board').
 `(B)(i) An ethics board shall advise, consult with, and make recommendations
 to the Secretary regarding the ethics of the project of biomedical or
 behavioral research with respect to which the board has been convened.
 `(ii) Not later than 180 days after the date on which the statement required
 in paragraph (3)(A) is made with respect to an ethics board, the board shall
 submit to the Secretary, and to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
 the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources
 of the Senate, a report describing the findings of the board regarding the
 project of research involved.
 `(C) An ethics board shall be composed of no fewer than 14, and no more than
 20, individuals who are not officers or employees of the United States. The
 Secretary shall make appointments to the board from among individuals with
 special qualifications and competence to provide advice and recommendations
 regarding ethical matters in biomedical and behavioral research. Of the
 members of the board--
 `(i) no fewer than 1 shall be an attorney;
 `(ii) no fewer than 1 shall be an ethicist;
 `(iii) no fewer than 1 shall be a practicing physician;
 `(iv) no fewer than 1 shall be a theologian; and
 `(v) no fewer than one-third, and no more than one-half, shall be scientists
 with substantial accomplishments in biomedical or behavioral research.
 `(D) The term of service as a member of an ethics board shall be for the
 life of the board. If such a member does not serve the full term of such
 service, the individual appointed to fill the resulting vacancy shall be
 appointed for the remainder of the term of the predecessor of the individual.
 `(E) A member of an ethics board shall be subject to removal from the
 board by the Secretary for neglect of duty or malfeasance or for other good
 cause shown.
 `(F) The Secretary shall designate an individual from among the members of
 an ethics board to serve as the chair of the board.
 `(G) In carrying out subparagraph (B)(i) with respect to a project of
 research, an ethics board shall conduct inquiries and hold public hearings.
 `(H) With respect to information relevant to the duties described
 in subparagraph (B)(i), an ethics board shall have access to all such
 information possessed by the Department of Health and Human Services,
 or available to the Secretary from other agencies.
 `(I) Members of an ethics board shall receive compensation for each day
 engaged in carrying out the duties of the board, including time engaged
 in traveling for purposes of such duties. Such compensation may not be
 provided in an amount in excess of the maximum rate of basic pay payable
 for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
 `(J) The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institutes
 of Health, shall provide to each ethics board such staff and other assistance
 as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the board.
 `(K) An ethics board shall terminate 30 days after the date on which the
 report required in subparagraph (B)(ii) is submitted to the Secretary and
 the congressional committees specified in such subparagraph.'.
PART II--RESEARCH ON TRANSPLANTATION OF FETAL TISSUE
SEC. 111. ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITIES.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289 et
 seq.) is amended by inserting after section 498 the following new section:
`RESEARCH ON TRANSPLANTATION OF FETAL TISSUE
 `SEC. 498A. (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may conduct or support research on the
 transplantation of human fetal tissue for therapeutic purposes.
 `(2) SOURCE OF TISSUE- Human fetal tissue may be used in research carried
 out under paragraph (1) regardless of whether the tissue is obtained pursuant
 to a spontaneous or induced abortion or pursuant to a stillbirth.
 `(b) INFORMED CONSENT OF DONOR-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In research carried out under subsection (a), human fetal
 tissue may be used only if the woman providing the tissue makes a statement,
 made in writing and signed by the woman, declaring that--
 `(A) the woman donates the fetal tissue for use in research described in
 subsection (a);
 `(B) the donation is made without any restriction regarding the identity of
 individuals who may be the recipients of transplantations of the tissue; and
 `(C) the woman has not been informed of the identity of any such individuals.
 `(2) ADDITIONAL STATEMENT- In research carried out under subsection (a),
 human fetal tissue may be used only if the attending physician with respect
 to obtaining the tissue from the woman involved makes a statement, made in
 writing and signed by the physician, declaring that--
 `(A) in the case of tissue obtained pursuant to an induced abortion--
 `(i) the consent of the woman for the abortion was obtained prior to
 requesting or obtaining consent for the tissue to be used in such research;
 and
 `(ii) no alteration of the timing, method, or procedures used to terminate
 the pregnancy was made solely for the purposes of obtaining the tissue;
 `(B) the tissue has been donated by the woman in accordance with paragraph
 (1); and
 `(C) full disclosure has been provided to the woman with regard to--
 `(i) such physician's interest, if any, in the research to be conducted
 with the tissue; and
 `(ii) any known medical risks to the woman or risks to her privacy that might
 be associated with the donation of the tissue and that are in addition to
 risks of such type that are associated with the woman's medical care.
 `(c) INFORMED CONSENT OF RESEARCHER AND DONEE- In research carried out under
 subsection (a), human fetal tissue may be used only if the individual with
 the principal responsibility for conducting the research involved makes
 a statement, made in writing and signed by the individual, declaring that
 the individual--
 `(1) is aware that--
 `(A) the tissue is human fetal tissue;
 `(B) the tissue may have been obtained pursuant to a spontaneous or induced
 abortion or subsequent to a stillbirth; and
 `(C) the tissue was donated for research purposes;
 `(2) has provided such information to other individuals with responsibilities
 regarding the research;
 `(3) will require, prior to obtaining the consent of an individual to be
 a recipient of a transplantation of the tissue, written acknowledgment of
 receipt of such information by such recipient; and
 `(4) has had no part in any decisions as to the timing, method, or procedures
 used to terminate the pregnancy made solely for the purposes of the research.
 `(d) AVAILABILITY OF STATEMENTS FOR AUDIT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In research carried out under subsection (a), human fetal
 tissue may be used only if the head of the agency or other entity conducting
 the research involved certifies to the Secretary that the statements required
 under subsections (b)(2) and (c) will be available for audit by the Secretary.
 `(2) CONFIDENTIALITY OF AUDIT- Any audit conducted by the Secretary pursuant
 to paragraph (1) shall be conducted in a confidential manner to protect the
 privacy rights of the individuals and entities involved in such research,
 including such individuals and entities involved in the donation, transfer,
 receipt, or transplantation of human fetal tissue. With respect to any
 material or information obtained pursuant to such audit, the Secretary shall--
 `(A) use such material or information only for the purposes of verifying
 compliance with the requirements of this section;
 `(B) not disclose or publish such material or information, except where
 required by Federal law, in which case such material or information shall be
 coded in a manner such that the identities of such individuals and entities
 are protected; and
 `(C) not maintain such material or information after completion of such
 audit, except where necessary for the purposes of such audit.
 `(e) APPLICABILITY OF STATE AND LOCAL LAW-
 `(1) RESEARCH CONDUCTED BY RECIPIENTS OF ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may not
 provide support for research under subsection (a) unless the applicant
 for the financial assistance involved agrees to conduct the research in
 accordance with applicable State and local law.
 `(2) RESEARCH CONDUCTED BY SECRETARY- The Secretary may conduct research
 under subsection (a) only in accordance with applicable State and local law.
 `(f) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `human fetal tissue'
 means tissue or cells obtained from a dead human embryo or fetus after a
 spontaneous or induced abortion, or after a stillbirth.'.
SEC. 112. PURCHASE OF HUMAN FETAL TISSUE; SOLICITATION OR ACCEPTANCE OF
TISSUE AS DIRECTED DONATION FOR USE IN TRANSPLANTATION.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section
 111 of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 498A the following
 new section:
`PROHIBITIONS REGARDING HUMAN FETAL TISSUE
 `SEC. 498B. (a) PURCHASE OF TISSUE- It shall be unlawful for any person to
 knowingly acquire, receive, or otherwise transfer any human fetal tissue
 for valuable consideration if the transfer affects interstate commerce.
 `(b) SOLICITATION OR ACCEPTANCE OF TISSUE AS DIRECTED DONATION FOR USE
 IN TRANSPLANTATION- It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or
 knowingly acquire, receive, or accept a donation of human fetal tissue for
 the purpose of transplantation of such tissue into another person if the
 donation affects interstate commerce, the tissue will be or is obtained
 pursuant to an induced abortion, and--
 `(1) the donation will be or is made pursuant to a promise to the donating
 individual that the donated tissue will be transplanted into a recipient
 specified by such individual;
 `(2) the donated tissue will be transplanted into a relative of the donating
 individual; or
 `(3) the person who solicits or knowingly acquires, receives, or  accepts
 the donation has provided valuable consideration for the costs associated
 with such abortion.
 `(c) CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any person who violates subsection (a) or (b) shall be
 fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, subject to paragraph
 (2), or imprisoned for not more than 10 years, or both.
 `(2) PENALTIES APPLICABLE TO PERSONS RECEIVING CONSIDERATION- With respect
 to the imposition of a fine under paragraph (1), if the person involved
 violates subsection (a) or (b)(3), a fine shall be imposed in an amount
 not less than twice the amount of the valuable consideration received.
 `(d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `human fetal tissue' has the meaning given such term in
 section 498A(f).
 `(2) The term `interstate commerce' has the meaning given such term in
 section 201(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
 `(3) The term `valuable consideration' does not include reasonable payments
 associated with the transportation, implantation, processing, preservation,
 quality control, or storage of human fetal tissue.'.
SEC. 113. NULLIFICATION OF MORATORIUM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (c), no official of the
 executive branch may impose a policy that the Department of Health and
 Human Services is prohibited from conducting or supporting any research on
 the transplantation of human fetal tissue for therapeutic purposes. Such
 research shall be carried out in accordance with section 498A of the Public
 Health Service Act (as added by section 111 of this Act), without regard
 to any such policy that may have been in effect prior to the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
 (b) Prohibition Against Withholding of Funds in Cases of Technical and
 Scientific Merit-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In the case of any proposal for research on the
 transplantation of human fetal tissue for therapeutic purposes, the Secretary
 of Health and Human Services may not withhold funds for the research if--
 (A) the research has been approved for purposes of section 492A(a) of the
 Public Health Service Act (as added by section 101 of this Act);
 (B) the research will be carried out in accordance with section 498A of
 such Act (as added by section 111 of this Act); and
 (C) there are reasonable assurances that the research will not utilize any
 human fetal tissue that has been obtained in violation of section 498B(a)
 of such Act (as added by section 112 of this Act).
 (2) STANDING APPROVAL REGARDING ETHICAL STATUS- In the case of any proposal
 for research on the transplantation of human fetal tissue for therapeutic
 purposes, the issuance in December 1988 of the Report of the Human Fetal
 Tissue Transplantation Research Panel shall be deemed to be a report--
 (A) issued by an ethics advisory board pursuant to section 492A(b)(4)(B)(ii)
 of the Public Health Service Act (as added by section 101 of this Act); and
 (B) finding that there are no ethical grounds for withholding funds for
 the research.
 (c) AUTHORITY FOR WITHHOLDING FUNDS FROM RESEARCH- In the case of any research
 on the transplantation of human fetal tissue for therapeutic purposes, the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services may withhold funds for the research
 if any of the conditions specified in any of subparagraphs (A) through (C)
 of subsection (b)(1) are not met with respect to the research.
 (d) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `human fetal tissue'
 has the meaning given such term in section 498A(f) of the Public Health
 Service Act (as added by section 111 of this Act).
SEC. 114. REPORT BY GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE ON ADEQUACY OF REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- With respect to research on the transplantation of human
 fetal tissue for therapeutic purposes, the Comptroller General of the United
 States shall conduct an audit for the purpose of determining--
 (1) whether and to what extent such research conducted or supported by the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services has been conducted in accordance
 with section 498A of the Public Health Service Act (as added by section
 111 of this Act); and
 (2) whether and to what extent there have been violations of section 498B
 of such Act (as added by section 112 of this Act).
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall complete the
 audit required in subsection (a) and submit to the Committee on Energy and
 Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate, a report describing the findings made
 pursuant to the audit.
PART III--MISCELLANEOUS REPEALS
SEC. 121. REPEALS.
 (a) CERTAIN BIOMEDICAL ETHICS BOARD- Title III of the Public Health Service
 Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.), as amended by section 101(a) of Public Law
 101-616, is amended--
 (1) by striking part J; and
 (2) by redesignating parts K through M as parts J through L, respectively.
 (b) OTHER REPEALS- Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 289 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 498, by striking subsection (c); and
 (2) by striking section 499.
Subtitle B--Clinical Research Equity Regarding Women and Minorities
PART I--WOMEN AND MINORITIES AS SUBJECTS IN CLINICAL RESEARCH
SEC. 131. REQUIREMENT OF INCLUSION IN RESEARCH.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section
 101 of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 492A the following
 new section:
`INCLUSION OF WOMEN AND MINORITIES IN CLINICAL RESEARCH
 `SEC. 492B. (a) In conducting or supporting clinical research for purposes
 of this title, the Director of NIH shall, subject to subsection (b),
 ensure that--
 `(1) women are included as subjects in each project of such research; and
 `(2) members of minority groups are included as subjects in such research.
 `(b) The requirement established in subsection (a) regarding women and members
 of minority groups shall not apply to a project of clinical research if
 the inclusion, as subjects in the project, of women and members of minority
 groups, respectively--
 `(1) is inappropriate with respect to the health of the subjects;
 `(2) is inappropriate with respect to the purpose of the research; or
 `(3) is inappropriate under such other circumstances as the Director of
 NIH may designate.
 `(c) In the case of any project of clinical research in which women or members
 of minority groups will under subsection (a) be included as subjects in the
 research, the Director of NIH shall ensure that the project is designed and
 carried out in a manner sufficient to provide for a valid analysis of whether
 the variables being tested in the research affect women or members of minority
 groups, as the case may be, differently than other subjects in the research.
 `(d)(1) The Director of NIH, in consultation with the Director of the Office
 of Research on Women's Health, shall establish guidelines regarding--
 `(A) the circumstances under which the inclusion of women and minorities
 in clinical research is inappropriate for purposes of subsection (b);
 `(B) the manner in which projects of clinical research are required to
 be designed and carried out for purposes of subsection (c), including
 a specification of the circumstances in which the requirement of such
 subsection does not apply on the basis of impracticability; and
 `(C) the conduct of outreach programs for the recruitment of women and
 members of minority groups as subjects in such research.
 `(2) The guidelines established under paragraph (1)--
 `(A) may not provide that the costs of including women and minorities in
 clinical research are a permissible consideration regarding the circumstances
 described in subparagraph (A) of such paragraph; and
 `(B) may provide that such circumstances include circumstances in which
 there are scientific reasons for believing that the variables proposed to
 be studied do not affect women or minorities differently than other subjects
 in the research.
 `(3) The guidelines required in paragraph (1) shall be established and
 published in the Federal Register not later than July 1, 1992.
 `(4) For fiscal year 1993 and subsequent fiscal years, the Director of NIH may
 not approve any proposal of clinical research to be conducted or supported
 by any agency of the National Institutes of Health unless the proposal
 specifies the manner in which the research will comply with subsection (a).
 `(e) The advisory council of each national research institute shall annually
 submit to the Director of NIH and the Director of the institute involved a
 report describing the manner in which the agency has complied with subsection
 (a).'.
SEC. 132. PEER REVIEW.
 Section 492 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289a) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) In technical and scientific peer review under this section of
 proposals for clinical research, the consideration of any such proposal
 (including the initial consideration) shall, except as provided in paragraph
 (2), include an evaluation of the technical and scientific merit of the
 proposal regarding compliance with section 492B(a).
 `(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any proposal for clinical research
 that, pursuant to subsection (b) of section 492B, is not subject to the
 requirement of subsection (a) of such section regarding the inclusion of
 women and members of minority groups as subjects in clinical research.'.
SEC. 133. APPLICABILITY.
 Section 492B of the Public Health Service Act, as added by section 131 of
 this Act, shall not apply with respect to projects of clinical research for
 which initial funding was provided prior to the date of the enactment of this
 Act. With respect to the inclusion of women and minorities as subjects in
 clinical research conducted or supported by the National Institutes of Health,
 any policies of the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding such
 inclusion that are in effect on the day before the date of the enactment
 of this Act shall continue to apply to the projects referred to in the
 preceding sentence. Any such policies may apply for fiscal year 1993 and
 subsequent fiscal years to the extent not inconsistent with such section 492B.
PART II--OFFICE OF RESEARCH ON WOMEN'S HEALTH
SEC. 141. ESTABLISHMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by
 section 2 of Public Law 101-613, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating section 486 as section 485A;
 (2) by redesignating parts F through H as parts G through I, respectively; and
 (3) by inserting after part E the following new part:
`Part F--Research on Women's Health
`SEC. 486. OFFICE OF RESEARCH ON WOMEN'S HEALTH.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established within the Office of the Director
 of NIH an office to be known as the Office of Research on Women's Health
 (in this part referred to as the `Office'). The Office shall be headed by
 a director, who shall be appointed by the Director of NIH.
 `(b) PURPOSE- The Director of the Office shall--
 `(1) identify projects of research on women's health that should be conducted
 or supported by the national research institutes;
 `(2) identify multidisciplinary research relating to research on women's
 health that should be so conducted or supported;
 `(3) carry out paragraphs (1) and (2) with respect to the aging process in
 women, with priority given to menopause;
 `(4) promote coordination and collaboration among entities conducting
 research identified under any of paragraphs (1) through (3);
 `(5) encourage the conduct of such research by entities receiving funds
 from the national research institutes;
 `(6) recommend an agenda for conducting and supporting such research;
 `(7) promote the sufficient allocation of the resources of the national
 research institutes for conducting and supporting such research;
 `(8) assist in the administration of section 492B with respect to the
 inclusion of women as subjects in clinical research; and
 `(9) prepare the report required in section 486B.
 `(c) COORDINATING COMMITTEE-
 `(1) In carrying out subsection (b), the Director of the Office shall
 establish a committee to be known as the Coordinating Committee on Research on
 Women's Health (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the `Coordinating
 Committee').
 `(2) The Coordinating Committee shall be composed of the Directors of the
 national research institutes (or the designees of the Directors).
 `(3)  The Director of the Office shall serve as the chair of the Coordinating
 Committee.
 `(4) With respect to research on women's health, the Coordinating Committee
 shall assist the Director of the Office in--
 `(A) identifying the need for such research, and making an estimate each
 fiscal year of the funds needed to adequately support the research;
 `(B) identifying needs regarding the coordination of research activities,
 including intramural and extramural multidisciplinary activities;
 `(C) supporting the development of methodologies to determine the
 circumstances in which obtaining data specific to women (including data
 relating to the age of women and the membership of women in ethnic or
 racial groups) is an appropriate function of clinical trials of treatments
 and therapies;
 `(D) supporting the development and expansion of clinical trials of treatments
 and therapies for which obtaining such data has been determined to be an
 appropriate function; and
 `(E) encouraging the national research institutes to conduct and support
 such research, including such clinical trials.
 `(d) ADVISORY COMMITTEE-
 `(1) In carrying out subsection (b), the Director of the Office shall
 establish an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on
 Research on Women's Health (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the
 `Advisory Committee').
 `(2) The Advisory Committee shall be composed of no fewer than 12, and
 not more than 18 individuals, who are not officers or employees of the
 Federal Government. The Director of the Office shall make appointments to
 the Advisory Committee from among physicians, practitioners, scientists, and
 other health professionals, whose clinical practice, research specialization,
 or professional expertise includes a significant focus on research on women's
 health. A majority of the members of the Advisory Committee shall be women.
 `(3) The Director of the Office shall serve as the chair of the Advisory
 Committee.
 `(4) The Advisory Committee shall--
 `(A) advise the Director of the Office on appropriate research activities
 to be undertaken by the national research institutes with respect to--
 `(i) research on women's health;
 `(ii) research on gender differences in clinical drug trials, including
 responses to pharmacological drugs;
 `(iii) research on gender differences in disease etiology, course, and
 treatment;
 `(iv) research on obstetrical and gynecological health conditions, diseases,
 and treatments; and
 `(v) research on women's health conditions which require a multidisciplinary
 approach;
 `(B) report to the Director of the Office on such research;
 `(C) provide recommendations to such Director regarding activities of the
 Office (including recommendations on the development of the methodologies
 described in subsection (c)(4)(C) and recommendations on priorities in
 carrying out research described in subparagraph (A)); and
 `(D) assist in monitoring compliance with section 492B regarding the
 inclusion of women in clinical research.
 `(5)(A) The Advisory Committee shall prepare a biennial report describing
 the activities of the Committee, including findings made by the Committee
 regarding--
 `(i) compliance with section 492B;
 `(ii) the extent of expenditures made for research on women's health by
 the agencies of the National Institutes of Health; and
 `(iii) the level of funding needed for such research.
 `(B) The report required in subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the
 Director of NIH for inclusion in the report required in section 403.
 `(e) REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN AMONG RESEARCHERS- The Secretary, acting through
 the Assistant Secretary for Personnel and in collaboration with the Director
 of the Office, shall determine the extent to which women are represented
 among senior physicians and scientists of the national research institutes
 and among physicians and scientists conducting research with funds provided
 by such institutes, and as appropriate, carry out activities to increase
 the extent of such representation.
 `(f) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this part:
 `(1) The term `women's health conditions', with respect to women of all age,
 ethnic, and racial groups, means all diseases, disorders, and conditions
 (including with respect to mental health)--
 `(A) unique to, more serious, or more prevalent in women;
 `(B) for which the factors of medical risk or types of medical intervention
 are different for women, or for which it is unknown whether such factors
 or types are different for women; or
 `(C) with respect to which there has been insufficient clinical research
 involving women as subjects or insufficient clinical data on women.
 `(2) The term `research on women's health' means research on women's health
 conditions, including research on preventing such conditions.
`SEC. 486A. NATIONAL DATA SYSTEM AND CLEARINGHOUSE ON RESEARCH ON WOMEN'S
HEALTH.
 `(a) DATA SYSTEM-
 `(1) The Director of NIH, in consultation with the Director of the Office,
 shall establish a data system for the collection, storage, analysis,
 retrieval, and dissemination of information regarding research on
 women's health that is conducted or supported by the national research
 institutes. Information from the data system shall be available through
 information systems available to health care professionals and providers,
 researchers, and members of the public.
 `(2) The data system established under paragraph (1) shall include a
 registry of clinical trials of experimental treatments that have been
 developed for research on women's health. Such registry shall include
 information on subject eligibility criteria, sex, age, ethnicity or race,
 and the location of the trial site or sites. Principal investigators of such
 clinical trials shall provide this information to the registry within 30
 days after it is available. Once a trial has been completed, the principal
 investigator shall provide the registry with information pertaining to the
 results, including potential toxicities or adverse effects associated with
 the experimental treatment or treatments evaluated.
 `(b) CLEARINGHOUSE- The Director of NIH, in consultation with the Director
 of the Office and with the National Library of Medicine, shall establish,
 maintain, and operate a program to provide information on research and
 prevention activities of the national research institutes that relate to
 research on women's health.
`SEC. 486B. BIENNIAL REPORT.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- With respect to research on women's health, the Director of
 the Office shall, not later than February 1, 1994, and biennially thereafter,
 prepare a report--
 `(1) describing and evaluating the progress made during the preceding
 2 fiscal years in research and treatment conducted or supported by the
 National Institutes of Health;
 `(2) describing and analyzing the professional status of women physicians
 and scientists of such Institutes, including the identification of problems
 and barriers regarding advancements;
 `(3) summarizing and analyzing expenditures made by the agencies of such
 Institutes (and by such Office) during the preceding 2 fiscal years; and
 `(4) making such recommendations for legislative and administrative
 initiatives as the Director of the Office determines to be appropriate.
 `(b) INCLUSION IN BIENNIAL REPORT OF DIRECTOR OF NIH- The Director of
 the Office shall submit each report prepared under subsection (a) to the
 Director of NIH for inclusion in the report submitted to the President and
 the Congress under section 403.'.
 (b) REQUIREMENT OF SUFFICIENT ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES OF INSTITUTES- Section
 402(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (10), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (11), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following new paragraph:
 `(12) after consultation with the Director of the Office of Research on
 Women's Health, shall ensure that resources of the National Institutes
 of Health are sufficiently allocated for projects of research on women's
 health that are identified under section 486(b).'.
Subtitle C--Scientific Integrity
SEC. 151. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF SCIENTIFIC INTEGRITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 493 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289b)
 is amended to read as follows:
`OFFICE OF SCIENTIFIC INTEGRITY
 `SEC. 493. (a) ESTABLISHMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of
 this section, the Secretary shall establish an office to be known as the
 Office of Scientific Integrity (hereafter referred to in this section as
 the `Office'), which shall be established as an independent entity in the
 Department of Health and Human Services.
 `(2) DIRECTOR- The Office shall be headed by a Director, who shall be
 appointed by the Secretary, be experienced and specially trained in the
 conduct of research, and have experience in the conduct of investigations
 of scientific misconduct. The Secretary shall carry out this section
 acting through the Director of the Office. The Director shall report to
 the Secretary.
 `(b) EXISTENCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES AS CONDITION OF FUNDING FOR
 RESEARCH- The Secretary shall by regulation require that each entity
 that applies for a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this
 Act for any project or program that involves the conduct of biomedical
 or behavioral research submit in or with its application for such grant,
 contract, or cooperative agreement assurances satisfactory to the Secretary
 that such entity--
 `(1) has established (in accordance with regulations which the Secretary
 shall prescribe) an administrative process to review reports of scientific
 misconduct in connection with biomedical and behavioral research conducted
 at or sponsored by such entity; and
 `(2) will report to the Director any investigation of alleged scientific
 misconduct in connection with projects for which funds have been made
 available under this Act that appears substantial.
 `(c) PROCESS FOR RESPONSE OF DIRECTOR- The Secretary shall establish by
 regulation a process to be followed by the Director for the prompt and
 appropriate--
 `(1) response to information provided to the Director respecting scientific
 misconduct in connection with projects for which funds have been made
 available under this Act;
 `(2) receipt of reports by the Director of such information from recipients
 of funds under this Act;
 `(3) conduct of investigations, when appropriate; and
 `(4) taking of other actions, including appropriate remedies, with respect
 to such misconduct.
 `(d) MONITORING BY DIRECTOR- The Secretary shall by regulation establish
 procedures for the Director to monitor administrative processes and
 investigations that have been established or carried out under this section.
 `(e) EFFECT ON PRESENT INVESTIGATIONS- Nothing in this section shall affect
 investigations which have been or will be commenced prior to the promulgation
 of final regulations under this section.'.
 (b) ESTABLISHMENT OF DEFINITION OF SCIENTIFIC MISCONDUCT- Not later than
 90 days after the date on which the report required under section 152(d) is
 submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, such Secretary shall
 by regulation establish a definition for the term `scientific misconduct'
 for purposes of section 493 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by subsection (a) of this section.
SEC. 152. COMMISSION ON SCIENTIFIC INTEGRITY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish
 a commission to be known as the Commission on Scientific Integrity (in this
 section referred to as the `Commission').
 (b) DUTIES- The Commission shall develop recommendations for the Secretary
 of Health and Human Services on the administration of section 493 of the
 Public Health Service Act (as amended and added by section 151 of this Act).
 (c) COMPOSITION- The Commission shall be composed of 12 members to
 be appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services from among
 individuals who are not officers or employees of the United States. Of the
 members appointed to the Commission--
 (1) three shall be scientists with substantial accomplishments in biomedical
 or behavioral research;
 (2) three shall be individuals with experience in investigating allegations
 of misconduct with respect to scientific research;
 (3) three shall be representatives of institutions of higher education at
 which biomedical or behavioral research is conducted; and
 (4) three shall be individuals who are not described in paragraphs (1),
 (2), or (3), at least one of whom shall be an attorney and at least one of
 whom shall be an ethicist.
 (d) REPORT- Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this
 section, the Commission shall prepare and submit to the Secretary of Health
 and Human Services, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives, and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate,
 a report containing the recommendations developed under subsection (b).
SEC. 153. PROTECTION OF WHISTLEBLOWERS.
 Section 493 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 151 of
 this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f) PROTECTION OF WHISTLEBLOWERS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of any entity required to establish
 administrative processes under subsection (b), the Secretary shall by
 regulation establish standards for preventing, and for responding to the
 occurrence of retaliation by such entity, its officials or agents, against
 an employee in the terms and conditions of employment in response to the
 employee having in good faith--
 `(A) made an allegation that the entity, its officials or agents, has
 engaged in or failed to adequately respond to an allegation of scientific
 misconduct; or
 `(B) cooperated with an investigation of such an allegation.
 `(2) MONITORING BY SECRETARY- The Secretary shall establish by regulation
 procedures for the Director to monitor the implementation of the standards
 established by an entity under paragraph (1) for the purpose of determining
 whether the procedures have been established, and are being utilized,
 in accordance with the standards established under such paragraph.
 `(3) NONCOMPLIANCE- The Secretary shall by regulation establish remedies
 for noncompliance by an entity, its officials or agents, which has engaged
 in retaliation in violation of the standards established under paragraph
 (1). Such remedies may include termination of funding provided by the
 Secretary for such project or recovery of funding being provided by the
 Secretary for such project, or other actions as appropriate.
 `(4) FINAL RULE FOR REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue a final rule for
 the regulations required in paragraph (1) not later than 180 days after the
 date of the enactment of the National Institutes of Health Revitalization
 Amendments of 1992.
 `(5) REQUIRED AGREEMENTS- For any fiscal year beginning after the date on
 which the regulations required in paragraph (1) are issued, the Secretary
 may not provide a grant, cooperative agreement, or contract under this
 Act for biomedical or behavioral research unless the entity seeking such
 financial assistance agrees that the entity--
 `(A) will maintain the procedures described in the regulations; and
 `(B) will otherwise be subject to the regulations.'.
SEC. 154. REQUIREMENT OF REGULATIONS REGARDING PROTECTION AGAINST FINANCIAL
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CERTAIN PROJECTS OF RESEARCH.
 Part H of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as redesignated by
 section 141(a)(2) of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 493
 the following new section:
`PROTECTION AGAINST FINANCIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CERTAIN PROJECTS
OF RESEARCH
 `SEC. 493A. (a) ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall define by regulation, the specific
 circumstances that constitute the existence of a financial interest in a
 project on the part of an entity or individual that will, or may be reasonably
 expected to, create a bias in favor of obtaining results in such project
 that are consistent with such financial interest. Such definition shall
 apply uniformly to each entity or individual conducting a research project
 under this Act. In the case of any entity or individual receiving assistance
 from the Secretary for a project of research described in paragraph (2),
 the Secretary shall by regulation establish standards for responding to,
 including managing, reducing, or eliminating, the existence of such a
 financial interest. The entity may adopt individualized procedures for
 implementing the standards.
 `(2) RELEVANT PROJECTS- A project of research referred to in paragraph (1)
 is a project of clinical research whose purpose is to evaluate the safety
 or effectiveness of a drug, medical device, or treatment and for which such
 entity is receiving assistance from the Secretary.
 `(3) IDENTIFYING AND REPORTING TO THE DIRECTOR- The Secretary shall
 ensure that the standards established under paragraph (1) specify that
 as a condition of receiving assistance from the Secretary for the project
 involved, an entity described in such subsection is required--
 `(A) to have in effect at the time the entity applies for the assistance and
 throughout the period during which the assistance is received, a process
 for identifying such financial interests as defined in paragraph (1) that
 exist regarding the project; and
 `(B) to report to the Director such financial interest as defined in paragraph
 (1) identified by the entity and how any such financial interest identified
 by the entity will be managed or eliminated such that the project in question
 will be protected from bias that may stem from such financial interest.
 `(4) MONITORING OF PROCESS- The Secretary shall monitor the establishment
 and conduct of the process established by an entity pursuant to paragraph (1).
 `(5) RESPONSE- In any case in which the Secretary determines that an entity
 has failed to comply with paragraph (3) regarding a project of research
 described in paragraph (1), the Secretary--
 `(A) shall require that, as a condition of receiving assistance, the entity
 disclose the existence of a financial interest as defined in paragraph (1)
 in each public presentation of the results of such project; and
 `(B) may take such other actions as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate.
 `(6) DEFINITION- As used in this section:
 `(A) The term `financial interest' includes the receipt of consulting fees
 or honoraria and the ownership of stock or equity.
 `(B) The term `assistance', with respect to conducting a project of research,
 means a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.
 `(b) FINAL RULE FOR REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue a final rule for
 the regulations required in subsection (a) not later than 180 days after the
 date of the enactment of the National Institutes of Health Revitalization
 Amendments of 1992.'.
SEC. 155. EFFECTIVE DATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The amendments made by this subtitle shall become effective
 on the date that occurs 180 days after the date on which the final rule
 required under section 493(f)(4) of the Public Health Service Act, as
 amended by sections 151 and 153, is published in the Federal Register.
 (b) AGREEMENTS AS A CONDITION OF FUNDING- The requirements of subsection
 (f)(5) of section 493 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by sections
 151 and 153, with respect to agreements as a condition of funding shall not
 be effective in the case of projects of research for which initial funding
 under the Public Health Service Act was provided prior to the effective
 date described in subsection (a).
TITLE II--PROTECTION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
SEC. 201. PROTECTION OF FACILITIES ASSISTED UNDER PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.
 The Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), as amended by section
 101 of Public Law 101-381 and section 304 of Public Law 101-509, is amended--
 (1) by transferring sections 2701 through 2714 to title II;
 (2) by redesignating such sections as sections 231 through 244, respectively;
 (3) by inserting such sections, in the appropriate sequence, after section
 228;
 (4) by inserting before section 201 the following new heading:
`PART A--ADMINISTRATION';
 (5) by inserting before section 231 (as redesignated by paragraph (2)
 of this subsection) the following new heading:
`PART B--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS'; and
 (6) by adding at the end of title II (as amended by paragraphs (1) through
 (5) of this subsection) the following new part:
`PART C--PROTECTION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
`SEC. 251. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROTECTIONS.
 `With respect to any health facility receiving financial assistance under
 this Act, a person shall not--
 `(1) embezzle, steal, purloin, or knowingly engage in conversion of any
 personal property of the health facility, including, without authorization
 of the health facility--
 `(A) knowingly releasing or otherwise causing the loss from the health
 facility of any animal held for research purposes by the facility;
 `(B) knowingly injuring any animal held for such purposes; or
 `(C) knowingly destroying or altering records held by the facility;
 `(2) knowingly damage any real property of the health facility;
 `(3) knowingly deter, through any degree of physical restraint, any individual
 from entering or exiting the health facility;
 `(4) by force and violence take from the person or presence of an officer or
 employee of the health facility any personal property of the health facility
 (including any animal held for research purposes by the facility); or
 `(5) break or enter into the health facility with the intent to carry out
 any of the actions prohibited in any of paragraphs (1) through (4).
`SEC. 252. ENFORCEMENT.
 `(a) CRIMINAL PENALTY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any person who violates section 251 shall be fined in
 accordance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more
 than 5 years, or both.
 `(2) RESTITUTION- In sentencing a defendant convicted of a violation of
 section 251, the court involved may order the defendant to make restitution
 to the health facility involved. Sections 3663 and 3664 of title 18, United
 States Code, shall apply to such an order to the same extent and in the same
 manner as such sections apply to any order of restitution made pursuant to
 a conviction of any felony under such title 18.
 `(3) LIMITATION ON ACTION- Section 3282 of title 18, United States Code,
 shall apply to proceedings under paragraph (1).
 `(b) PRIVATE CIVIL ACTION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any health facility aggrieved as a result of a violation
 of any of paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 251 by any person may, in
 any court of competent jurisdiction, commence a civil action against such
 person to obtain appropriate relief, including actual and punitive damages,
 equitable relief, and a reasonable attorney's fee and costs.
 `(2) STATE OPTION WITH RESPECT TO OFFSET- To the extent provided by the law
 of the State in which the violation of section 251 occurred, any pecuniary
 relief recovered by a health facility in a civil action under paragraph
 (1) shall be offset against any pecuniary relief recovered by the health
 facility in a civil action authorized under the law of such State with
 respect to activities described in section 251.
 `(3) LIMITATION ON ACTION- Proceedings under paragraph (1) may not be
 commenced against a person after the expiration of the 2-year period
 beginning on the date on which the person allegedly engaged in the violation
 of section 251.
`SEC. 253. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
 `With respect to penalties and remedies established in this part regarding
 any health facility receiving financial assistance under this Act--
 `(1) this part may not be construed to limit or otherwise affect any other
 penalty or remedy under Federal or State law; and
 `(2) this part may not be construed to supersede any law of any State.'.
SEC. 202. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 The Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in the heading for title II, by inserting `AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS'
 after `ADMINISTRATION';
 (2) in section 406(a)(2), by striking `2701' and inserting `231';
 (3) in section 465(f), by striking `2701' and inserting `231';
 (4) in section 480(a)(2), by striking `2701' and inserting `231';
 (5) in section 485(a)(2), by striking `2701' and inserting `231';
 (6) in section 497, by striking `2701' and inserting `231';
 (7) in section 505(a)(2), by striking `2701' and inserting `231';
 (8) in section 926(b), by striking `2711' each place such term appears and
 inserting `241'; and
 (9) in title XXVII, by striking the heading for such title.
TITLE III--NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH IN GENERAL
SEC. 301. DISCRETIONARY FUND OF DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
 Section 402 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g)(1) There is established a fund, consisting of amounts appropriated under
 paragraph (3) and made available for the fund, for use by the Director of
 NIH to carry out the activities authorized in this Act for the National
 Insititutes of Health. The purposes for which such fund may be expended
 include, but are not limited to--
 `(A) providing for research on matters that have not received significant
 funding relative to other matters, responding to new issues and scientific
 emergencies, and acting on research opportunities of high priority;
 `(B) supporting research that is not exclusively within the authority of
 any single agency of such Institutes; and
 `(C) purchasing or renting equipment and quarters for activities of such
 Institutes.
 `(2) The Director of NIH shall provide to the Secretary an annual report
 describing the activities undertaken and expenditures made under this
 section. The Secretary shall submit such report, together with such comments
 regarding this section as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, to
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and
 to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.
 `(3) For the purpose of carrying out this subsection, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $25,000,000 in fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may
 be necessary in each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'.
SEC. 302. HEALTH PROMOTION RESEARCH DISSEMINATION.
 Section 402(f) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282(f)) is
 amended by striking `other public and private entities.' and all that
 follows through the end and inserting `other public and private entities,
 including elementary, secondary, and post-secondary schools. The Associate
 Director shall--
 `(1) annually review the efficacy of existing policies and techniques used
 by the national research institutes to disseminate the results of disease
 prevention and behavioral research programs;
 `(2) recommend, coordinate, and oversee the modification or reconstruction of
 such policies and techniques to ensure maximum dissemination, using advanced
 technologies to the maximum extent practicable, of research results to such
 entities; and
 `(3) annually prepare and submit to the Director of NIH a report concerning
 the prevention and dissemination activities undertaken by the Associate
 Director, including--
 `(A) a summary of the Associate Director's review of existing dissemination
 policies and techniques together with a detailed statement concerning
 any modification or restructuring, or recommendations for modification or
 restructuring, of such policies and techniques; and
 `(B) a detailed statement of the expenditures made for the prevention and
 dissemination activities reported on and the personnel used in connection
 with such activities.'.
SEC. 303. PROGRAMS FOR INCREASED SUPPORT REGARDING CERTAIN STATES AND
RESEARCHERS.
 Section 402 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 301 of
 this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h)(1)(A) In the case of entities described in subparagraph (B), the
 Director of NIH, acting through the Director of the National Center for
 Research Resources, shall establish a program to enhance the competitiveness
 of such entities in obtaining funds from the national research institutes
 for conducting biomedical and behavioral research.
 `(B) The entities referred to in subparagraph (A) are entities that
 conduct biomedical and behavioral research and are located in a State in
 which the aggregate success rate for applications to the national research
 institutes for assistance for such research by the entities in the State
 has historically constituted a low success rate of obtaining such funds,
 relative to such aggregate rate for such entities in other States.
 `(C) With respect to enhancing competitiveness for purposes of subparagraph
 (A), the Director of NIH, in carrying out the program established under
 such subparagraph, may--
 `(i) provide technical assistance to the entities involved, including
 technical assistance in the preparation of applications for obtaining funds
 from the national research institutes;
 `(ii) assist the entities in developing a plan for biomedical or behavioral
 research proposals; and
 `(iii) assist the entities in implementing such plan.
 `(2) The Director of NIH shall establish a program of supporting projects of
 biomedical or behavioral research whose principal researchers are individuals
 who have not previously served as the principal researchers of such projects
 supported by the Director.'.
SEC. 304. CHILDREN'S VACCINE INITIATIVE.
 Part A of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281 et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`children's vaccine initiative
 `SEC.  404. (a) DEVELOPMENT OF NEW VACCINES- The Secretary, in consulation
 with the Director of the National Vaccine Program under title XXI and acting
 through the Directors of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious
 Diseases, the National Institute for Child Health and Human Development, the
 National Institute for Aging, and other public and private programs, shall
 carry out activities, which shall be consistent with the global Children's
 Vaccine Initiative, to develop affordable new and improved vaccines to be
 used in the United States and in the developing world that will increase
 the efficacy and efficiency of the prevention of infectious diseases. In
 carrying out such activities, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable,
 develop and make available vaccines that require fewer contacts to deliver,
 that can be given early in life, that provide long lasting protection,
 that obviate refrigeration, needles and syringes, and that protect against
 a larger number of diseases.
 `(b) REPORT- In the report required in section 2104, the Secretary, acting
 through the Director of the National Vaccine Program under title XXI,
 shall include information with respect to activities and the progress made
 in implementing the provisions of this section and achieving its goals.
 `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to any other amounts
 authorized to be appropriated for activities of the type described in
 this section, there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this
 section, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1994,
 $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.'.
SEC. 305. PLAN FOR USE OF ANIMALS IN RESEARCH.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part A of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as
 amended by section 304 of this Act, is amended  by adding at the end the
 following new section:
`PLAN FOR USE OF ANIMALS IN RESEARCH
 `SEC. 404A. (a) The Director of NIH, after consultation with the committee
 established under subsection (e), shall prepare a plan--
 `(1) for the National Institutes of Health to conduct or support research
 into--
 `(A) methods of biomedical research and experimentation that do not require
 the use of animals;
 `(B) methods of such research and experimentation that reduce the number
 of animals used in such research; and
 `(C) methods of such research and experimentation that produce less pain
 and distress in such animals;
 `(2) for establishing the validity and reliability of the methods described
 in paragraph (1);
 `(3) for encouraging the acceptance by the scientific community of such
 methods that have been found to be valid and reliable; and
 `(4) for training scientists in the use of such methods that have been
 found to be valid and reliable.
 `(b) Not later than October 1, 1993, the Director of NIH shall submit
 to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives,
 and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, the plan
 required in subsection (a) and shall begin implementation of the plan.
 `(c) The Director of NIH shall periodically review, and as appropriate,
 make revisions in the plan required under subsection (a). A description
 of any revision made in the plan shall be included in the first biennial
 report under section 403 that is submitted after the revision is made.
 `(d) The Director of NIH shall take such actions as may be appropriate to
 convey to scientists and others who use animals in biomedical or behavioral
 research or experimentation information respecting the methods found to be
 valid and reliable under subsection (a)(2).
 `(e)(1) The Director of NIH shall establish within the National Institutes
 of Health a committee to be known as the Interagency Coordinating Committee
 on the Use of Animals in Research (hereafter in this subsection referred
 to as the `Committee').
 `(2) The Committee shall provide advice to the Director of NIH on the
 preparation of the plan required in subsection (a).
 `(3) The Committee shall be composed of--
 `(A) the Directors of each of the national research institutes (or the
 designees of such Directors); and
 `(B) representatives of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and
 Drug Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the National
 Science Foundation, and such additional agencies as the Director of NIH
 determines to be appropriate.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 4 of the Health Research Extension Act
 of 1985 (Public Law 99-158; 99 Stat. 880) is repealed.
SEC. 306. INCREASED PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN AND DISADVANTAGED INDIVIDUALS IN
FIELDS OF BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH.
 Section 402 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 303 of
 this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(i) The Secretary, acting through the Director of NIH and the Directors
 of the agencies of the National Institutes of Health, may conduct and
 support programs for research, research training, recruitment, and other
 activities to provide for an increase in the number of women and individuals
 from disadvantaged backgrounds in the fields of biomedical and behavioral
 research.'.
SEC. 307. REQUIREMENTS REGARDING SURVEYS OF SEXUAL BEHAVIOR.
 Part A of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section
 305 of this Act, is amended  by adding at the end the following new section:
`REQUIREMENTS REGARDING SURVEYS OF SEXUAL BEHAVIOR
 `SEC. 404B. With respect to any survey of human sexual behavior proposed
 to be conducted or supported through the National Institutes of Health,
 the survey may not be carried out unless--
 `(1) the proposal has undergone review in accordance with any applicable
 requirements of sections 491 and 492; and
 `(2) the Secretary, in accordance with section 492A, makes a determination
 that the information expected to be obtained through the survey will assist--
 `(A) in reducing the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases, the
 incidence of infection with the human immunodeficiency virus, or the
 incidence of any other infectious disease; or
 `(B) in improving reproductive health or other conditions of health.'.
SEC. 308. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 (a) TERM OF OFFICE FOR MEMBERS OF ADVISORY COUNCILS- Section 406(c) of
 the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284a(c)) is amended in the second
 sentence by striking `until a successor has been appointed' and inserting
 the following: `for 180 days after the date of such expiration'.
 (b) LITERACY REQUIREMENTS- Section 402(e) of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 282(e)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) ensure that, after January 1, 1993, at least one-half of all new or
 revised health education and promotion materials developed or funded by the
 National Institutes of Health is in a form that does not exceed a level
 of functional literacy, as defined in the National Literacy Act of 1991
 (Public Law 102-73).'.
 (c) DAY CARE REGARDING CHILDREN OF EMPLOYEES- Section 402 of the Public
 Health Service Act, as amended by section 306 of this Act, is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(j)(1) The Director of NIH may establish a program to provide day care
 service for the employees of the National Institutes of Health similar to
 those services provided by other Federal agencies (including the availability
 of day care service on a 24-hour-a-day basis).
 `(2) Any day care provider at the National Institutes of Health shall
 establish a sliding scale of fees that takes into consideration the income
 and needs of the employee.
 `(3) For purposes regarding the provision of day care service, the Director
 of NIH may enter into rental or lease purchase agreements.'.
TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING NATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTES
SEC. 401. APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY OF DIRECTORS OF NATIONAL RESEARCH
INSTITUTES.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF GENERAL AUTHORITY REGARDING DIRECT FUNDING-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 405(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 284(b)(2)) is amended--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 `; and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) shall receive from the President and the Office of Management and
 Budget directly all funds appropriated by the Congress for obligation and
 expenditure by the Institute.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 413(b)(9) of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 285a-2(b)(9)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(A)' after `(9)'; and
 (B) by striking `advisory council;' and all that follows and inserting
 `advisory council.'.
 (b) APPOINTMENT AND DURATION OF TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC PEER REVIEW
 GROUPS- Section 405(c) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284(c))
 is amended--
 (1) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
 `(3) may, in consultation with the advisory council for the Institute and
 with the approval of the Director of NIH--
 `(A) establish technical and scientific peer review groups in addition to
 those appointed under section 402(b)(6); and
 `(B) appoint the members of peer review groups established under subparagraph
 (A); and'; and
 (2) by adding after and below paragraph (4) the following:
`The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the duration of a
peer review group appointed under paragraph (3).'.
SEC. 402. PROGRAM OF RESEARCH ON OSTEOPOROSIS, PAGET'S DISEASE, AND RELATED
BONE DISORDERS.
 Part B of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284 et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`RESEARCH ON OSTEOPOROSIS, PAGET'S DISEASE, AND RELATED BONE DISORDERS
 `SEC. 409. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Directors of the National Institute of
 Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, the National Institute on
 Aging, and the National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases,
 shall expand and intensify the programs of such Institutes with respect to
 research and related activities concerning osteoporosis, Paget's disease,
 and related bone disorders.
 `(b) COORDINATION- The Directors referred to in subsection (a) shall jointly
 coordinate the programs referred to in such subsection and consult with the
 Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Diseases Interagency Coordinating Committee
 and the Interagency Task Force on Aging Research.
 `(c) INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In order to assist in carrying out the purpose described
 in subsection (a), the Director of NIH shall provide for the establishment
 of an information clearinghouse on osteoporosis and related bone disorders
 to facilitate and enhance knowledge and understanding on the part of health
 professionals, patients, and the public through the effective dissemination
 of information.
 `(2) ESTABLISHMENT THROUGH GRANT OR CONTRACT- For the purpose of carrying
 out paragraph (1), the Director of NIH shall enter into a grant, cooperative
 agreement, or contract with a nonprofit private entity involved in activities
 regarding the prevention and control of osteoporosis and related bone
 disorders.
 `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $40,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
 1994 through 1996.'.
SEC. 403. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY PROGRAM FOR TRAUMA RESEARCH.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title XII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d
 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following part:
`Part E--Interagency Program for Trauma Research
`SEC. 1251. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the
 National Institutes of Health (hereafter in this section referred to as the
 `Director'), shall establish a comprehensive program of conducting basic and
 clinical research on trauma (hereafter in this section referred to as the
 `Program'). The Program shall include research regarding the diagnosis,
 treatment, rehabilitation, and general management of trauma.
 `(b) PLAN FOR PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Director, in consultation with the Trauma Research
 Interagency Coordinating Committee established under subsection (g),
 shall establish and implement a plan for carrying out the activities of
 the Program, including the activities described in subsection (d). All such
 activities shall be carried out in accordance with the plan. The plan shall
 be periodically reviewed, and revised as appropriate.
 `(2) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS- Not later than April 1, 1993, the Director
 shall submit the plan required in paragraph (1) to the Committee on Energy
 and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate, together with an estimate of the funds
 needed for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996 to implement the plan.
 `(c) PARTICIPATING AGENCIES; COORDINATION AND COLLABORATION- The Director--
 `(1) shall provide for the conduct of activities under the Program by the
 Directors of the agencies of the National Institutes of Health involved in
 research with respect to trauma;
 `(2) shall ensure that the activities of the Program are coordinated among
 such agencies; and
 `(3) shall, as appropriate, provide for collaboration among such agencies
 in carrying out such activities.
 `(d) CERTAIN ACTIVITIES OF PROGRAM- The Program shall include--
 `(1) studies with respect to all phases of trauma care, including prehospital,
 resuscitation, surgical intervention, critical care, infection control,
 wound healing, nutritional care and support, and medical rehabilitation care;
 `(2) basic and clinical research regarding the response of the body to
 trauma and the acute treatment and medical rehabilitation of individuals
 who are the victims of trauma; and
 `(3) basic and clinical research regarding trauma care for pediatric and
 geriatric patients.
 `(e) MECHANISMS OF SUPPORT- In carrying out the Program, the Director, acting
 through the Directors of the agencies referred to in subsection (c)(1),
 may make grants to public and nonprofit entities, including designated
 trauma centers.
 `(f) RESOURCES- The Director shall assure the availability of appropriate
 resources to carry out the Program, including the plan established under
 subsection (b) (including the activities described in subsection (d)).
 `(g) COORDINATING COMMITTEE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- There shall be established a Trauma Research Interagency
 Coordinating Committee (hereafter in this section referred to as the
 `Coordinating Committee').
 `(2) DUTIES- The Coordinating Committee shall make recommendations regarding--
 `(A) the activities of the Program to be carried out by each of the agencies
 represented on the Committee and the amount of funds needed by each of the
 agencies for such activities; and
 `(B) effective collaboration among the agencies in carrying out the
 activities.
 `(3) COMPOSITION- The Coordinating Committee shall be composed of the
 Directors of each of the agencies that, under subsection (c), have
 responsibilities under the Program, and any other individuals who are
 practitioners in the trauma field as designated by the Director of the
 National Institutes of Health.
 `(h) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `designated trauma center' has the meaning given such term
 in section 1231(1).
 `(2) The term `Director' means the Director of the National Institutes
 of Health.
 `(3) The term `trauma' means any serious injury that could result in loss
 of life or in significant disability and that would meet pre-hospital triage
 criteria for transport to a designated trauma center.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 402 of the Public Health Service Act,
 as amended by section 308(c) of this Act, is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subsection:
 `(k) The Director of NIH shall carry out the program established in part
 E of title XII (relating to interagency research on trauma).'.
TITLE V--NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE
SEC. 501. EXPANSION AND INTENSIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES REGARDING BREAST CANCER.
 Subpart 1 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`BREAST AND GYNECOLOGICAL CANCERS
 `SEC. 417. (a) EXPANSION AND COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES- The Director of
 the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory Board,
 shall expand, intensify, and coordinate the activities of the Institute with
 respect to research on breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and other cancers of
 the reproductive system of women.
 `(b) COORDINATION WITH OTHER INSTITUTES- The Director of the Institute shall
 coordinate the activities of the Director under subsection (a) with similar
 activities conducted by other national research institutes and agencies of
 the National Institutes of Health to the extent that such Institutes and
 agencies have responsibilities that are related to breast cancer and other
 cancers of the reproductive system of women.
 `(c) PROGRAMS FOR BREAST CANCER-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Institute
 shall conduct or support research to expand the understanding of the cause of,
 and to find a cure for, breast cancer. Activities under such subsection shall
 provide for an expansion and intensification of the conduct and support of--
 `(A) basic research concerning the etiology and causes of breast cancer;
 `(B) clinical research and related activities concerning the causes,
 prevention, detection and treatment of breast cancer;
 `(C) control programs with respect to breast cancer in accordance with
 section 412;
 `(D) information and education programs with respect to breast cancer in
 accordance with section 413; and
 `(E) research and demonstration centers with respect to breast cancer in
 accordance with section 414, including the development and operation
 of centers for breast cancer research to bring together basic and
 clinical, biomedical and behavioral scientists to conduct basic, clinical,
 epidemiological, psychosocial, prevention and treatment research and related
 activities on breast cancer.
Not less than six centers shall be operated under subparagraph (E). Activities
of such centers should include supporting new and innovative research and
training programs for new researchers. Such centers shall give priority to
expediting the transfer of research advances to clinical applications.
 `(2) IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN FOR PROGRAMS-
 `(A) The Director of the Institute shall ensure that the research programs
 described in paragraph (1) are implemented in accordance with a plan for
 the programs. Such plan shall include comments and recommendations that
 the Director of the Institute considers appropriate, with due consideration
 provided to the professional judgment needs of the Institute as expressed in
 the annual budget estimate prepared in accordance with section 413(9). The
 Director of the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory
 Board, shall periodically review and revise such plan.
 `(B) Not later than February 1, 1993, the Director of the Institute shall
 submit a copy of the plan to the President's Cancer Panel, the Secretary
 and the Director of NIH.
 `(C) The Director of the Institute shall submit any revisions of the plan
 to the President's Cancer Panel, the Secretary, and the Director of NIH.
 `(D) The Secretary shall provide a copy of the plan submitted under
 subparagraph (A), and any revisions submitted under subparagraph (C), to
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and
 the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.
 `(d) OTHER CANCERS- In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the
 Institute shall conduct or support research on ovarian cancer and other
 cancers of the reproductive system of women. Activities under such subsection
 shall provide for the conduct and support of--
 `(1) basic research concerning the etiology and causes of ovarian cancer
 and other cancers of the reproductive system of women;
 `(2) clinical research and related activities into the causes, prevention,
 detection and treatment of ovarian cancer and other cancers of the
 reproductive system of women;
 `(3) control programs with respect to ovarian cancer and other cancers of
 the reproductive system of women in accordance with section 412;
 `(4) information and education programs with respect to ovarian cancer
 and other cancers of the reproductive system of women in accordance with
 section 413; and
 `(5) research and demonstration centers with respect to ovarian cancer and
 cancers of the reproductive system in accordance with section 414.
 `(e) REPORT- The Director of the Institute shall prepare, for inclusion in
 the biennial report submitted under section 407, a report that describes
 the activities of the National Cancer Institute under the research programs
 referred to in subsection (a), that shall include--
 `(1) a description of the research plan with respect to breast cancer
 prepared under subsection (c);
 `(2) an assessment of the development, revision, and implementation of
 such plan;
 `(3) a description and evaluation of the progress made, during the period
 for which such report is prepared, in the research programs on breast cancer
 and cancers of the reproductive system of women;
 `(4) a summary and analysis of expenditures made, during the period for
 which such report is made, for activities with respect to breast cancer and
 cancers of the reproductive system of women conducted and supported by the
 National Institutes of Health; and
 `(5) such comments and recommendations as the Director considers
 appropriate.'.
SEC. 502. EXPANSION AND INTENSIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES REGARDING PROSTATE
CANCER.
 Subpart 1 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 501 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`PROSTATE CANCER
 `SEC. 417A. (a) EXPANSION AND COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES- The Director of
 the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory Board,
 shall expand, intensify, and coordinate the activities of the Institute
 with respect to research on prostate cancer.
 `(b) COORDINATION WITH OTHER INSTITUTES- The Director of the Institute shall
 coordinate the activities of the Director under subsection (a) with similar
 activities conducted by other national research institutes and agencies of
 the National Institutes of Health to the extent that such Institutes and
 agencies have responsibilities that are related to prostate cancer.
 `(c) PROGRAMS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the
 Institute shall conduct or support research to expand the understanding
 of the cause of, and to find a cure for, prostate cancer. Activities under
 such subsection shall provide for an expansion and intensification of the
 conduct and support of--
 `(A) basic research concerning the etiology and causes of prostate cancer;
 `(B) clinical research and related activities concerning the causes,
 prevention, detection and treatment of prostate cancer;
 `(C) prevention and control and early detection programs with respect to
 prostate cancer in accordance with section 412, particularly as it relates
 to intensifying research on the role of prostate specific antigen for the
 screening and early detection of prostate cancer;
 `(D) an Inter-Institute Task Force, under the direction of the Director of
 the Institute, to provide coordination between relevant National Institutes
 of Health components of research efforts on prostate cancer;
 `(E) control programs with respect to prostate cancer in accordance with
 section 412;
 `(F) information and education programs with respect to prostate cancer in
 accordance with section 413; and
 `(G) research and demonstration centers with respect to prostate cancer
 in accordance with section 414, including the development and operation
 of centers for prostate cancer research to bring together basic and
 clinical, biomedical and behavioral scientists to conduct basic, clinical,
 epidemiological, psychosocial, prevention and treatment research and related
 activities on prostate cancer.
Not less than six centers shall be operated under subparagraph (G). Activities
of such centers should include supporting new and innovative research and
training programs for new researchers. Such centers shall give priority to
expediting the transfer of research advances to clinical applications.
 `(2) IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN FOR PROGRAMS-
 `(A) The Director of the Institute shall ensure that the research programs
 described in paragraph (1) are implemented in accordance with a plan for
 the programs. Such plan shall include comments and recommendations that
 the Director of the Institute considers appropriate, with due consideration
 provided to the professional judgment needs of the Institute as expressed in
 the annual budget estimate prepared in accordance with section 413(9). The
 Director of the Institute, in consultation with the National Cancer Advisory
 Board, shall periodically review and revise such plan.
 `(B) Not later than February 1, 1993, the Director of the Institute shall
 submit a copy of the plan to the President's Cancer Panel, the Secretary
 and the Director of NIH.
 `(C) The Director of the Institute shall submit any revisions of the plan
 to the President's Cancer Panel, the Secretary, and the Director of NIH.
 `(D) The Secretary shall provide a copy of the plan submitted under
 subparagraph (A), and any revisions submitted under subparagraph (C), to
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and
 the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.'.
SEC. 503. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subpart 1 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service
 Act, as amended by section 502 of this Act, is amended by adding at the
 end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 417B. (a) ACTIVITIES GENERALLY- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart, there are authorized to be appropriated $2,200,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
 1994 through 1996.
 `(b) BREAST CANCER AND GYNECOLOGICAL CANCERS-
 `(1) BREAST CANCER-
 `(A) For the purpose of carrying out subparagraph (A) of section 417(c)(1),
 there are authorized to be appropriated $225,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993, and such sums as are necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994
 through 1996. Such authorizations of appropriations are in addition to the
 authorizations of appropriations established in subsection (a) and in section
 301 with respect to the Director of the Institute carrying out such purpose.
 `(B) For the purpose of carrying out subparagraphs (B) through (E) of section
 417(c)(1), there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as are necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994
 through 1996. Such authorizations of appropriations are in addition to the
 authorizations of appropriations established in subsection (a) and in section
 301 with respect to the Director of the Institute carrying out such purpose.
 `(2) OTHER CANCERS- For the purpose of carrying out subsection (d) of
 section 417, there are authorized to be appropriated $75,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as are necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994
 through 1996. Such authorizations of appropriations are in addition to the
 authorizations of appropriations established in subsection (a) and in section
 301 with respect to the Director of the Institute carrying out such purpose.
 `(c) PROSTATE CANCER- For the purpose of carrying out section 417A, there are
 authorized to be appropriated $72,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums
 as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996. Such
 authorizations of appropriations are in addition to the authorizations
 of appropriations established in subsection (a) and in section 301 with
 respect to the Director of the Institute carrying out such purpose.
 `(d) ALLOCATION REGARDING CANCER CONTROL- Of the amounts appropriated for the
 National Cancer Institute for a fiscal year, the Director of the Institute
 shall make available not less than 10 percent for carrying out the cancer
 control activities authorized in section 412 and for which budget estimates
 are made under section 413(b)(9) for the fiscal year.'.
 (b) SPECIAL RULE REGARDING FUNDS FOR SECTION 412 FOR FISCAL YEAR 1993-
 Notwithstanding section 417B(d) of the Public Health Service Act, as added by
 subsection (a) of this section, the amount made available under such section
 for fiscal year 1993 for carrying out section 412 of such Act shall be an
 amount not less than an amount equal to 75 percent of the amount specified
 for activities under such section 412 in the budget estimate made under
 section 413(b)(9) of such Act for such fiscal year.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 408 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284c)
 is amended--
 (A) by striking subsection (a);
 (B) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (a);
 (C) by redesignating paragraph (5) of subsection (a) (as so redesignated)
 as subsection (b); and
 (D) by amending the heading for the section to read as follows:
`CERTAIN USES OF FUNDS'.
 (2) CROSS-REFERENCE- Section 464F of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285m-6) is amended by striking `section 408(b)(1)' and inserting
 `section 408(a)(1)'.
TITLE VI--NATIONAL HEART, LUNG, AND BLOOD INSTITUTE
SEC. 601. EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
 Section 421(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285b-3(b))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
 `(5) shall, in consultation with the advisory council for the Institute,
 conduct appropriate intramural training and education programs, including
 continuing education and laboratory and clinical research training programs.'.
SEC. 602. CENTERS FOR THE STUDY OF PEDIATRIC CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES.
 Section 422(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285b-4(a)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) three centers for basic and clinical research into, training in, and
 demonstration of, advanced diagnostic, prevention, and treatment (including
 genetic studies, intrauterine environment studies, postnatal studies,
 heart arrhythmias, and acquired heart disease and preventive cardiology)
 for cardiovascular diseases in children.'.
SEC. 603. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Subpart 2 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285b et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 424. (a) IN GENERAL- For the purpose of carrying out this subpart, there
 are authorized to be appropriated $1,400,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and
 such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.
 `(b) ALLOCATION REGARDING PREVENTION AND CONTROL ACTIVITIES- Of the amounts
 appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Director of the
 Institute shall make available not less than 10 percent for carrying out
 prevention and control activities authorized in section 419.'.
TITLE VII--NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DIABETES AND DIGESTIVE AND KIDNEY DISEASES
SEC. 701. PROVISIONS REGARDING NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS.
 Subpart 3 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285c et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 section:
`NUTRITIONAL DISORDERS PROGRAM
 `SEC. 434. (a) The Director of the Institute shall establish a program
 of conducting and supporting research, training, health information
 dissemination, and other activities with respect to nutritional disorders,
 including obesity.
 `(b) In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the
 Director of the Institute shall conduct and support each of the activities
 described in such subsection. The Director of NIH shall ensure that, as
 appropriate, the other national research institutes and agencies of the
 National Institutes of Health have responsibilities regarding such activities.
 `(c) In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the
 Director of the Institute shall carry out activities to facilitate and
 enhance knowledge and understanding of nutritional disorders, including
 obesity, on the part of health professionals, patients, and the public
 through the effective dissemination of information.'.
 (b) DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION OF RESEARCH AND TRAINING CENTERS- Section
 431 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285c-5) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) The Director of the Institute shall, subject to the extent of
 amounts made available in appropriations Acts, provide for the development
 or substantial expansion of centers for research and training regarding
 nutritional disorders, including obesity.
 `(2) The Director of the Institute shall carry out paragraph (1) in
 collaboration with the Director of the National Cancer Institute and with
 the Directors of such other agencies of the National Institutes of Health
 as the Director of NIH determines to be appropriate.
 `(3) Each center developed or expanded under paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) utilize the facilities of a single institution, or be formed from a
 consortium of cooperating institutions, meeting such research and training
 qualifications as may be prescribed by the Director;
 `(B) conduct basic and clinical research into the cause, diagnosis, early
 detection, prevention, control and treatment of nutritional disorders,
 including obesity and the impact of nutrition and diet on child development;
 `(C) conduct training programs for physicians and allied health professionals
 in current methods of diagnosis and treatment of such diseases and
 complications, and in research in such disorders; and
 `(D) conduct information programs for physicians and allied health
 professionals who provide primary care for patients with such disorders
 or complications.'.
TITLE VIII--NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON ARTHRITIS AND MUSCULOSKELETAL AND SKIN
DISEASES
SEC. 801. JUVENILE ARTHRITIS.
 (a) PURPOSE- Section 435 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285d)
 is amended by striking `including sports-related disorders' and inserting
 `with particular attention to the effect of these diseases on children'.
 (b) PROGRAMS- Section 436 (42 U.S.C. 285d-1) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting after the second sentence, the following:
 `The plan shall place particular emphasis upon expanding research into
 better understanding the causes and the development of effective treatments
 for arthritis affecting children.'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) research into the causes of arthritis affecting children and the
 development, trial, and evaluation of techniques, drugs and devices used in
 the diagnosis, treatment (including medical rehabilitation), and prevention
 of arthritis in children.'.
 (c) CENTERS- Section 441 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 286d-6)
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(f) Not later than April 1, 1993, the Director shall establish a multipurpose
 arthritis and musculoskeletal disease center for the purpose of expanding the
 level of research into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention,
 control, and treatment of, and rehabilitation of children with arthritis
 and musculoskeletal diseases.'.
 (d) ADVISORY BOARD- Section 442 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285d-7) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)(1)(B)--
 (A) by striking `six' and inserting `seven'; and
 (B) by striking `one member' the second place such term appears and all
 that follows and inserting the following: `two members who are parents of
 children with arthritis.'; and
 (2) in subsection (j)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) contains recommendations for expanding the Institute's funding of
 research directly applicable to the cause, diagnosis, early detection,
 prevention, control, and treatment of, and rehabilitation of children with
 arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases.'.
TITLE IX--NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON AGING
SEC. 901. ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE REGISTRY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 12 of Public Law 99-158 (99 Stat. 885) is--
 (1) transferred to subpart 5 of part C of title IV of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285e et seq.);
 (2) redesignated as section 445G; and
 (3) inserted after section 445F of such Act.
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 445G of the Public Health
 Service Act, as transferred and inserted by subsection (a) of this section,
 is amended--
 (1) by striking the section heading and all that follows through `may make
 a grant' in subsection (a) and inserting the following:
`ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE REGISTRY
 `SEC. 445G. (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Institute may make a
 grant'; and
 (2) by striking subsection (c).
SEC. 902. AGING PROCESSES REGARDING WOMEN.
 Subpart 5 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 901 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`AGING PROCESSES REGARDING WOMEN
 `SEC. 445H. The Director of the Institute, in addition to other special
 functions specified in section 444 and in cooperation with the Directors
 of the other national research institutes and agencies of the National
 Institutes of Health, shall conduct research into the aging processes of
 women, with particular emphasis given to the effects of menopause and the
 physiological and behavioral changes occurring during the transition from
 pre- to post-menopause, and into the diagnosis, disorders, and complications
 related to aging and loss of ovarian hormones in women.'.
SEC. 903. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Subpart 5 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 902 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 445I. For the purpose of carrying out this subpart, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $500,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may
 be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'.
SEC. 904. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
 Section 445C of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285e-5(b))
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)(1),  in the first sentence, by inserting after `Council'
 the following: `on Alzheimer's Disease (hereafter in this section referred
 to as the `Council')'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) For purposes of this section, the term `Council on Alzheimer's Disease'
 means the council established in section 911(a) of Public Law 99-660.'.
TITLE X--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES
SEC. 1001. TROPICAL DISEASES.
 Section 446 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285f) is amended
 by inserting before the period the following: `, including tropical diseases'.
SEC. 1002. CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME.
 (a) RESEARCH CENTERS- Subpart 6 of part C of title IV of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285f) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`RESEARCH CENTERS REGARDING CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME
 `SEC. 447. (a) The Director of the Institute, after consultation with
 the advisory council for the Institute, may make grants to, or enter into
 contracts with, public or nonprofit private entities for the development
 and operation of centers to conduct basic and clinical research on chronic
 fatigue syndrome.
 `(b) Each center assisted under this section shall use the facilities
 of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating
 institutions, meeting such requirements as may be prescribed by the Director
 of the Institute.'.
 (b) EXTRAMURAL STUDY SECTION- Not later than 6 months after the date of
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
 establish an extramural study section for chronic fatigue syndrome research.
 (c) REPRESENTATIVES- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting
 through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall ensure
 that appropriate individuals with expertise in chronic fatigue syndrome or
 neuromuscular diseases and representative of a variety of disciplines and
 fields within the research community are appointed to appropriate National
 Institutes of Health advisory committees and boards.
TITLE XI--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF CHILD HEALTH AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
Subtitle A--Research Centers With Respect to Contraception and Research
Centers With Respect to Infertility
SEC. 1101. GRANTS AND CONTRACTS FOR RESEARCH CENTERS.
 Subpart 7 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 3 of Public Law 101-613, is amended by adding at the end the
 following new section:
`RESEARCH CENTERS WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACEPTION AND INFERTILITY
 `SEC. 452A. (a) The Director of the Institute, after consultation with the
 advisory council for the Institute, shall make grants to, or enter into
 contracts with, public or nonprofit private entities for the development
 and operation of centers to conduct activities for the purpose of improving
 methods of contraception and centers to conduct activities for the purpose
 of improving methods of diagnosis and treatment of infertility.
 `(b) In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Institute shall,
 subject to the extent of amounts made available in appropriations Acts,
 provide for the establishment of three centers with respect to contraception
 and for two centers with respect to infertility.
 `(c)(1) Each center assisted under this section shall, in carrying out the
 purpose of the center involved--
 `(A) conduct clinical and other applied research, including--
 `(i) for centers with respect to contraception, clinical trials of new or
 improved drugs and devices for use by males and females (including barrier
 methods); and
 `(ii) for centers with respect to infertility, clinical trials of new or
 improved drugs and devices for the diagnosis and treatment of infertility
 in males and females;
 `(B) develop protocols for training physicians, scientists, nurses, and
 other health and allied health professionals;
 `(C) conduct training programs for such individuals;
 `(D) develop model continuing education programs for such professionals; and
 `(E) disseminate information to such professionals and the public.
 `(2) A center may use funds provided under subsection (a) to provide stipends
 for health and allied health professionals enrolled in programs described
 in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1), and to provide fees to individuals
 serving as subjects in clinical trials conducted under such paragraph.
 `(d) The Director of the Institute shall, as appropriate, provide for the
 coordination of information among the centers assisted under this section.
 `(e) Each center assisted under subsection (a) shall use the facilities
 of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating
 institutions, meeting such requirements as may be prescribed by the Director
 of the Institute.
 `(f) Support of a center under subsection (a) may be for a period not
 exceeding 5 years. Such period may be extended for one or more additional
 periods not exceeding 5 years if the operations of such center have been
 reviewed by an appropriate technical and scientific peer review group
 established by the Director and if such group has recommended to the Director
 that such period should be extended.
 `(g) For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to
 be appropriated $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'.
SEC. 1102. LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR RESEARCH WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACEPTION
AND INFERTILITY.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as redesignated by
 section 141(a)(2) of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 487A
 the following new section:
`LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR RESEARCH WITH RESPECT TO CONTRACEPTION AND
INFERTILITY
 `SEC. 487B. (a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the
 National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, shall establish
 a program of entering into agreements with qualified health professionals
 (including graduate students) under which such health professionals agree
 to conduct research with respect to contraception, or with respect to
 infertility, in consideration of the Federal Government agreeing to repay,
 for each year of such service, not more than $20,000 of the principal and
 interest of the educational loans of such health professionals.
 `(b) The provisions of sections 338B, 338C, and 338E shall apply to the
 program established in subsection (a) to the same extent and in the same
 manner as such provisions apply to the National Health Service Corps Loan
 Repayment Program established in subpart III of part D of title III.
 `(c) Amounts appropriated for carrying out this section shall remain
 available until the expiration of the second fiscal year beginning after
 the fiscal year for which the amounts were appropriated.'.
Subtitle B--Program Regarding Obstetrics and Gynecology
SEC. 1111. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
 Subpart 7 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 1101 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`PROGRAM REGARDING OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
 `SEC. 452B. The Director of the Institute shall establish and maintain
 within the Institute an intramural laboratory and clinical research program
 in obstetrics and gynecology.'.
Subtitle C--Child Health Research Centers
SEC. 1121. ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTERS.
 Subpart 7 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 1111 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`CHILD HEALTH RESEARCH CENTERS
 `SEC. 452C. The Director of the Institute shall develop and support centers
 for conducting research with respect to child health. Such centers shall
 give priority to the expeditious transfer of advances from basic science
 to clinical applications and improving the care of infants and children.'.
Subtitle D--Study Regarding Adolescent Health
SEC. 1131. PROSPECTIVE LONGITUDINAL STUDY.
 Subpart 7 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 1121 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`PROSPECTIVE LONGITUDINAL STUDY ON ADOLESCENT HEALTH
 `SEC. 452D. (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Institute shall conduct a
 study for the purpose of providing information on the general health and
 well-being of adolescents in the United States, including, with respect to
 such adolescents, information on--
 `(1) the behaviors that promote health and the behaviors that are detrimental
 to health; and
 `(2) the influence on health of factors particular to the communities in
 which the adolescents reside.
 `(b) DESIGN OF STUDY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The study required in subsection (a) shall be a
 longitudinal study in which a substantial number of adolescents participate as
 subjects. With respect to the purpose described in such subsection, the study
 shall monitor the subjects throughout the period of the study to determine
 the health status of the subjects and any change in such status over time.
 `(2) POPULATION-SPECIFIC ANALYSES- The study required in subsection (a)
 shall be conducted with respect to the population of adolescents who are
 female, the population of adolescents who are male, various socioeconomic
 populations of adolescents, and various racial and ethnic populations of
 adolescents. The study shall be designed and conducted in a manner sufficient
 to provide for a valid analysis of whether there are significant differences
 among such populations in health status and whether and to what extent any
 such differences are due to factors particular to the populations involved.
 `(c) COORDINATION WITH WOMEN'S HEALTH INITIATIVE- With respect to the national
 study of women being conducted by the Secretary and known as the Women's
 Health Initiative, the Secretary shall ensure that such study is coordinated
 with the component of the study required in subsection (a) that concerns
 adolescent females, including coordination in the design of the 2 studies.
 `(d) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR STUDY- Of the amounts appropriated for each
 of the fiscal years 1993 through 1996 for the National Institute of Child
 Health and Human Development, the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
 acting through the Director of such Institute, shall reserve $3,000,000
 to conduct the study required in subsection (a). The amounts so reserved
 shall remain available until expended.'.
TITLE XII--NATIONAL EYE INSTITUTE
SEC. 1201. CLINICAL RESEARCH ON DIABETES EYE CARE.
 Subpart 9 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285i) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`CLINICAL RESEARCH ON EYE CARE AND DIABETES
 `SEC. 456. (a) PROGRAM OF GRANTS- The Director of the Institute, in
 consultation with the advisory council for the Institute, may award not
 more than three grants for the establishment and support of centers for
 clinical research on eye care for individuals with diabetes.
 `(b) AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES- The purposes for which a grant under subsection
 (a) may be expended include equipment for the research described in such
 subsection and the construction and modernization of facilities for such
 research.'.
TITLE XIII--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS AND STROKE
SEC. 1301. RESEARCH ON MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS.
 Subpart 10 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 285j et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 section:
`RESEARCH ON MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS
 `SEC. 460. The Director of the Institute shall conduct and support research on
 multiple sclerosis, especially research on effects of genetics and hormonal
 changes on the progress of the disease.'.
TITLE XIV--NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES
SEC. 1401. APPLIED TOXICOLOGICAL RESEARCH AND TESTING PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subpart 12 of part C of title IV of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 285l) is amended  by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`APPLIED TOXICOLOGICAL RESEARCH AND TESTING PROGRAM
 `SEC. 463A. (a) There is established within the Institute a program for
 conducting applied research and testing regarding toxicology, which program
 shall be known as the Applied Toxicological Research and Testing Program.
 `(b) In carrying out the program established under subsection (a), the
 Director of the Institute shall, with respect to toxicology, carry out
 activities--
 `(1) to expand knowledge of the health effects of environmental agents;
 `(2) to broaden the spectrum of toxicology information that is obtained on
 selected chemicals;
 `(3) to develop and validate assays and protocols, including alternative
 methods that can reduce or eliminate the use of animals in acute or chronic
 safety testing;
 `(4) to establish criteria for the validation and regulatory acceptance of
 alternative testing and to recommend a process through which scientifically
 validated alternative methods can be accepted for regulatory use;
 `(5) to communicate the results of research to government agencies, to
 medical, scientific, and regulatory communities, and to the public; and
 `(6) to integrate related activities of the Department of Health and Human
 Services.'.
 (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 463 of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 285l) is amended by inserting after `Sciences' the following:
 `(hereafter in this subpart referred to as the `Institute')'.
TITLE XV--NATIONAL LIBRARY OF MEDICINE
Subtitle A--General Provisions
SEC. 1501. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 465(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 286(b)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end of paragraph (5);
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (8); and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraphs:
 `(6) publicize the availability from the Library of the products and services
 described in any of paragraphs (1) through (5);
 `(7) promote the use of computers and telecommunications by health
 professionals (including health professionals in rural areas) for the purpose
 of improving access to biomedical information for health care delivery and
 medical research; and'.
 (b) LIMITATION REGARDING GRANTS- Section 474(b)(2) of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 286b-S(b)(2)) is amended by striking `$750,000'
 and inserting `$1,000,000'.
 (c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) REPEAL OF CERTAIN AUTHORITY- Section 215 of the Department of Health
 and Human Services Appropriations Act, 1988, as contained in section 101(h)
 of Public Law 100-202 (101 Stat. 1329-275), is repealed.
 (2) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN NEW AUTHORITY- With respect to the authority
 established for the National Library of Medicine in section 465(b)(6) of
 the Public Health Service Act, as added by subsection (a) of this section,
 such authority shall be effective as if the authority had been established
 on December 22, 1987.
SEC. 1502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR GENERAL PROGRAM.
 Subpart 1 of part D of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 286 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 468. (a) For the purpose of carrying out this subpart, there are
 authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such
 sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996. Such
 authorizations of appropriations are in addition to any other authorization
 of appropriations that is available for such purpose.
 `(b) Amounts appropriated under subsection (a) and made available for grants
 or contracts under any of sections 472 through 476 shall remain available
 until the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the
 amounts were appropriated.'.
Subtitle B--Financial Assistance
SEC. 1511. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM OF GRANTS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF EDUCATION
TECHNOLOGIES.
 Section 473 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 286b-4) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) The Secretary shall make grants to public or nonprofit private
 institutions for the purpose of carrying out projects of research on,
 and development and demonstration of, new education technologies.
 `(2) The purposes for which a grant under paragraph (1) may be made include
 projects concerning--
 `(A) computer-assisted teaching and testing of clinical competence at health
 professions and research institutions;
 `(B) the effective transfer of new information from research laboratories
 to appropriate clinical applications;
 `(C) the expansion of the laboratory and clinical uses of computer-stored
 research databases; and
 `(D) the testing of new technologies for training health care professionals.
 `(3) The Secretary may not make a grant under paragraph (1) unless the
 applicant for the grant agrees to make the projects available with respect
 to--
 `(A)  assisting in the training of health professions students; and
 `(B) enhancing and improving the capabilities of health professionals
 regarding research and teaching.'.
SEC. 1512. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 469 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 286b) is amended in
 the first sentence by striking `there are authorized' and all that follows
 and inserting the following: `there are authorized to be appropriated
 $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for
 each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'.
Subtitle C--National Center for Biotechnology Information
SEC. 1521. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 478(c) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 286c(c)) is
 amended in the first sentence--
 (1) by inserting after `appropriated' the following: `, in addition to the
 authorization of appropriations provided in section 468,'; and
 (2) by striking `there are authorized' and all that follows and inserting
 the following: `there are authorized to be appropriated $18,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
 years 1994 through 1996.'.
Subtitle D--National Information Center on Health Services Research and
Health Care Technology
SEC. 1531. ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTER.
 Part D of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 286 et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new subpart:
`Subpart 4--National Information Center on Health Services Research and
Health Care Technology
`NATIONAL INFORMATION CENTER
 `SEC. 478A. (a) There is established within the Library an entity to be known
 as the National Information Center on Health Services Research and Health
 Care Technology (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Center').
 `(b) The purpose of the Center is the collection, storage, analysis,
 retrieval, and dissemination of information on health services research and
 on health care technology, including the assessment of such technology. Such
 purpose includes developing and maintaining data bases and developing and
 implementing methods of carrying out such purpose.
 `(c) The Secretary, acting through the Center, shall coordinate the activities
 carried out under this section through the Center with related activities
 of the Administrator for Health Care Policy and Research.
 `(d) For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to
 be appropriated $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'.
SEC. 1532. CONFORMING PROVISIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 904(c) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 299a-2(c)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) REQUIRED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT- The Administrator and the Director of
 the National Library of Medicine shall enter into an agreement providing
 for the implementation of section 478A.'.
 (b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- The amendments made by section 1531 and by
 subsection (a) of this section may not be construed to terminate the
 information center on health care technologies and health care technology
 assessment established under section 904 of the Public Health Service Act,
 as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act. Such
 center shall be considered to be the center established in section 478A
 of the Public Health Service Act, as added by section 1531 of this Act,
 and shall be subject to the provisions of such section 478A.
TITLE XVI--OTHER AGENCIES OF NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
Subtitle A--Division of Research Resources
SEC. 1601. REDESIGNATION OF DIVISION AS NATIONAL CENTER FOR RESEARCH RESOURCES.
 Title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 401(b)(2)(B), by amending such subparagraph to read as follows:
 `(B) The National Center for Research Resources.'; and
 (2) in part E--
 (A) in the heading for subpart 1, by striking `Division of' and inserting
 `National Center for';
 (B) in section 479, by striking `the Division of Research Resources'
 and inserting the following: `the National Center for Research Resources
 (hereafter in this subpart referred to as the `Center')';
 (C) in sections 480 and 481, by striking `the Division of Research Resources'
 each place such term appears and inserting `the Center'; and
 (D) in sections 480 and 481, as amended by subparagraph (C), by striking
 `the Division' each place such term appears and inserting `the Center'.
SEC. 1602. BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH FACILITIES.
 Subpart 1 of part E of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 287 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH FACILITIES
 `SEC. 481A. (a) MODERNIZATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Director of NIH, acting through the Director of the
 Center, may make grants to public and nonprofit private entities to expand,
 remodel, renovate, or alter existing research facilities or construct new
 research facilities, subject to the provisions of this section.
 `(2) CONSTRUCTION AND COST OF CONSTRUCTION- For purposes of this section,
 the terms `construction' and `cost of construction' include the construction
 of new buildings and the expansion, renovation, remodeling, and alteration
 of existing buildings, including architects' fees, but do not include the
 cost of acquisition of land or off-site improvements.
 `(b) SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL REVIEW BOARDS FOR MERIT-BASED REVIEW OF
 PROPOSALS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL; APPROVAL AS PRECONDITION TO GRANTS-
 `(A) There is established within the Center a Scientific and Technical
 Review Board on Biomedical and Behavioral Research Facilities (hereafter
 referred to in this section as the `Board').
 `(B) The Director of the Center may approve an application for a grant
 under subsection (a) only if the Board has under paragraph (2) recommended
 the application for approval.
 `(2) DUTIES-
 `(A) The Board shall provide advice to the Director of the Center and the
 advisory council established under section 480 (hereafter in this section
 referred to as the `Advisory Council') on carrying out this section.
 `(B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Board shall make a determination
 of the merit of each application submitted for a grant under subsection
 (a), after consideration of the requirements established in subsection (c),
 and shall report the results of the determination to the Director of the
 Center and the Advisory Council. Such determinations shall be conducted in
 a manner consistent with procedures established under section 492.
 `(C) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Board shall, in the case of
 applications recommended for approval, make recommendations to the Director
 and the Advisory Council on the amount that should be provided in the grant.
 `(D) In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Board shall prepare an annual
 report for the Director of the Center and the Advisory Council describing
 the activities of the Board in the fiscal year for which the report is
 made. Each such report shall be available to the public, and shall--
 `(i) summarize and analyze expenditures made under this section;
 `(ii) provide a summary of the types, numbers, and amounts of applications
 that were recommended for grants under subsection (a) but that were not
 approved by the Director of the Center; and
 `(iii) contain the recommendations of the Board for any changes in the
 administration of this section.
 `(3) MEMBERSHIP-
 `(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Board shall be composed of such
 appointed and ex officio members as the Director of the Center may determine.
 `(B) Not more than 3 individuals who are officers or employees of the
 Federal Government may serve as members of the Board.
 `(C) Of the members of the Board--
 `(i) 12 shall be appointed by the Director of the Center (without regard
 to the civil service laws); and
 `(ii) 1 shall be an official of the National Science Foundation designated
 by the National Science Board.
 `(4) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS REGARDING MEMBERSHIP- In selecting individuals for
 membership on the Board, the Director of the Center shall ensure that the
 members are individuals who, by the virtue of their training or experience,
 are eminently qualified to perform peer review functions. In selecting such
 individuals for such membership, the Director of the Center shall ensure
 that the members of the Board collectively--
 `(A) are experienced in the planning, construction, financing, and
 administration of entities that conduct biomedical or behavioral research
 sciences;
 `(B) are  knowledgeable in making determinations of the need of entities
 for biomedical or behavioral research facilities, including such facilities
 for the dentistry, nursing, pharmacy, and allied health professions;
 `(C) are knowledgeable in evaluating the relative priorities for applications
 for grants under subsection (a) in view of the overall research needs of
 the United States; and
 `(D) are experienced with emerging centers of excellence, as described in
 subsection (c)(3).
 `(4) CERTAIN AUTHORITIES-
 `(A) In carrying out paragraph (2), the Board may establish subcommittees,
 convene workshops and conferences, and collect data as the Board considers
 appropriate.
 `(B) In carrying out paragraph (2), the Board may establish subcommittees
 within the Board. Such subcommittees may hold meetings as determined
 necessary to enable the subcommittee to carry out its duties.
 `(5) TERMS-
 `(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), each appointed member of the
 Board shall hold office for a term of 4 years. Any member appointed to
 fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which such
 member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of
 the term of the predecessor.
 `(B) Of the initial members appointed to the Board (as specified by the
 Director of the Center when making the appointments)--
 `(i) 3 shall hold office for a term of 3 years;
 `(ii) 3 shall hold office for a term of 2 years; and
 `(iii) 3 shall hold office for a term of 1 year.
 `(C) No member is eligible for reappointment to the Board until 1 year has
 elapsed after the end of the most recent term of the member.
 `(6) COMPENSATION- Members of the Board who are not officers or employees
 of the United States shall receive for each day the members are engaged
 in the performance of the functions of the Board compensation at the same
 rate received by members of other national advisory councils established
 under this title.
 `(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Center may make a grant under subsection
 (a) only if the applicant for the grant meets the following conditions:
 `(A) The applicant is determined by such Director to be competent to engage
 in the type of research for which the proposed facility is to be constructed.
 `(B) The applicant provides assurances satisfactory to the Director that--
 `(i) for not less than 20 years after completion of the construction,
 the facility will be used for the purposes of research for which it is to
 be constructed;
 `(ii) sufficient funds will be available to meet the non-Federal share of
 the cost of constructing the facility;
 `(iii) sufficient funds will be available, when construction is completed,
 for the effective use of the facility for the research for which it is
 being constructed; and
 `(iv) the proposed construction will expand the applicant's capacity
 for research, or is necessary to improve or maintain the quality of the
 applicant's research.
 `(C) The applicant meets reasonable qualifications established by the
 Director with respect to--
 `(i) the relative scientific and technical merit of the applications,
 and the relative effectiveness of the proposed facilities, in expanding
 the capacity for biomedical or behavioral research and in improving the
 quality of such research;
 `(ii) the quality of the research or training, or both, to be carried out
 in the facilities involved;
 `(iii) the need of the applicant for such facilities in order to maintain
 or expand the applicant's research and training mission;
 `(iv) the congruence of the research activities to be carried out within
 the facility with the research and investigator manpower needs of the United
 States; and
 `(v) the age and condition of existing research facilities and equipment.
 `(D) The applicant has demonstrated a commitment to enhancing and expanding
 the research productivity of the applicant.
 `(2) CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN FACTORS- In making grants under subsection (a),
 the Director of the Center may, in addition to the requirements established
 in paragraph (1), consider the following factors:
 `(A) To what extent the applicant has the capacity to broaden the scope of
 research and research training programs of the applicant by promoting--
 `(i) interdisciplinary research;
 `(ii) research on emerging technologies, including those involving novel
 analytical techniques or computational methods; or
 `(iii) other novel research mechanisms or programs.
 `(B) To what extent the applicant has broadened the scope of research and
 research training programs of qualified institutions by promoting genomic
 research with an emphasis on interdisciplinary research, including research
 related to pediatric investigations.
 `(3) INSTITUTIONS OF EMERGING EXCELLENCE- Of the amounts appropriated under
 subsection (i) for a fiscal year, the Director of the Center shall make
 available 25 percent for grants under subsection (a) to applicants that,
 in addition to meeting the requirements established in paragraph (1), have
 demonstrated emerging excellence in biomedical or behavioral research,
 as follows:
 `(A) The applicant has a plan for research or training advancement and
 possesses the ability to carry out the plan.
 `(B) The applicant carries out research and research training programs
 that have a special relevance to a problem, concern, or unmet health need
 of the United States.
 `(C) The applicant has been productive in research or research development
 and training.
 `(D) The applicant--
 `(i) has been designated as a center of excellence under section 782;
 `(ii) is located in a geographic area a significant percentage of whose
 population has a health-status deficit, and the applicant provides health
 services to such population; or
 `(iii) is located in a geographic area in which a deficit in health care
 technology, services, or research resources may adversely affect health status
 of the population of the area in the future, and the applicant is carrying out
 activities with respect to protecting the health status of such population.
 `(d) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Director of the Center may make a grant
 under subsection (a) only if an application for the grant is submitted to
 the Director and the application is in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Director
 determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
 `(e) AMOUNT OF GRANT; PAYMENTS-
 `(1)  AMOUNT- The amount of any grant awarded under subsection (a) shall
 be determined by the Director of the Center, except that such amount shall
 not exceed--
 `(A) 50 percent of the necessary cost of the construction of a proposed
 facility as determined by the Director; or
 `(B) in the case of a multipurpose facility, 40 percent of that part of
 the necessary cost of construction that the Director determines to be
 proportionate to the contemplated use of the facility.
 `(2)  RESERVATION OF AMOUNTS- On approval of any application for a grant
 under subsection (a), the Director of the Center shall reserve, from any
 appropriation available therefore, the amount of such grant, and shall pay
 such amount, in advance or by way of reimbursement, and in such installments
 consistent with the construction progress, as the Director may determine
 appropriate. The reservation of the Director of any amount by the Director
 under this paragraph may be amended by the Director, either on the approval
 of an amendment of the application or on the revision of the estimated cost
 of construction of the facility.
 `(3)  EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN COSTS- In determining the amount of any grant under
 this subsection (a), there shall be excluded from the cost of construction
 an amount equal to the sum of--
 `(A) the amount of any other Federal grant that the applicant has obtained,
 or is assured of obtaining, with respect to construction that is to be
 financed in part by a grant authorized under this section; and
 `(B) the amount of any non-Federal funds required to be expended as a
 condition of such other Federal grant.
 `(4)  WAIVER OF LIMITATIONS- The limitations imposed by paragraph 1 may
 be waived at the discretion of the  Director for applicants meeting the
 conditions described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c).
 `(f) RECAPTURE OF PAYMENTS- If, not later than 20 years after the completion
 of  construction for which a grant has been awarded under subsection (a)--
 `(1) the applicant or other owner of the facility shall cease to be a public
 or nonprofit private entity; or
 `(2) the facility shall cease to be used for the research purposes for
 which it was constructed (unless the Director determines, in accordance
 with regulations, that there is good cause for releasing the applicant or
 other owner from obligation to do so);
the United States shall be entitled to recover from the applicant or other
owner of the facility the amount bearing the same ratio to the current value
(as determined by an agreement between the parties or by action brought in
the United States District Court for the district in which such facility is
situated) of the facility as the amount of the Federal participation bore
to the cost of the construction of such facility.
 `(g) NONINTERFERENCE WITH ADMINISTRATION OF ENTITIES- Except as otherwise
 specifically provided in this section, nothing contained in this part shall
 be construed as authorizing any department, agency, officer, or employee of
 the United States to exercise any direction, supervision, or control over,
 or impose any requirement or condition with respect to the administration
 of any entity funded under this part.
 `(h) GUIDELINES- Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of
 this section, the Director of the Center, after consultation with the Advisory
 Council, shall issue guidelines with respect to grants under subsection (a).
 `(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, $125,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, $150,000,000 for fiscal year
 1995, and $175,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 1603. CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM FOR NATIONAL PRIMATE RESEARCH CENTER.
 Subpart 1 of part E of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
 by section 1602 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`CONSTRUCTION OF REGIONAL CENTERS FOR RESEARCH ON PRIMATES
 `SEC. 481B. (a) With respect to activities carried out by the National Center
 for Research Resources to support regional centers for research on primates,
 the Director of NIH shall, for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1996,
 reserve from the amounts appropriated under section 481A(i) $7,000,000 for
 the purpose of making awards of grants and contracts to public or nonprofit
 private entities to construct, renovate, or otherwise improve such regional
 centers. The reservation of such amounts for any fiscal year is subject to
 the availability of qualified applicants for such awards.
 `(b) The Director of NIH may not make a grant or enter into a contract
 under subsection (a) unless the applicant for such assistance agrees,
 with respect to the costs to be incurred by the applicant in carrying out
 the purpose described in such subsection, to make available (directly or
 through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions
 in cash toward such costs in an amount equal to not less than $1 for each
 $4 of Federal funds provided in such assistance.'.
Subtitle B--National Center for Nursing Research
SEC. 1611. REDESIGNATION OF NATIONAL CENTER FOR NURSING RESEARCH AS NATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF NURSING RESEARCH.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subpart 3 of part E of title IV of the Public Health Service
 Act (42 U.S.C. 287c et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 483--
 (A) in the heading for the section, by striking `CENTER' and inserting
 `INSTITUTE'; and
 (B) by striking `The general purpose' and all that follows through `is' and
 inserting the following: `The general purpose of the National Institute of
 Nursing Research (hereafter in this subpart referred to as the `Institute')
 is';
 (2) in section 484, by striking `Center' each place such term appears and
 inserting `Institute';
 (3) in section 485--
 (A) in subsection (a), in each of paragraphs (1) through (3), by striking
 `Center' each place such term appears and inserting `Institute';
 (B) in subsection (b)--
 (i) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking `Center' and inserting `Institute'; and
 (ii) in paragraph (3)(A), in the first sentence, by striking `Center'
 and inserting `Institute'; and
 (C) in subsections (d) through (g), by striking `Center' each place such
 term appears and inserting `Institute'; and
 (4) in section 485A (as redesignated by section 141(a)(1) of this Act),
 by striking `Center' each place such term appears and inserting `Institute'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) ORGANIZATION OF NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF HEALTH- Section 401(b) of the
 Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281(b)) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(Q) The National Institute of Nursing Research.'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (D).
 (2) TRANSFER OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS- Sections 483 through 485A of the
 Public Health Service Act, as amended by subsection (a) of this section--
 (A) are transferred to part C of title IV of such Act;
 (B) are redesignated as sections 464V through 464Y of such part; and
 (C) are inserted, in the appropriate sequence, after section 464U of
 such part.
 (3) HEADING FOR NEW SUBPART- Title IV of the Public Health Service Act,
 as amended by the preceding provisions of this section, is amended--
 (A) in part C, by inserting before section 464V the following new heading:
`Subpart 17--National Institute of Nursing Research'; and
 (B) by striking the heading for subpart 3 of part E.
 (4) CROSS-REFERENCES- Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by
 the preceding provisions of this section, is amended in subpart 17 of part C--
 (A) in section 464W, by striking `section 483' and inserting `section 464V';
 (B) in section 464X(g), by striking `section 486' and inserting `section
 464Y'; and
 (C) in section 464Y, in the last sentence, by striking `section 485(g)'
 and inserting `section 464X(g)'.
Subtitle C--National Center for Human Genome Research
SEC. 1621. PURPOSE OF CENTER.
 Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by sections 141(a)(1)
 and 1611(b)(1)(B) of this Act, is amended--
 (1) in section 401(b)(2), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) The National Center for Human Genome Research.'; and
 (2) in part E, by adding at the end the following new subpart:
`Subpart 4--National Center for Human Genome Research
`PURPOSE OF THE CENTER
 `SEC. 485B. (a) The general purpose of the National Center for Human Genome
 Research (hereafter in this subpart referred to as the `Center') is to
 characterize the structure and function of the human genome, including the
 mapping and sequencing of individual genes. Such purpose includes--
 `(1) planning and coordinating the research goal of the genome project;
 `(2) reviewing and funding research proposals;
 `(3) developing training programs;
 `(4) coordinating international genome research;
 `(5) communicating advances in genome science to the public; and
 `(6) reviewing and funding proposals to address the ethical issues associated
 with the genome project.
 `(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), of the amounts appropriated
 to carry out subsection (a) for a fiscal year, the Director of the Center
 shall make available not less than 5 percent for carrying out paragraph
 (6) of such subsection.
 `(2) With respect to providing funds under subsection (a)(6) for proposals to
 address the ethical issues associated with the genome project, paragraph (1)
 shall not apply for a fiscal year if the Director of the Center certifies
 to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives,
 and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, that the
 Director has determined that an insufficient number of such proposals meet
 the applicable requirements of sections 491 and 492.'.
TITLE XVII--AWARDS AND TRAINING
Subtitle A--National Research Service Awards
SEC. 1701. REQUIREMENT REGARDING WOMEN AND INDIVIDUALS FROM DISADVANTAGED
BACKGROUNDS.
 Section 487(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288(a)(4))
 is amended by adding at the end the following paragraph:
 `(4) The Secretary shall carry out paragraph (1) in a manner that will result
 in the recruitment of women, and individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds,
 into fields of biomedical or behavioral research and in the provision of
 research training to women and such individuals.'.
Subtitle B--Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
SEC. 1711. LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM.
 Section 487A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288-1) is amended
 to read as follows:
`LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR RESEARCH WITH RESPECT TO ACQUIRED IMMUNE
DEFICIENCY SYNDROME
 `SEC. 487A. (a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) AUTHORITY FOR PROGRAM- Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall
 carry out a program of entering into agreements with appropriately qualified
 health professionals under which such health professionals agree to conduct,
 as employees of the National Institutes of Health, research with respect to
 acquired immune deficiency syndrome in consideration of the Federal Government
 agreeing to repay, for each year of such service, not more than $20,000 of the
 principal and interest of the educational loans of such health professionals.
 `(2) LIMITATION- The Secretary may not enter into an agreement with a health
 professional pursuant to paragraph (1) unless such professional--
 `(A) has a substantial amount of educational loans relative to income; and
 `(B)(i) was not employed at the National Institutes of Health during the
 1-year period preceding the date of the enactment of the Health Professions
 Reauthorization Act of 1988; or
 `(ii) agrees to serve as an employee of such Institutes for purposes of
 paragraph (1) for a period of not less than 3 years.'.
 `(b) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS- With respect to the National
 Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program established in subpart III
 of part D of title III, the provisions of such subpart shall, except as
 inconsistent with subsection (a) of this section, apply to the program
 established in such subsection (a) in the same manner and to the same extent
 as such provisions apply to the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment
 Program established in such subpart.
 `(c) FUNDING; REIMBURSABLE TRANSFERS-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out
 this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1996.
 `(2) TRANSFERS FOR RELATED PROGRAM- The Commissioner of Food and Drugs
 may carry out for the Food and Drug Administration a program similar to
 the program established in subsection (a), which program shall be carried
 out with respect to the review of applications concerning acquired immune
 deficiency syndrome that are submitted to such Commissioner. From the
 amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary
 may transfer amounts to the Commissioner for the purpose of carrying out such
 program. The Commissioner shall provide a reimbursement to the Secretary for
 the amount so transferred, and the reimbursement shall be available only for
 the program established in subsection (a). Any transfer and reimbursement
 made for purposes of this paragraph for a fiscal year shall be completed
 by April 1 of such year.'.
Subtitle C--Loan Repayment for Research Generally
SEC. 1721. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as redesignated by
 section 141(a)(2) of this Act and as amended by section 1102 of this Act,
 is amended by inserting after section 487B the following new section:
`LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR RESEARCH GENERALLY
 `SEC. 487C. (a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) AUTHORITY FOR PROGRAM- Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall
 carry out a program of entering into agreements with appropriately qualified
 health professionals under which such health professionals agree to conduct
 research, as employees of the National Institutes of Health, in consideration
 of the Federal Government agreeing to repay, for each year of such service,
 not more than $20,000 of the principal and interest of the educational
 loans of such health professionals.
 `(2) LIMITATION- The Secretary may not enter into an agreement with a health
 professional pursuant to paragraph (1) unless such professional--
 `(A) has a substantial amount of educational loans relative to income; and
 `(B)(i) was not employed at the National Institutes of Health during the
 1-year period preceding the date of the enactment of the Health Professions
 Reauthorization Act of 1988; or
 `(ii) agrees to serve as an employee of such Institutes for purposes of
 paragraph (1) for a period of not less than 3 years.'.
 `(b) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS- With respect to the National
 Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program established in subpart III
 of part D of title III, the provisions of such subpart shall, except as
 inconsistent with subsection (a) of this section, apply to the program
 established in such subsection (a) in the same manner and to the same extent
 as such provisions apply to the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment
 Program established in such subpart.
 `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section other than with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome, there
 are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such
 sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'.
Subtitle D--Scholarship and Loan Repayment Programs Regarding Professional
Skills Needed by Certain Agencies
SEC. 1731. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAMS FOR NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as redesignated by
 section 141(a)(2) of this Act and as amended by section 1721 of this Act,
 is amended by inserting after section 487C the following new sections:
`UNDERGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM REGARDING PROFESSIONS NEEDED BY NATIONAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTES
 `SEC. 487D. (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to section 487(a)(1)(C), the Secretary, acting
 through the Director of NIH, may carry out a program of entering into
 contracts with individuals described in paragraph (2) under which--
 `(A) the Director of NIH agrees to provide to the individuals scholarships for
 pursuing, as undergraduates at accredited institutions of higher education,
 academic programs appropriate for careers in professions needed by the
 National Institutes of Health; and
 `(B) the individuals agree to serve as employees of the National Institutes
 of Health, for the period described in subsection (c), in positions that are
 needed by the National Institutes of Health and for which the individuals
 are qualified.
 `(2) INDIVIDUALS FROM DISADVANTAGED BACKGROUNDS- The individuals referred
 to in paragraph (1) are individuals who--
 `(A) are enrolled or accepted for enrollment as full-time undergraduates
 at accredited institutions of higher education; and
 `(B) are from disadvantaged backgrounds.
 `(b) FACILITATION OF INTEREST OF STUDENTS IN CAREERS AT NATIONAL INSTITUTES
 OF HEALTH- In providing employment to individuals pursuant to contracts
 under subsection (a)(1), the Director of NIH shall carry out activities to
 facilitate the interest of the individuals in pursuing careers as employees
 of the National Institutes of Health.
 `(c) PERIOD OF OBLIGATED SERVICE-
 `(1) DURATION OF SERVICE- For purposes of subparagraph (B) of subsection
 (a)(1), the period of service for which an individual is obligated to serve
 as an employee of the National Institutes of Health is 12 months for each
 academic year for which the scholarship under such subsection is provided.
 `(2) SCHEDULE FOR SERVICE-
 `(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Director of NIH may not provide a
 scholarship under subsection (a) unless the individual applying for the
 scholarship agrees that--
 `(i) the individual will serve as an employee of the National Institutes of
 Health full-time for not less than 10 consecutive weeks of each year during
 which the individual is attending the educational institution involved and
 receiving such a scholarship;
 `(ii) the period of service as such an employee that the individual is
 obligated to provide under clause (i) is in addition to the period of
 service as such an employee that the individual is obligated to provide
 under subsection (a)(1)(B); and
 `(iii) not later than 60 days after obtaining the educational degree
 involved, the individual will begin serving full-time as such an employee
 in satisfaction of the period of service that the individual is obligated
 to provide under subsection (a)(1)(B).
 `(B) The Director of NIH may defer the obligation of an individual to provide
 a period of service under subsection (a)(1)(B), if the Director determines
 that such a deferral is appropriate.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO APPOINTMENT AND
 COMPENSATION- For any period in which an individual provides service
 as an employee of the National Institutes of Health in satisfaction of
 the obligation of the individual under subsection (a)(1)(B) or paragraph
 (2)(A)(i), the individual may be appointed as such an employee without regard
 to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, relating to appointment
 and compensation.
 `(d) PROVISIONS REGARDING SCHOLARSHIP-
 `(1) APPROVAL OF ACADEMIC PROGRAM- The Director of NIH may not provide a
 scholarship under subsection (a) for an academic year unless--
 `(A) the individual applying for the scholarship has submitted to the
 Director a proposed academic program for the year and the Director has
 approved the program; and
 `(B) the individual agrees that the program will not be altered without
 the approval of the Director.
 `(2) ACADEMIC STANDING- The Director of NIH may not provide a scholarship
 under subsection (a) for an academic year unless the individual applying for
 the scholarship agrees to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing,
 as determined by the educational institution involved in accordance with
 regulations issued by the Secretary.
 `(3) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT- The Director of NIH may not provide a scholarship
 under subsection (a) for an academic year in an amount exceeding $20,000.
 `(4) AUTHORIZED USES- A scholarship provided under subsection (a) may be
 expended only for tuition expenses, other reasonable educational expenses,
 and reasonable living expenses incurred in attending the school involved.
 `(5) CONTRACT REGARDING DIRECT PAYMENTS TO INSTITUTION- In the case of
 an institution of higher education with respect to which a scholarship
 under subsection (a) is provided, the Director of NIH may enter into a
 contract with the institution under which the amounts provided in the
 scholarship for tuition and other educational expenses are paid directly
 to the institution. Payments to the institution under the contract may be
 made without regard to section 3324 of title 31, United States Code.
 `(e) PENALTIES FOR BREACH OF SCHOLARSHIP CONTRACT- The provisions of section
 338E shall apply to the program established in subsection (a) to the same
 extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply to the National
 Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program established in section 338B.
 `(f) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Director of NIH may not provide a
 scholarship under subsection (a) unless an application for the scholarship
 is submitted to the Director and the application is in such form, is made
 in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information
 as the Director determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
 `(g) AVAILABILITY OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Amounts appropriated
 for a fiscal year for scholarships under this section shall remain available
 until the expiration of the second fiscal year beginning after the fiscal
 year for which the amounts were appropriated.
`LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM REGARDING CLINICAL RESEARCHERS FROM DISADVANTAGED
BACKGROUNDS
 `SEC. 487E. (a) IMPLEMENTATION OF PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to section 487(a)(1)(C), the Secretary, acting
 through the Director of NIH may, subject to paragraph (2), carry out a program
 of entering into contracts with appropriately qualified health professionals
 who are from disadvantaged backgrounds under which such health professionals
 agree to conduct clinical research as employees of the National Institutes
 of Health in consideration of the Federal Government agreeing to pay,
 for each year of such service, not more than $20,000 of the principal and
 interest of the educational loans of the health professionals.
 `(2) LIMITATION- The Director of NIH may not enter into a contract with a
 health professional pursuant to paragraph (1) unless such professional has
 a substantial amount of education loans relative to income.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS REGARDING OBLIGATED SERVICE- Except
 to the extent inconsistent with this section, the provisions of sections
 338C and 338E shall apply to the program established in paragraph (1) to the
 same extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply to the National
 Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program established in section 338B.
 `(b) AVAILABILITY OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Amounts appropriated
 for a fiscal year for contracts under subsection (a) shall remain available
 until the expiration of the second fiscal year beginning after the fiscal
 year for which the amounts were appropriated.'.
SEC. 1732. FUNDING.
 Section 487(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288(a)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) provide contracts for scholarships and loan repayments in accordance
 with sections 487D and 487E, subject to providing not more than an aggregate
 50 such contracts during the fiscal years 1993 through 1996.'.
Subtitle D--Funding
SEC. 1741. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 487(d) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288(d))
 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by amending the sentence to read as follows:
 `For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be
 appropriated $375,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be
 necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.'; and
 (2) in paragraph (3)--
 (A) by striking `one-half of one percent' each place such term appears and
 inserting `1 percent'; and
 (B) by inserting `785,' after `784,'.
TITLE XVIII--NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH
SEC. 1801. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 Section 499A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289i) is amended--
 (1) in the second sentence of subsection (c)(1)(A), by inserting `, except
 the ex officio members,' after `Foundation'; and
 (2) in subsection (i)(1), by striking `1995' and inserting `1996'.
TITLE XIX--RESTORATION AND RENOVATION OF FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
SEC. 1901. ACQUISITION OF LAND AND FACILITIES.
 Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 14(a)(2)
 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part J--Restoration and Renovation of Facilities and Infrastructure
`SEC. 499N. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR RESEARCH.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The Secretary, acting through the Director of
 NIH, may carry out a comprehensive program to provide for the replacement
 or refurbishment of less than adequate buildings, utility equipment and
 distribution systems (including the resources that provide electrical and
 other utilities, chilled water, air handling, and other services that
 the Secretary, acting through the Director, deems necessary), roads,
 walkways, parking areas, and grounds that underpin the laboratory and
 clinical facilities of the National Institutes of Health. Such program may
 provide for the undertaking of new projects that are consistent with the
 objectives of this section, such as encircling the National Institutes of
 Health Federal enclave with an adequate chilled water conduit.
 `(b) REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) DESIGN OF PROGRAM- In establishing the program under subsection (a),
 the Secretary shall ensure that such program is designed to modernize the
 existing research and clinical laboratory infrastructure of the National
 Institutes of Health in the shortest possible time consistent with the
 purposes of the program.
 `(2) FUTURE EXPANSION- In designing the program under subsection (a),
 the Secretary may make reasonable allowance for future expansion and usual
 employee amenities, such as cafeteria services and vehicle parking.
 `(3) NONDISRUPTION OF OPERATIONS- In carrying out the program established
 under subsection (a), the Director of NIH shall, to the extent feasible,
 plan renovations and construction in such a manner that significant elements
 of the research program at the Institutes are not significantly disrupted.
`SEC. 499O. ACQUISITION OF LAND.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director of NIH may purchase not to exceed a total of
 300 acres of land for the establishment of a satellite campus in Maryland
 for the purpose of enhancing the intramural research capacity of the National
 Institutes of Health.
 `(b) STUDY- Prior to the purchase of land under subsection (a), the
 Director of NIH shall conduct a study concerning the expansion needs of
 the National Institutes of Health and the purpose for which the land is
 to be purchased. A report concerning such study shall be submitted to the
 Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, the Committee
 on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
 the House of Representatives, the Committee on Labor and Human Resources
 of the Senate, the Committee on Government Operations  of the House of
 Representatives, and the Committee on Government Operations of the Senate.'.
SEC. 1902. WARREN GRANT MAGNUSON CLINICAL CENTER.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- For the purpose of improving the program of the Warren
 Grant Magnuson Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health
 (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Clinical Center'), the
 Director of such Institutes may establish and implement a program for the
 renovation of the facilities of the Clinical Center or the construction of
 replacement facilities. Such Director may conduct feasibility studies to
 determine the appropriate action to be taken concerning the Clinical Center.
 (b) TRANSFER OF LAND-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through
 the Director of the National Institutes of Health, is authorized to accept
 the transfer to such Institutes of not less than 25 acres of land from
 other Federal agencies. Such land shall be suitable for the construction
 of a new research hospital and clinical center. Such land may include land
 obtained from the Secretary of the Navy, located on the reservation of the
 National Naval Medical Center, in Bethesda, Maryland.
 (2) USE AGREEMENT AND MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- The Secretary of Health
 and Human Services, acting through the Director of the National Institutes
 of Health, may enter into a Use Agreement and a Memorandum of Understanding
 with the appropriate Federal officials to accomplish the transfer of property
 pursuant to paragraph 1.
 (c) REQUIREMENTS-
 (1) FACILITIES- Any facility renovated or constructed under this section
 shall be equipped with a state-of-the-art capacity for beds and necessary
 laboratories and be comparable to current facilities of the Clinical Center
 complex, with necessary amenities for employees, volunteers, research
 subjects and visitors, including cafeteria and vehicle parking facilities.
 (2) TRANSFER OF PERSONNEL- If a new facility is constructed under this
 section for the Clinical Center, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 may expend amounts necessary to transfer the personnel and administration
 of the current facility to the new facility.
 (3) COMPLETION- Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the renovation
 or construction performed under this section shall be completed as soon
 as feasible.
 (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 for fiscal year 1993 and subsequent fiscal years. Amounts appropriated
 under the preceding sentence shall remain available until expended.
TITLE XX--RESEARCH WITH RESPECT TO ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME
SEC. 2001. REVISION AND EXTENSION OF VARIOUS PROGRAMS.
 Title XXIII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300cc et seq.) is
 amended--
 (1) in section 2304(c)(1)--
 (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting after `Director
 of such Institute' the following: `(and may provide advice to the Directors
 of other agencies of the National Institutes of Health, as appropriate)'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
 `, including recommendations on the projects of research with respect to
 diagnosing immune deficiency and with respect to predicting, diagnosing,
 preventing, and treating opportunistic cancers and infectious diseases';
 (2) in section 2311(a)(1), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
 `, including evaluations of methods of diagnosing immune deficiency and
 evaluations of methods of predicting, diagnosing, preventing, and treating
 opportunistic cancers and infectious diseases';
 (3) in section 2315--
 (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking `international research' and all that
 follows and inserting `international research and training concerning the
 natural history and pathogenesis of the human immunodeficiency virus and
 the development and evaluation of vaccines and treatments for acquired
 immune deficiency syndrome and  opportunistic infections.'; and
 (B) in subsection (f), by striking `and 1991' and inserting `through 1996';
 (4) in section 2318--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
 (i) by inserting after `The Secretary' the following: `, acting through
 the Director of the National Institutes of Health and after consultation
 with the Administrator for Health Care Policy and Research,'; and
 (ii) by striking `syndrome' and inserting `syndrome, including treatment
 and prevention of HIV infection and related conditions among women';  and
 (B) in subsection (e), by striking `1991.' and inserting the following:
 `1991, and $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1996.';
 (5) in section 2320(b)(1)(A), by striking `syndrome' and inserting `syndrome
 and the natural history of such infection';
 (6)(A) in section 2351(a)--
 (i) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (8) as paragraphs (3) through
 (9); and
 (ii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) shall develop and implement a comprehensive plan for the conduct
 and support of such research by the agencies of the National Institutes of
 Health, which plan shall specify the objectives to be achieved, the date
 by which the objectives are expected to be achieved, and an estimate of
 the resources needed to achieve the objectives by such date; and
 `(B) shall develop and implement a plan for evaluating the sufficiency of
 the plan developed under subparagraph (A) and for evaluating the extent to
 which activities of the National Institutes of Health have been in accordance
 with the plan;'; and
 (B) in section 2301(b)(6), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
 `, including evaluations conducted under section 2351(a)(2)(B)';
 (7) in section 2361, by striking `For purposes' and all that follows and
 inserting the following:
 `For purposes of this title:
 `(1) The term `infection', with respect to the etiologic agent for acquired
 immune deficiency syndrome, includes opportunistic cancers and infectious
 diseases and any other conditions arising from infection with such etiologic
 agent.
 `(2) The term `treatment', with respect to the etiologic agent for acquired
 immune deficiency syndrome, includes primary and secondary prophylaxis.';
 (8) in section 2315(f), by striking `there are authorized' and all that
 follows and inserting `there are authorized to be appropriated such sums
 as may be necessary for each fiscal year.';
 (9) in section 2320(e)(1), by striking `there are authorized' and all that
 follows and inserting `there are authorized to be appropriated such sums
 as may be necessary for each fiscal year.'; and
 (10) in section 2341(d), by striking `there are authorized' and all that
 follows and inserting `there are authorized to be appropriated such sums
 as may be necessary for each fiscal year.'.
TITLE XXI--CERTAIN AUTHORITIES OF CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
SEC. 2101. PREVENTION OF PROSTATE CANCER.
 Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting
 after section 317A (42 U.S.C. 247b-1) the following new section:
`PROSTATE CANCER MORTALITY PREVENTION
 `SEC. 317B. (a) GRANTS- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the
 Centers for Disease Control, may award grants to States and local health
 departments for the purpose of enabling such States and departments to
 carry out programs to--
 `(1) screen men for prostate cancer as a preventive health measure;
 `(2) provide appropriate referrals for medical treatment of men screened
 pursuant to paragraph (1) and to ensure, to the extent practicable, the
 provision of appropriate follow-up services;
 `(3) develop and disseminate public information and education programs for
 the detection and control of prostate cancer;
 `(4) improve the education, training, and skills of health professionals
 (including appropriate allied health professionals) in the detection and
 control of prostate cancer;
 `(5) establish mechanisms through which the States can monitor the quality
 of screening procedures for prostate cancer, including the interpretation
 of such procedures; and
 `(6) evaluate activities conducted under paragraphs (1) through (5) through
 appropriate surveillance or program monitoring activities.
 `(b) GRANT APPLICATIONS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT- No grant may be awarded under subsection (a), unless
 an application for such grant has been submitted to, and approved by, the
 Secretary. Such an application shall be in such form and submitted in such
 manner as the Secretary shall prescribe, and shall include--
 `(A)  a complete description of the program which is to be provided by or
 through the applicant;
 `(B) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the program to be provided
 under the grant will include education programs designed to communicate to
 men, and local health officials the significance of the early detection of
 prostate cancer;
 `(C) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant will report,
 on a quarterly basis, the number of men screened for prostate cancer and
 the number of men who were found to have prostate cancer, the number and
 type of medical referral made with respect to such men, the outcome of
 such referrals, and other information to measure program effectiveness as
 required under paragraph (2);
 `(D) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant will make
 such reports respecting the program involved as the Secretary may require; and
 `(E) such other information as the Secretary may prescribe.
 `(2) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may provide training and technical
 assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of any
 program or service carried out pursuant to this section.
 `(c) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- No grant may be awarded under subsection (a)
 unless the Secretary determines that there is satisfactory assurance that
 Federal funds made available under such a grant for any period will be so used
 as to supplement and, to the extent practical, increase the level of State,
 local, and other non-Federal funds that would, in the absence of such Federal
 funds, be made available for the program for which the grant is to be made,
 and will in no event supplant such State, local, and other non-Federal funds.
 `(d) METHOD AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENT- The Secretary shall determine the
 amount of a grant made under subsection (a). Payments under such grants may
 be made in advance on the basis of estimates or by way of reimbursement,
 with necessary adjustments on account of the underpayments or overpayments,
 and in such installments and on such terms and conditions as the Secretary
 finds necessary to carry out the purposes of such grants. Not more than 10
 percent of any grant may be obligated for administrative costs.
 `(e) SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT, AND EMPLOYEE DETAIL- The Secretary, at the request
 of a recipient of a grant under subsection (a), may reduce the amount of
 such grant by--
 `(1) the fair market value of any supplies or equipment furnished the grant
 recipient; and
 `(2) the amount of the pay, allowances, and travel expenses of any officer
 or employee of the Government when detailed to the grant recipient and the
 amount of any other costs incurred in connection with the detail of such
 officer or employee;
when the furnishing of such supplies or equipment or the detail of such an
officer or employee is for the convenience of and at the request of such grant
recipient and for the purpose of carrying out a program with respect to which
any such grant is so reduced. Such amount shall be available for payment by
the Secretary of the costs incurred in furnishing the supplies or equipment,
or in detailing the personnel, on which the reduction of such grant is based,
and such amount shall be deemed as part of the grant and shall be deemed to
have been paid to the grant recipient.
 `(f) RECORDS- Each recipient of a grant under subsection (a) shall keep such
 records as the Secretary shall prescribe, including records which fully
 disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of
 such grant, the total cost of the undertaking in connection with which
 such grant was made, and the amount of that portion of the cost of the
 undertaking supplied by other sources, and such other records as will
 facilitate an effective audit.
 `(g) AUDIT AND EXAMINATION OF RECORDS- The Secretary and the Comptroller
 General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives,
 shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books,
 documents, papers, and records of the recipient of a grant under subsection
 (a), that are pertinent to such grant.
 `(h) INDIAN TRIBES- For purposes of this section, the term `units of local
 government' includes Indian tribes.
 `(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this
 section not more than $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as
 may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.
 `(2) SET-ASIDE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts appropriated under
 paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve not more than
 20 percent for carrying out activities under this section at the national
 level.'.
SEC. 2102. NATIONAL PROGRAM OF CANCER REGISTRIES.
 Title III of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 121(a)(2)
 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part M--National Program of Cancer Registries
`SEC. 399H. NATIONAL PROGRAM OF CANCER REGISTRIES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for
 Disease Control, may make grants to States, or may make grants or enter into
 contracts with academic or nonprofit organizations designated by the State
 to operate the State's cancer registry in lieu of making a grant directly
 to the State, to support the operation of population-based, statewide cancer
 registries in order to collect, for each form of in-situ and invasive cancer
 (with the exception of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin),
 data concerning--
 `(1) demographic information about each case of cancer;
 `(2) information on the industrial or occupational history of the individuals
 with the cancers, to the extent such information is available from the
 same record;
 `(3) administrative information, including date of diagnosis and source
 of information;
 `(4) pathological data characterizing the cancer, including the cancer
 site, stage of disease (pursuant to Staging Guide), incidence, and type of
 treatment; and
 `(5) other elements determined appropriate by the Secretary.
 `(b) MATCHING FUNDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) only
 if the State, or the academic or nonprofit private organization designated
 by the State to operate the cancer registry of the State, involved agrees,
 with respect to the costs of the program, to make available (directly or
 through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions
 toward such costs in an amount that is not less than 25 percent of such
 costs or $1 for every $3 of Federal funds provided in the grant.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION; MAINTENANCE
 OF EFFORT-
 `(A) Non-Federal contributions required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or
 in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts
 provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to
 any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in
 determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(B) With respect to a State in which the purpose described in subsection
 (a) is to be carried out, the Secretary, in making a determination of
 the amount  of non-Federal contributions provided under paragraph (1),
 may include only such contributions as are in excess of the amount of such
 contributions made by the State toward the collection of data on cancer for
 the fiscal year preceding the first year for which a grant under subsection
 (a) is made with respect to the State.  The Secretary may decrease the
 amount of non-Federal contributions that otherwise would have been required
 by this subsection in those cases in which the State can demonstrate that
 decreasing such amount is appropriate because of financial hardship.
 `(c) ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- No grant shall be made by the Secretary under subsection
 (a) unless an application has been submitted to, and approved by, the
 Secretary. Such application shall be in such form, submitted in such a manner,
 and be accompanied by such information, as the Secretary may specify. No
 such application may be approved unless it contains assurances that the
 applicant will use the funds provided only for the purposes specified in
 the approved application and in accordance with the requirements of this
 section, that the application will establish such fiscal control and fund
 accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure proper disbursement
 and accounting of Federal funds paid to the applicant under subsection (a)
 of this section, and that the applicant will comply with the peer review
 requirements under sections 491 and 492.
 `(2) ASSURANCES- Each applicant, prior to receiving Federal funds under
 subsection (a), shall provide assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that
 the applicant will--
 `(A) provide for the establishment of a registry in accordance with subsection
 (a);
 `(B) comply with appropriate standards of completeness, timeliness, and
 quality of population-based cancer registry data;
 `(C) provide for the annual publication of reports of cancer data under
 subsection (a); and
 `(D) provide for the authorization under State law of the statewide cancer
 registry, including promulgation of regulations providing--
 `(i) a means to assure complete reporting of cancer cases (as described
 in subsection (a)) to the statewide cancer registry by hospitals or other
 facilities providing screening, diagnostic or therapeutic services to
 patients with respect to cancer;
 `(ii) a means to assure the complete reporting of cancer cases (as defined
 in subsection (a)) to the statewide cancer registry by physicians, surgeons,
 and all other health care practitioners diagnosing or providing treatment for
 cancer patients, except for cases directly referred to or previously admitted
 to a hospital or other facility providing screening, diagnostic or therapeutic
 services to patients in that State and reported by those facilities;
 `(iii) a means for the statewide cancer registry to access all records of
 physicians and surgeons, hospitals, outpatient clinics, nursing homes, and all
 other facilities, individuals, or agencies providing such services to patients
 which would identify cases of cancer or would establish characteristics of the
 cancer, treatment of the cancer, or medical status of any identified patient;
 `(iv) for the reporting of cancer case data to the statewide cancer registry
 in such a format, with such data elements, and in accordance with such
 standards of quality timeliness and completeness, as may be established by
 the Secretary;
 `(v) for the protection of the confidentiality of all cancer case data
 reported to the statewide cancer registry, including a prohibition on
 disclosure to any person of information reported to the statewide cancer
 registry that identifies, or could lead to the identification of, an
 individual cancer patient, except for disclosure to other State cancer
 registries and local and State health officers;
 `(vi) for a means by which confidential case data may in accordance with
 State law be disclosed to cancer researchers for the purposes of cancer
 prevention, control and research;
 `(vii) for the authorization or the conduct, by the statewide cancer registry
 or other persons and organizations, of studies utilizing statewide cancer
 registry data, including studies of the sources and causes of cancer,
 evaluations of the cost, quality, efficacy, and appropriateness of
 diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, and preventative services and
 programs relating to cancer, and any other clinical, epidemiological,
 or other cancer research; and
 `(viii) for protection for individuals complying with the law, including
 provisions specifying that no person shall be held liable in any civil
 action with respect to a cancer case report provided to the statewide cancer
 registry, or with respect to access to cancer case information provided to
 the statewide cancer registry.
 `(d) RELATIONSHIP TO CERTAIN PROGRAMS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- This section may not be construed to act as a replacement for
 or diminishment of the program carried out by the Director of the National
 Cancer Institute and designated by such Director as the Surveillance,
 Epidemiology, and End Results Program (SEER).
 `(2) SUPPLANTING OF ACTIVITIES- In areas where both such programs exist,
 the Secretary shall ensure that SEER support is not supplanted and that
 any additional activities are consistent with the guidelines provided for
 in subsection (c)(2)(C) and (D) and are appropriately coordinated with the
 existing SEER program.
 `(3) TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITY- The Secretary may not transfer administration
 responsibility for such SEER program from such Director.
 `(4) COORDINATION- To encourage the greatest possible efficiency and
 effectiveness of Federally supported efforts with respect to the activities
 described in this subsection, the Secretary shall take steps to assure the
 appropriate coordination of programs supported under this part with existing
 Federally supported cancer registry programs.
 `(e) REQUIREMENT REGARDING CERTAIN STUDY ON BREAST CANCER- In the case of
 a grant under subsection (a) to any State specified in section 399K(b), the
 Secretary may establish such conditions regarding the receipt of the grant
 as the Secretary determines are necessary to facilitate the collection of
 data for the study carried out under section 399C.
`SEC. 399I. PLANNING GRANTS REGARDING REGISTRIES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) STATES- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for
 Disease Control, may make grants to States for the purpose of developing plans
 that meet the assurances required by the Secretary under section 399B(c)(2).
 `(2) OTHER ENTITIES- For the purpose described in paragraph (1), the
 Secretary may make grants to public entities other than States  and to
 nonprofit private entities. Such a grant may be made to an entity only if
 the State in which the purpose is to be carried out has certified that the
 State approves the entity as qualified to carry out the purpose.
 `(b) APPLICATION- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a)
 only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary, the
 application contains the certification required in subsection (a)(2) (if
 the application is for a grant under such subsection), and the application
 is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements,
 assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to
 carry out this section.
`SEC. 399J. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN OPERATIONS OF STATEWIDE CANCER REGISTRIES.
 `The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease
 Control involved, may, directly or through grants and contracts, or both,
 provide technical assistance to the States in the establishment and operation
 of statewide registries, including assistance in the development of model
 legislation for statewide cancer registries and assistance in establishing
 a computerized reporting and data processing system.
`SEC. 399K. STUDY IN CERTAIN STATES TO DETERMINE THE FACTORS CONTRIBUTING
TO THE ELEVATED BREAST CANCER MORTALITY RATES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsections (c) and (d), the Secretary, acting
 through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control, shall conduct a
 study for the purpose of determining the factors contributing to the fact
 that breast cancer mortality rates in the States specified in subsection
 (b) are elevated compared to rates in other States.
 `(b) RELEVANT STATES- The States referred to in subsection (a) are
 Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey,
 New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, and the District of Columbia.
 `(c) COOPERATION OF STATE- The Secretary may conduct the study required in
 subsection (a) in a State only if the State agrees to cooperate with the
 Secretary in the conduct of the study, including providing information from
 any registry operated by the State pursuant to section 399H(a).
 `(d) PLANNING, COMMENCEMENT, AND DURATION- The Secretary shall, during each
 of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994, develop a plan for conducting the study
 required in subsection (a). The study shall be initiated by the Secretary
 not later than fiscal year 1994, and the collection of data under the study
 may continue through fiscal year 1998.
 `(e) REPORT- Not later than September 30, 1999, the Secretary shall complete
 the study required in subsection (a) and submit to the Committee on Energy
 and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate, a report describing the findings and
 recommendations made as a result of the study.
`SEC. 399L. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `(a) REGISTRIES- For the purpose of carrying out this part, there are
 authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993
 through 1996. Out of any amounts appropriated for any such fiscal year, the
 Secretary may obligate not more than 25 percent for carrying out section 399I,
 and not more than 10 percent may be expended for assessing the accuracy,
 completeness and quality of data collected, and not more than 10 percent
 of which is to be expended under subsection 399J.
 `(b) BREAST CANCER STUDY- Of the amounts appropriated under subsection (a) for
 any fiscal year in which the study required in section 399K is being carried
 out, the Secretary shall expend not less than $1,000,000 for the study.'.
SEC. 2103. TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through
 the Director of the Centers for Disease Control--
 (1) shall conduct a survey to determine which Federal and other entities
 collect data on traumatic brain injuries and the nature of the data collection
 systems of such entities; and
 (2) may cooperate and enter into agreements with other Federal agencies and
 provide assistance to other entities with responsibility for data collection
 to establish traumatic brain injury as a specific reportable condition or
 disability in disease and injury reporting systems.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purposes of carrying out
 subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
 years 1994 through 1996.
TITLE XXII--STUDIES
SEC. 2201. ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME.
 (a) CERTAIN DRUG-RELEASE MECHANISMS-
 (1) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, subject to paragraph
 (2), enter into a contract with a public or nonprofit private entity to
 conduct a study for the purpose of determining, with respect to acquired
 immune deficiency syndrome, the impact of parallel-track drug-release
 mechanisms on public and private clinical research, and on the activities
 of the Commissioner of Food and Drugs regarding the approval of drugs.
 (2) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall request the Institute
 of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences to enter into the contract
 under paragraph (1) to conduct the study described in such paragraph. If
 such Institute declines to conduct the study, the Secretary shall carry
 out paragraph (1) through another public or nonprofit private entity.
 (b) THIRD-PARTY PAYMENTS REGARDING CERTAIN CLINICAL TRIALS- The Secretary
 of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the National
 Institutes of Health, shall conduct a study for the purpose of--
 (1) determining the policies of third-party payors regarding the payment of
 the costs of appropriate health services that are provided incident to the
 participation of individuals as subjects in clinical trials conducted in the
 development of drugs with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome; and
 (2) developing recommendations regarding such policies.
 (c) ADVISORY COMMITTEES- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting
 through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall conduct
 a study for the purpose of determining--
 (1) whether the activities of the various advisory committees established
 in the National Institutes of Health regarding acquired immune deficiency
 syndrome are being coordinated sufficiently; and
 (2) whether the functions of any of such advisory committees should be
 modified in order to achieve greater efficiency.
 (d) Vaccines for Human Immunodeficiency Virus-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through
 the National Institutes of Health, shall develop a plan for the appropriate
 inclusion of HIV-infected women, including pregnant women, HIV-infected
 infants, and HIV-infected children in studies conducted by or through
 the National Institutes of Health concerning the safety and efficacy of
 HIV vaccines for the treatment and prevention of HIV infection. Such plan
 shall ensure the full participation of other Federal agencies currently
 conducting HIV vaccine studies and require that such studies conform fully
 to the requirements of part 46 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
 (2) REPORT- Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this
 Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall prepare and submit
 to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives,
 and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report
 concerning the plan developed under paragraph (1).
 (3) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall implement
 the plan developed under paragraph (1), including measures for the full
 participation of other Federal agencies currently conducting HIV vaccine
 studies.
 (4) For the purpose of carrying out this subsection, there are authorized to
 be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal year 1992, $2,500,000 for fiscal year
 1993, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and such sums as may be necessary
 for fiscal year 1995.
SEC. 2202. ANNUAL REPORT CONCERNING LEADING CAUSES OF DEATH.
 (a) REPORT- The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, not later
 than September 1, 1992, and not later than March 31 of each year thereafter,
 prepare a report that lists--
 (1) the 20 illnesses that, in terms of mortality, number of years of
 expected life lost, and of number of preventable years of life lost,  are
 the leading causes of death in the United States and the number of deaths
 from each such cause, the age-specific and age-adjusted death rates for
 each such cause, the death rate per 100,000 population for each such cause,
 the percentage of change in cause specific death rates for each age group,
 and the percentage of total deaths for each such cause;
 (2) the amount expended by the Department of Health and Human Services for
 research, prevention, and education with respect to each of the 20 illnesses
 described in paragraph (1) for the most recent year for which the actual
 expenditures are known;
 (3) an estimate by the Secretary of the amount to be expended on research,
 prevention, and education with respect to each of the 20 illnesses described
 in paragraph (1) for the year for which the report is prepared; and
 (4) with respect to the years specified in paragraphs (2) and (3),
 the percentage of the total of the annual expenditures for research,
 prevention, and education on the 20 illnesses described in paragraph (1)
 that are attributable to each illness.
 (b) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS- The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
 submit the report required under subsection (a), together with relevant budget
 information, to the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on
 Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
SEC. 2203. MALNUTRITION IN THE ELDERLY.
 (a) STUDY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to
 in this section as the `Secretary'), acting through the National Institute
 on Aging, coordinating with the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research
 and, to the degree possible, in consultation with the head of the National
 Nutrition Monitoring System established under section 1428 of the Food and
 Agriculture Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3178), shall conduct a 3-year nutrition
 screening and intervention activities study of the elderly.
 (2) EFFICACY AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS OF NUTRITION SCREENING AND INTERVENTION
 ACTIVITIES- In conducting the study, the Secretary shall determine the
 efficacy and cost-effectiveness of nutrition screening and intervention
 activities conducted in the elderly health and long-term care continuum, and
 of a program that would institutionalize nutrition screening and intervention
 activities. In evaluating such a program, the Secretary shall determine--
 (A) if health or quality of life is measurably improved for elderly
 individuals  who receive routine nutritional screening and treatment;
 (B) if federally subsidized home or institutional care is reduced because
 of increased independence of elderly individuals resulting from improved
 nutritional status;
 (C) if a multidisciplinary approach to nutritional care is effective in
 addressing the nutritional needs of elderly individuals; and
 (D) if reimbursement for nutrition screening and intervention activities is a
 cost-effective approach to improving the health status of elderly individuals.
 (3) POPULATIONS- The populations of elderly individuals in which the study
 will be conducted shall include populations of elderly individuals who are--
 (A) living independently, including--
 (i) individuals who receive home and community-based services or family
 support;
 (ii) individuals who do not receive additional services and support;
 (iii) individuals with low incomes; and
 (iv) individuals who are minorities;
 (B) hospitalized, including individuals admitted from home and from
 institutions; and
 (C) institutionalized in residential facilities such as nursing homes and
 adult homes.
 (b) MALNUTRITION STUDY- The Secretary, acting through the National Institute
 on Aging, shall conduct a 3-year study to determine the extent of malnutrition
 in elderly individuals in hospitals and long-term care facilities and in
 elderly individuals who are living independently.
 (c) REPORT- The Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
 of the House of Representatives containing the findings resulting from the
 studies described in subsections (a) and (b), including a determination
 regarding whether a program that would institutionalize nutrition screening
 and intervention activities should be adopted, and the rationale for the
 determination.
 (d) ADVISORY PANEL-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National
 Institute on Aging, shall establish an advisory panel that shall oversee
 the design, implementation, and evaluation of the studies described in
 subsections (a) and (b).
 (2) COMPOSITION- The advisory panel shall include representatives appointed
 for the life of the panel by the Secretary from the Health Care Financing
 Administration, the Social Security Administration, the National Center
 for Health Statistics, the Administration on Aging, the National Council
 on the Aging, the American Dietetic Association, the American Academy of
 Family Physicians, and such other agencies or organizations as the Secretary
 determines to be appropriate.
 (3) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES-
 (A) COMPENSATION- Each member of the advisory panel who is not an employee of
 the Federal Government shall receive compensation at the daily equivalent of
 the rate specified for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316
 of title 5, United States Code, for each day the member is engaged in the
 performance of duties for the advisory panel, including attendance at meetings
 and conferences of the panel, and travel to conduct the duties of the panel.
 (B) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member of the advisory panel shall receive travel
 expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized
 for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5,
 United States Code, for each day the member is engaged in the performance
 of duties away from the home or regular place of business of the member.
 (4)  DETAIL OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES- On the request of the advisory panel, the
 head of any Federal agency shall detail, without reimbursement, any of the
 personnel of the agency to the advisory panel to assist the advisory panel
 in carrying out its duties. Any detail shall not interrupt or otherwise
 affect the civil service status or privileges of the Federal employee.
 (5)  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- On the request of the advisory panel, the head of
 a Federal agency shall provide such technical assistance to the advisory panel
 as the advisory panel determines to be necessary to carry out its duties.
 (6) TERMINATION- Notwithstanding section 15 of the Federal Advisory Committee
 Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the advisory panel shall terminate 3 years after the
 date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 2204. BEHAVIORAL FACTORS STUDY.
 The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall submit to the
 Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and
 to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report on
 the feasibility of developing a plan for the conduct of research at such
 Institutes on the prevention of traumatic injuries.
SEC. 2205. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE CONSUMPTION OF LEGAL AND ILLEGAL DRUGS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through
 the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall review and consider all existing
 relevant data and research concerning whether there is a relationship between
 an individual's receptivity to use or consume legal drugs and the consumption
 or abuse by the individual of illegal drugs. On the basis of such review,
 the Secretary shall determine whether additional research is necessary. If
 the Secretary determines additional research is required, the Secretary shall
 conduct a study of those subjects where the Secretary's review indicates
 additional research is needed, including, if necessary, a review of--
 (1) the effect of advertising and marketing campaigns that promote the use
 of legal drugs on the public;
 (2) the correlation of legal drug abuse with illegal drug abuse; and
 (3) other matters that the Secretary determines appropriate.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this
 Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Energy and
 Commerce of the House of Representatives and Committee on Labor and Human
 Resources of the Senate, a report containing the results of the review
 conducted under subsection (b). If the Secretary determines additional
 research is required, no later than 2 years after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on
 Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate, a report containing the results of the
 additional research conducted under subsection (b).
 (c) LIMITATION- For purposes of this section, the terms `legal drugs' and
 `illegal drugs' do not include beverage alcohol or tobacco products.
SEC. 2206. RESEARCH ACTIVITIES ON CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME.
 The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, not later than April 1,
 1993, and annually thereafter for the next 3 years, prepare and submit to
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and
 the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report that
 summarizes the research activities conducted or supported by the National
 Institutes of Health concerning chronic fatigue syndrome. Such report
 should include information concerning grants made, cooperative agreements
 or contracts entered into, intramural activities, research priorities and
 needs, and a plan to address such priorities and needs.
SEC. 2207. REPORT ON MEDICAL USES OF BIOLOGICAL AGENTS IN DEVELOPMENT OF
DEFENSES AGAINST BIOLOGICAL WARFARE.
 The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with other
 appropriate executive agencies, shall report to the House Energy and
 Commerce Committee and the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee on the
 appropriateness and impact of the National Institutes of Health assuming
 responsibility for the conduct of all Federal research, development,
 testing, and evaluation functions relating to medical countermeasures
 against biowarfare threat agents. In preparing the report, the Secretary shall
 identify the extent to which such activities are carried out by agencies other
 than the National Institutes of Health, and assess the impact (positive and
 negative) of the National Institutes of Health assuming responsibility for
 such activities, including the impact under the Budget Enforcement Act and
 the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 on existing National Institutes
 of Health research programs as well as other programs within the category
 of domestic discretionary spending. The Secretary shall submit the report
 not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 2208. EVALUATION OF EMPLOYEE-TRANSPORTED CONTAMINANT RELEASES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 18 months after the date on which amounts
 are first available under subsection (f), the Director of the National
 Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (hereafter in this section
 referred to as the `Director'), in cooperation with the Secretary of Labor,
 the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Administrator
 of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, and the heads of
 other Federal Government agencies (such as the National Institutes of Health)
 as determined to be appropriate by the Director, shall conduct a study to
 evaluate the potential for, the prevalence of, and the issues related to
 the contamination of workers' homes with hazardous chemicals and substances,
 including infectious agents, transported from the workplaces of such workers.
 (b) MATTERS TO BE EVALUATED- In conducting the study and evaluation under
 subsection (a), the Director shall--
 (1) conduct a review of past incidents of home contamination through the
 utilization of literature and of records concerning past investigations
 and enforcement actions undertaken by--
 (A) the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health;
 (B) the Secretary of Labor to enforce the Occupational Safety and Health
 Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.);
 (C) States to enforce occupational safety and health standards in accordance
 with section 18 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 667); and
 (D) other government agencies (including the Department of Energy and
 the Environmental Protection Agency), as the Director may determine to
 be appropriate;
 (2) evaluate current statutory, regulatory, and voluntary industrial hygiene
 or other measures used by small, medium and large employers to prevent or
 remediate home contamination;
 (3) compile a summary of the existing research and case histories conducted
 on incidents of employee transported contaminant releases, including--
 (A) the effectiveness of workplace housekeeping practices and personal
 protective equipment in preventing such incidents;
 (B) the health effects, if any, of the resulting exposure on workers and
 their families;
 (C) the effectiveness of normal house cleaning and laundry procedures for
 removing hazardous materials and agents from workers' homes and personal
 clothing;
 (D) indoor air quality, as the research concerning such pertains to the
 fate of chemicals transported from a workplace into the home environment; and
 (E) methods for differentiating exposure health effects and relative risks
 associated with specific agents from other sources of exposure inside and
 outside the home;
 (4) identify the role of Federal and State agencies in responding to
 incidents of home contamination;
 (5) prepare and submit to the Task Force established under subsection (c),
 the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives,
 and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report
 concerning the results of the matters studied or evaluated under paragraphs
 (1) through (4); and
 (6) study home contamination incidents and issues and worker and family
 protection policies and practices related to the special circumstances of
 firefighters and prepare and submit to the committees specified in paragraph
 (5) a report concerning the findings with respect to such study.
 (c) DEVELOPMENT OF INVESTIGATIVE STRATEGY-
 (1) TASK FORCE- Not later than 12 months after the date on which amounts
 are first available under subsection (f), the Director shall establish a
 working group, to be known as the Workers' Family Protection Task Force. The
 Task Force shall--
 (A) be composed of not more than 15 individuals to be appointed by the
 Director from among individuals who are representative of workers, industry,
 scientists, industrial hygienists, the National Research Council, and
 government agencies, except that not more than one such individual shall
 be from each appropriate government agency and the number of individuals
 appointed to represent industry and workers shall be equal in number;
 (B) review the report submitted under subsection (b)(5);
 (C) determine, with respect to such report, the additional data needs,
 if any, and the need for additional evaluation of the scientific issues
 related to and the feasibility of developing such additional data; and
 (D) if additional data are determined by the Task Force to be needed, develop
 a recommended investigative strategy for use in obtaining such information.
 (2) INVESTIGATIVE STRATEGY-
 (A) CONTENT- The investigative strategy developed under paragraph (1)(D)
 shall identify gaps in data that can and cannot be filled, assumptions
 and uncertainties associated with various components of such strategy, a
 timetable for the implementation of such strategy, and methodologies used
 to gather any required data.
 (B) PEER REVIEW- The Director shall publish the proposed investigative
 strategy under paragraph (1)(D) for public comment and utilize other methods,
 including technical conferences or seminars for the purpose of obtaining
 comments concerning the proposed strategy.
 (C) FINAL STRATEGY- After peer review and public comment is conducted under
 subparagraph (B), the Director, in consultation with the heads of other
 government agencies, shall propose a final strategy for investigating issues
 related to home contamination that shall be implemented by the National
 Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and other Federal agencies
 for the period of time necessary to enable such agencies to obtain the
 information identified under paragraph (1)(C).
 (D) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed as precluding
 any government agency from investigating issues related to home contamination
 using existing procedures until such time as a final strategy is developed
 or from taking actions in addition to those proposed in the strategy after
 its completion.
 (d) IMPLEMENTATION OF INVESTIGATIVE STRATEGY- Upon completion of the
 investigative strategy under subsection (c)(2)(C), each Federal agency or
 department shall fulfill the role assigned to it by the strategy.
 (e) Regulations-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 4 years after the date on which amounts
 are first available under subsection (f), and periodically thereafter, the
 Secretary of Labor, based on the information developed under this section
 and on other information available to the Secretary, shall--
 (A) determine if additional education about, emphasis on, or enforcement
 of existing regulations or standards is needed and will be sufficient, or
 if additional regulations or standards are needed to protect workers and
 their families from employee transported releases of hazardous materials; and
 (B) prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
 of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of
 the Senate, a report concerning the results of such determination.
 (2) ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS OR STANDARDS- If the Secretary of Labor determines
 that additional regulations or standards are needed under paragraph (1),
 the Secretary shall promulgate such regulations or standards as determined
 to be appropriate not later than 3 years after such determination.
 (f) FUNDING- If the amounts appropriated for a fiscal year for carrying
 out the activities of the National Institute of Occupational Safety and
 Health equal or exceed 105 percent of the amount appropriated for such
 activities for fiscal year 1992 (as such amount relating to fiscal year 1992
 is adjusted to offset the effects of inflation occurring since fiscal year
 1992), the Director of such Institute may expend such amounts for carrying
 out this section.
SEC. 2209. PERSONNEL STUDY OF RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND TURNOVER.
 (a) STUDY OF PERSONNEL SYSTEM- Not later than 1 year after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting
 through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall conduct a
 study to review the retention, recruitment, vacancy and turnover rates of
 support staff, including firefighters, law enforcement, procurement officers,
 technicians, nurses and clerical employees, to ensure that the National
 Institutes of Health is adequately supporting the conduct of efficient,
 effective and high quality research for the American public. The Director
 of NIH shall work in conjunction with appropriate employee organizations
 and representatives in developing such a study.
 (b) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
 prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
 of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of
 the Senate, a report containing the study conducted under subsection (a)
 together with the recommendations of the Secretary concerning the enactment
 of legislation to implement the results of such study.
SEC. 2210. PROCUREMENT.
 The Director of the National Institutes of Health and the Administrator
 of the General Services Administration shall jointly conduct a study to
 develop a streamlined procurement system for the National Institutes of
 Health that complies with the requirements of Federal law.
TITLE XXIII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 2301. DESIGNATION OF SENIOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH SERVICE IN HONOR OF
SILVIO CONTE, AND LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 228(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 237(a)), as added by section 304 of Public Law 101-509, is amended
 to read as follows: `(a)(1) There shall be in the Public Health Service a
 Silvio Conte Senior Biomedical Research Service, not to exceed 750 members.
 `(2) The authority established in paragraph (1) regarding the number
 of members in the Silvio Conte Senior Biomedical Research Service is in
 addition to any authority established regarding the number of members in
 the commissioned Regular Corps, in the Reserve Corps, and in the Senior
 Executive Service. Such paragraph may not be construed to require that
 the number of members in the commissioned Regular Corps, in the Reserve
 Corps, or in the Senior Executive Service be reduced to offset the number
 of members serving in the Silvio Conte Senior Biomedical Research Service
 (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Service').'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 228 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 237), as added by section 304 of Public Law 101-509, is amended in
 the heading for the section by amending the heading to read as follows:
`SILVIO CONTE SENIOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH SERVICE'.
SEC. 2302. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
 (a) TITLE IV- Title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281 et
 seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 406--
 (A) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking `Veterans' Administration' each
 place such term appears and inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs'; and
 (B) in subsection (h)(2)(A)(v), by striking `Veterans' Administration'
 and inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (2) in section 408, in subsection (b) (as redesignated by section 501(c)(1)(C)
 of this Act), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and inserting `Department
 of Veterans Affairs';
 (3) in section 421(b)(1), by inserting a comma after `may';
 (4) in section 428(b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `the the' and inserting `the';
 (5) in section 430(b)(2)(A)(i), by striking `Veterans' Administration'
 and inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (6) in section 439(b), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and inserting
 `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (7) in section 442(b)(2)(A), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and
 inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (8) in section 464D(b)(2)(A), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and
 inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (9) in section 464E--
 (A) in subsection (d), in the first sentence, by inserting `Coordinating'
 before `Committee'; and
 (B) in subsection (e), by inserting `Coordinating' before `Committee'
 the first place such term appears;
 (10) in section 466(a)(1)(B), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and
 inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (11) in section 480(b)(2)(A), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and
 inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (12) in section 485(b)(2)(A), by striking `Veterans' Administration' and
 inserting `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (13) in section 487(d)(3), by striking `section 304(a)(3)' and inserting
 `section 304(a)'; and
 (14) in section 496(a), by striking `Such appropriations,' and inserting
 the following: `Appropriations to carry out the purposes of this title,'.
 (b) TITLE XXIII- Part A of title XXIII of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 300cc et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 2304--
 (A) in the heading for the section, by striking `clinical research review
 committee' and inserting `research advisory committee'; and
 (B) in subsection (a), by striking `AIDS Clinical Research Review Committee'
 and inserting `AIDS Research Advisory Committee';
 (2) in section 2312(a)(2)(A), by striking `AIDS Clinical Research Review
 Committee' and inserting `AIDS Research Advisory Committee';
 (3) in section 2314(a)(1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by
 striking `Clinical Research Review Committee' and inserting `AIDS Research
 Advisory Committee';
 (4) in section 2317(d)(1), by striking `Clinical Research Review Committee'
 and inserting `AIDS Research Advisory Committee established under section
 2304'; and
 (5) in section 2318(b)(3), by striking `Clinical Research Review Committee'
 and inserting `AIDS Research Advisory Committee'.
SEC. 2303. PROHIBITION AGAINST SHARP ADULT SEX SURVEY AND THE AMERICAN
TEENAGE SEX SURVEY.
 The Secretary of Health and Human Services may not during fiscal year
 1992 or any subsequent fiscal year conduct or support the SHARP survey of
 adult sexual behavior or the American Teenage Study of adolescent sexual
 behavior. This section becomes effective April 15, 1992.
SEC. 2304. BIENNIAL REPORT ON CARCINOGENS.
 Section 301(b)(4) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241(b)(4))
 is amended by striking `an annual' and inserting in lieu thereof `a biennial'.
SEC. 2305. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON SLEEP DISORDERS RESEARCH.
 The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, not later than 6 months
 after the submission of the final report of the National Commission on
 Sleep Disorders Research, prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy
 and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor
 and Human Resources of the Senate, a report that analyzes the findings and
 recommendations of the Commission and presents a plan for the conduct and
 support of sleep disorders research at the National Institutes of Health.
TITLE XXIV--EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 2401. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 Subject to section 155, this Act and the amendments made by this Act shall
 take effect October 1, 1992, or upon the date of the enactment of this Act,
 whichever occurs later.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.