--H.R.20--
H.R.20
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend title 5, United States Code, to restore to Federal civilian employees
their right to participate voluntarily, as private citizens, in the political
processes of the Nation, to protect such employees from improper political
solicitations, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
 `Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1990'.
SEC. 2. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
 (a) Subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code, is amended
 to read as follows:
`SUBCHAPTER III--POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
`Sec. 7321. Political participation
 `It is the policy of the Congress that employees should be encouraged to
 exercise fully, freely, and without fear of penalty or reprisal, and to
 the extent not expressly prohibited by law, their right to participate or
 to refrain from participating in the political processes of the Nation.
`Sec. 7322. Definitions
 `For the purpose of this subchapter--
 `(1) `employee' means any individual, other than the President and the Vice
 President, employed or holding office in--
 `(A) an Executive agency other than the General Accounting Office; or
 `(B) a position within the competitive service which is not in an Executive
 agency;
but does not include a member of the uniformed services;
 `(2) `partisan political office' means any office for which any candidate
 is nominated or elected as representing a party any of whose candidates
 for Presidential elector received votes in the last preceding election at
 which Presidential electors were selected, but shall exclude any office or
 position within a political party or affiliated organization; and
 `(3) `political contribution'--
 `(A) means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or
 anything of value, made for any political purpose;
 `(B) includes any contract, promise, or agreement, express or implied, whether
 or not legally enforceable, to make a contribution for any political purpose;
 `(C) includes any payment by any person, other than a candidate or a political
 party or affiliated organization, of compensation for the personal services
 of another person which are rendered to any candidate or political party
 or affiliated organization without charge for any political purpose; and
 `(D) includes the provision of personal services for any political purpose.
`Sec. 7323. Political activity authorized; prohibitions
 `(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b), an employee may take an
 active part in political management or in political campaigns, except an
 employee may not--
 `(1) use his official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering
 with or affecting the result of an election;
 `(2) knowingly solicit, accept, or receive a political contribution from
 any person, unless such person is--
 `(A) a member of the same Federal labor organization as defined under
 section 7103(4) of this title or a Federal employee organization which as
 of the date of enactment of the Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1990 had
 a multicandidate political committee (as defined under section 315(a)(4)
 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(4)));
 `(B) not a subordinate employee; and
 `(C) the solicitation is for a contribution to the multicandidate
 political committee (as defined under section 315(a)(4) of the Federal
 Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(4))) of such Federal labor
 organization as defined under section 7103(4) of this title or a Federal
 employee organization which as of the date of the enactment of the Hatch
 Act Reform Amendments of 1990 had a multicandidate political committee
 (as defined under section 315(a)(4) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
 of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(4))); or
 `(3) run for the nomination or as a candidate for election to a partisan
 political office; or
 `(4) knowingly solicit or discourage the participation in any political
 activity of any person who--
 `(A) has an application for any compensation, grant, contract, ruling,
 license, permit, or certificate pending before the employing office of such
 employee; or
 `(B) is the subject of or a participant in an ongoing audit, investigation, or
 enforcement action being carried out by the employing office of such employee.
 `(b)(1) An employee of the Federal Election Commission (except one appointed
 by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate), may
 not request or receive from, or give to, an employee, a Member of Congress,
 or an officer of a uniformed service a political contribution.
 `(2) No employee of the Federal Election Commission (except one appointed
 by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate), may
 take an active part in political management or political campaigns.
 `(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term `active part in political
 management or in a political campaign' means those acts of political
 management or political campaigning which were prohibited for employees
 of the competitive service before July 19, 1940, by determinations of the
 Civil Service Commission under the rules prescribed by the President.
`Sec. 7324. Political activities on duty; prohibition
 `(a) An employee may not engage in political activity--
 `(1) while the employee is on duty;
 `(2) in any room or building occupied in the discharge of official duties
 by an individual employed or holding office in the Government of the United
 States or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
 `(3) while wearing a uniform or official insignia identifying the office
 or position of the employee; or
 `(4) using any vehicle owned or leased by the Government of the United
 States or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
 `(b)(1) An employee described in paragraph (2) of this subsection may engage
 in political activity otherwise prohibited by subsection (a) if the costs
 associated with that political activity are not paid for by money derived
 from the Treasury of the United States.
 `(2) Paragraph (1) applies to an employee--
 `(A) the duties and responsibilities of whose position continue outside
 normal duty hours and while away from the normal duty post; and
 `(B) who is--
 `(i) an employee paid from an appropriation for the Executive Office of
 the President; or
 `(ii) an employee appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
 consent of the Senate, whose position is located within the United States,
 who determines policies to be pursued by the United States in relations
 with foreign powers or in the nationwide administration of Federal laws.
`Sec. 7325. Political activity permitted; employees residing in certain
municipalities
 `The Office of Personnel Management may prescribe regulations permitting
 employees, without regard to the prohibitions in paragraphs (2) and (3) of
 section 7323 of this title, to take an active part in political management
 and political campaigns involving the municipality or other political
 subdivision in which they reside, to the extent the Office considers it to
 be in their domestic interest, when--
 `(1) the municipality or political subdivision is in Maryland or Virginia and
 in the immediate vicinity of the District of Columbia, or is a municipality
 in which the majority of voters are employed by the Government of the United
 States; and
 `(2) the Office determines that because of special or unusual circumstances
 which exist in the municipality or political subdivision it is in the
 domestic interest of the employees and individuals to permit that political
 participation.
`Sec. 7326. Penalties
 `Any employee who has been determined by the Merit Systems Protection Board
 to have violated on two occasions any provision of section 7323 or 7324
 of this title, shall upon such second determination by the Merit System
 Protection Board be removed from such employee's position, in which event
 that employee may not thereafter hold any position (other than an elected
 position) as an employee (as defined in section 7322(1) of this title). Such
 removal shall not be effective until all available appeals are final.'.
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 3302(2) of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended by striking out `7203, 7321, and 7322'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `and 7203'.
 (2) The table of sections for subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `SUBCHAPTER III--POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
 `7321. Political participation.
 `7322. Definitions.
 `7323. Political activity authorized; prohibitions.
 `7324. Political activities on duty; prohibition.
 `7325. Political activity permitted; employees residing in certain
 municipalities.
 `7326. Penalties.'.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 12 OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.
 Section 1216(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) If the Special Counsel receives an allegation concerning any matter
 under paragraph (1), (3), (4), or (5) of subsection (a), the Special
 Counsel may investigate and seek corrective action under section 1214 and
 disciplinary action under section 1215 in the same way as if a prohibited
 personnel practice were involved.'.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 18.
 (a) Section 602 of title 18, United States Code, relating to solicitation
 of political contributions, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(a)' before `It';
 (2) in paragraph (4) by striking out all that follows `Treasury of the
 United States' and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and `to knowingly
 solicit any contribution within the meaning of section 301(8) of the Federal
 Election Campaign Act of 1971 from any other such officer, employee, or
 person. Any person who violates this section shall be fined under this
 title or imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any activity of an
 employee (as defined in section 7322(1) of title 5) or any individual employed
 in or under the United States Postal Service or the Postal Rate Commission,
 unless that activity is prohibited by section 7323 or 7324 of such title.'.
 (b) Section 603 of title 18, United States Code, relating to making political
 contributions, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
 subsection:
 `(c) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any activity of an
 employee (as defined in section 7322(1) of title 5) or any individual employed
 in or under the United States Postal Service or the Postal Rate Commission,
 unless that activity is prohibited by section 7323 or 7324 of such title.'.
 (c) Chapter 29 of title 18, United States Code (18 U.S.C. 592 et seq.),
 relating to elections and political activities is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 610. COERCION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
 `It shall be unlawful for any person to intimidate, threaten, command, or
 coerce, or attempt to intimidate, threaten, command, or coerce, any employee
 of the Federal Government as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7322(1), as amended,
 to engage in, or not to engage in, any political activity, including, but
 not limited to, voting or refusing to vote for any candidate or measure
 in any election, making or refusing to make any political contribution,
 or working or refusing to work on behalf of any candidate. Any person who
 violates this section shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned
 not more than three years, or both.'.
SEC. 5. AMENDMENTS TO THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 1965.
 Section 6 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 1973d) is amended by
 striking out `the provisions of section 9 of the Act of August 2, 1939,
 as amended (5 U.S.C. 118i), prohibiting partisan political activity' and
 by inserting in lieu thereof `the provisions of subchapter III of chapter
 73 of title 5, United States Code, relating to political activities'.
SEC. 6. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO APPLICATION OF CHAPTER 15 OF TITLE 5, UNITED
STATES CODE.
 (a) Section 1501(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 `, the District of Columbia,' after `State'.
 (b) Section 675(e) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42
 U.S.C. 9904(e)) is repealed.
SEC. 7. APPLICABILITY TO POSTAL EMPLOYEES.
 The amendments made by this Act, and any regulations thereunder, shall
 apply with respect to employees of the United States Postal Service and the
 Postal Rate Commission, pursuant to sections 410(b) and 3604(e) of title 39,
 United States Code.
SEC. 8. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 120 days after the
 date of the enactment of this Act, except that the authority to prescribe
 regulations granted under section 7325 of title 5, United States Code
 (as added by section 2 of this Act), shall take effect on the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
 (b) Any repeal or amendment made by this Act of any provision of law shall
 not release or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred
 under that provision, and that provision shall be treated as remaining in
 force for the purpose of sustaining any proper proceeding or action for
 the enforcement of that penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
 (c) No provision of this Act shall affect any proceedings with respect
 to which the charges were filed on or before the effective date of the
 amendments made by this Act. Orders shall be issued in such proceedings
 and appeals shall be taken therefrom as if this Act had not been enacted.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.