--H.R.2212--
H.R.2212
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
Regarding the extension of most-favored-nation treatment to the products of the
People's Republic of China, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `United States-China Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND POLICY.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The Chinese people have provided a dramatic demonstration of their
 desire for democratic freedoms. Thousands of courageous Chinese students
 and workers, men and women, demonstrated on June 4, 1989, that they were
 willing to die, or face imprisonment or exile, in pursuit of democratic
 selfdetermination and human rights.
 (2) The Government of the People's Republic of China, which is a member
 of the United Nations and obligated to uphold the Charter of the United
 Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, continues to engage
 in flagrant violations of internationally recognized human rights, including--
 (A) torture and cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment;
 (B) prolonged detention without charges and trial and sentencing of persons
 solely for the nonviolent expression of their political views;
 (C) arbitrary arrest and the unacknowledged detention of persons; and
 (D) use of forced labor of prisoners to produce cheap products for export
 to countries, including the United States, in violation of international
 labor treaties and United States law.
 (3) The Government of the People's Republic of China has denied Chinese
 citizens who support the pro-democracy movement and others the right of free,
 unimpeded emigration.
 (4) The Government of the People's Republic of China has restricted the number
 of students permitted to study abroad, required some college students to
 attend military indoctrination courses, and required university graduates
 to work 5 years after graduation and to pay large sums of money before
 being eligible to apply for study outside China.
 (5) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to violate
 the internationally recognized human rights of the people of Tibet and uses
 the People's Liberation Army and police forces to intimidate and repress
 Tibetan and Chinese citizens peacefully demonstrating for democratic change
 and religious freedom.
 (6) The Government of the People's Republic of China is engaging in
 unfair trade practices against the United States by failing to protect
 intellectual property rights, raising tariffs, employing taxes as a surcharge
 on tariffs, using discriminatory customs rates, imposing import quotas and
 other quantitative restrictions, barring the importation of some items,
 using licensing and testing requirements to limit imports, and falsifying
 country of origin documentation to transship textiles to the United States
 through third countries.
 (7) The Government of the People's Republic of China has not demonstrated
 its willingness and intention to participate as a full and responsible party
 in good faith efforts to control the proliferation of dangerous military
 technology and weapons, including biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons
 technologies.
 (8) The Government of the People's Republic of China has interfered with
 the movement toward self-rule by the people of Hong Kong in their political,
 cultural, and economic activities.
 (9) The President of the United States has suspended all
 government-to-government sales and commercial exports of defense articles
 and services to China and issued an Executive order to treat sympathetically
 requests by Chinese students in the United States to extend their stay.
 (10) United States policy toward China has failed to prevent or discourage
 the People's Republic of China from--
 (A) committing violations of internationally recognized human rights,
 including the rights of the people of Tibet;
 (B) taking action that results in the proliferation of dangerous military
 technology and weapons; and
 (C) engaging in unfair trade practices against the United States.
 (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) with respect to the actions of the People's Republic of China in the
 areas of human rights, weapons proliferation, and unfair trade practices,
 the President should take such actions as necessary to achieve the purposes
 of this Act, including, but not limited to--
 (A) instructing the United States delegation to the United Nations Commission
 on Human Rights to actively seek the appointment of a special rapporteur
 to investigate violations of internationally recognized human rights in
 China and to seek allied and Soviet support for such an investigation;
 (B) directing the United States Trade Representative to take appropriate
 action pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 with respect to the
 trade practices of the People's Republic of China which are unreasonable,
 unjustifiable, or discriminatory and which burden or restrict United States
 commerce;
 (C) interacting more forcefully with our allies, especially Japan and
 European countries, to accomplish the restriction of transfers of technology
 to China; and
 (D) encouraging members of the Missile Technology Control Regime, and other
 countries, as appropriate, to set up a working group to develop a common
 policy concerning missile transfers to other countries by the People's
 Republic of China;
 (2) the sanctions being applied against the People's Republic of China on the
 date of enactment of this Act should be continued and strictly enforced; and
 (3) the President should submit the report required by the Joint Resolution
 relating to the approval and implementation of the proposed agreement for
 nuclear cooperation between the United States and the People's Republic of
 China (Public Law 99-183; 99 Stat. 1174).
SEC. 3. ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVES WHICH THE GOVERNMENT OF CHINA MUST MEET IN
ORDER TO RECEIVE NONDISCRIMINATORY TREATMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The President may not recommend the continuation of a
 waiver in 1992 for a 12-month period under section 402(d) of the Trade Act
 of 1974 for the People's Republic of China unless the President reports in
 the document required to be submitted by such section that the government
 of that country--
 (1) has, in regard to the events that led up to, and occurred during and
 after, the violent repression of dissent in Tiananmen Square on June 3, 1989--
 (A) provided an accounting of citizens who were detained, accused, or
 sentenced as a result of the nonviolent expression of their political
 beliefs during those events; and
 (B) released citizens who were imprisoned after such detention, accusation,
 or sentencing; and
 (2) has made overall significant progress in achieving the objectives
 outlined in each of the categories of--
 (A) human rights, as described in subsection (b);
 (B) trade, as described in subsection (c); and
 (C) weapons proliferation, as described in subsection (d).
 (b) HUMAN RIGHTS- The human rights objectives described in this subsection
 are--
 (1) taking appropriate action to prevent gross violations of internationally
 recognized human rights in the People's Republic of China, including Tibet;
 (2) preventing exports of products made by prisoners and detainees
 assigned to labor camps, prisons, detention centers, and other facilities
 holding detainees, and allowing United States officials and international
 humanitarian and intergovernmental organizations to inspect the places of
 detention suspected of producing export goods to ensure that appropriate
 steps have been taken and are in effect;
 (3) terminating religious persecution in the People's Republic of China,
 including Tibet, and releasing leaders and members of all religious groups
 detained, incarcerated, or under house arrest as a result of the expression
 of their religious beliefs;
 (4) removing restrictions in the People's Republic of China, including Tibet,
 on freedom of the press and on broadcasts by the Voice of America;
 (5) terminating the acts of intimidation and harassment of Chinese citizens in
 the United States, including the return and renewal of passports confiscated
 by authorities as retribution for prodemocracy activities;
 (6) ensuring access of international human rights monitoring or humanitarian
 groups to prisoners, trials, and places of detention;
 (7) ensuring freedom from torture and from inhumane prison conditions;
 (8) terminating prohibitions on peaceful assembly and demonstration imposed
 after June 3, 1989;
 (9) fulfilling its commitment to engage in high-level discussions on human
 rights issues; and
 (10) adhering to the Joint Declaration on Hong Kong that was entered into
 between the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China.
 (c) TRADE- The trade objectives described in this subsection are--
 (1) providing adequate protection of United States patents, copyrights,
 and other intellectual property rights;
 (2) providing American exporters fair access to Chinese markets, including
 lowering tariffs, removing nontariff barriers, and increasing the purchase
 of United States goods and services; and
 (3) ceasing unfair trade practices against the United States which are
 unreasonable and discriminatory and which burden or restrict United States
 commerce.
 (d) WEAPONS PROLIFERATION- The weapons proliferation objectives described
 in this subsection are--
 (1) adopting a national policy which adheres to, and ceasing activities
 inconsistent with--
 (A) the limitations and controls contained in the Missile Technology
 Control Regime;
 (B) the standards and guidelines set by the Nuclear Suppliers Group; and
 (C) the standards and guidelines set by the Australia Group on chemical
 and biological arms proliferation; and
 (2) taking clear and unequivocal steps to assure that the People's Republic
 of China is not assisting and will not assist any nonnuclear weapons state,
 directly or indirectly, in acquiring nuclear explosive devices or the
 materials and components for such devices.
SEC. 4. SANCTIONS BY OTHER COUNTRIES.
 If the President decides not to seek a continuation of a waiver in 1992 under
 section 402(d) of the Trade Act of 1974 for the People's Republic of China,
 he shall, during the 30-day period beginning on the date that the President
 would have recommended to the Congress that such waiver be continued,
 undertake efforts to ensure that members of the General Agreement on Tariffs
 and Trade take similar action with respect to the People's Republic of China.
SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT OF PROHIBITION AGAINST IMPORTATION OF CONVICT-MADE GOODS.
 Section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307) is amended--
 (1) by striking `All goods' and inserting `(a) IN GENERAL- All goods';
 (2) by striking `Forced Labor,' and inserting `(b) FORCED LABOR- `Forced
 Labor,'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(c) PENALTIES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any person who--
 `(A) enters or imports, or attempts to enter or import, goods, wares,
 articles, or merchandise into the customs territory of the United States
 in violation of subsection (a); and
 `(B) knew or should have known that such entry or importation, or attempted
 entry or importation, was in violation of such subsection,
shall be liable to pay to the United States a civil penalty.
 `(2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- Any civil penalty imposed under paragraph (1)
 shall be in an amount not to exceed--
 `(A) $10,000 for one violation;
 `(B) $100,000 in the case of a person previously subject to a penalty for
 one violation under this section; or
 `(C) $1,000,000 in the case of a person previously subject to penalties
 for more than one violation under this section.
 `(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall by regulation prescribe procedures
 for imposing penalties under this section, including, but not limited to,
 prepenalty notice.
SEC. 6. REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT.
 If the President recommends in 1992 that the waiver referred to in section 3
 be continued with respect to the People's Republic of China, the President
 shall include in the document required to be submitted to the Congress by
 section 402(d) of the Trade Act of 1974 a report on the extent to which
 the Government of the People's Republic of China has, during the period
 covered by the report, complied with the provisions of section 3.
SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act:
 (1) ACTS OF INTIMIDATION AND HARASSMENT- The term `acts of intimidation
 and harassment' in section 3(b)(5) means actions taken by the Government
 of the People's Republic of China that are intended to deter or interfere
 with, or to be in retaliation for, the nonviolent expression of political
 beliefs by Chinese citizens within the United States.
 (2) DETAINED AND IMPRISONED- The terms `detained' and `imprisoned' include,
 but are not limited to, incarceration in prisons, jails, labor reform camps,
 labor reeducation camps, and local police detention centers.
 (3) FORCED LABOR- The term `forced labor' has the meaning given to such
 term by section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
 (4) GROSS VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED HUMAN RIGHTS- The term
 `gross violations of internationally recognized human rights' in section
 3(b)(1) includes, but is not limited to, torture, cruel, inhuman, or
 degrading treatment or punishment, prolonged detention without charges and
 trial, causing the disappearance of persons by the abduction and clandestine
 detention of those persons, secret judicial proceedings, and other flagrant
 denial of the right to life, liberty, or the security of any person.
 (5) MISSILE TECHNOLOGY CONTROL REGIME- The term `Missile Technology Control
 Regime' means the agreement, as amended, between the United States, the
 United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and
 Japan, announced on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant
 transfers based on an annex of missile equipment and technology.
 (6) SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS- (A) The term `significant progress' in section
 3(a)(2) means the implementation of measures that will meaningfully reduce,
 or lead to the termination of, the practices identified in that paragraph.
 (B) With respect to section 3(d)(1), progress may not be determined to be
 `significant progress' if the President determines that, on or after November
 26, 1991, the People's Republic of China has transferred to Syria or Iran--
 (i) ballistic missiles or missile launchers for the weapons systems known
 as the M-9 or the M-11; or
 (ii) material, equipment, or technology which would contribute significantly
 to the manufacture of a nuclear explosive device.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.