[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4755 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                    September 21, 2004.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
4755) entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Legislative 
Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2005, and for other 
purposes.'', do pass with the following

                              AMENDMENTS:

(1)Page 2, after line 5, insert the following:

                                 SENATE

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $20,000; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $20,000; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $20,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $20,000; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $10,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $10,000; President 
Pro Tempore emeritus, $7,500; Chairmen of the Majority and Minority 
Conference Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; and Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Policy Committees, $5,000 for each Chairman; in 
all, $127,500.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $134,440,000, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the following 
limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,108,000.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $561,000.

              office of the president pro tempore emeritus

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore emeritus, $163,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $3,408,000.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $2,556,000.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $13,301,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,413,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,826,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $702,000.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,473,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,946,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $341,000.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $19,586,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $50,635,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,528,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $33,779,000.

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $5,152,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,265,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $6,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $6,000; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $6,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $6,000; in all, $24,000.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under section 134(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act 
of 1946 (Public Law 97-601), section 112 of the Supplemental 
Appropriations and Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate 
Resolution 281, 96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $110,000,000.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $520,000.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$1,700,000.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $127,182,000, of which $20,045,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2007, and of which $4,255,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2009.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $18,326,000, of which up to $500,000 shall 
be made available for a pilot program for mailings of postal patron 
postcards by Senators for the purpose of providing notice of a town 
meeting by a Senator in a county (or equivalent unit of local 
government) at which the Senator will personally attend: Provided, That 
any amount allocated to a Senator for such mailing shall not exceed 50 
percent of the cost of the mailing and the remaining cost shall be paid 
by the Senator from other funds available to the Senator.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$326,000,000.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 1. Gross Rate of Compensation in Offices of Senators. 
Effective on and after October 1, 2004, each of the dollar amounts 
contained in the table under section 105(d)(1)(A) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) shall be 
deemed to be the dollar amounts in that table, as adjusted by law and 
in effect on September 30, 2004, increased by an additional $50,000 
each.
    Sec. 2. Consultants. With respect to fiscal year 2005, the first 
sentence of section 101(a) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1977 
(2 U.S.C. 61h-6(a)) shall be applied by substituting ``nine individual 
consultants'' for ``eight individual consultants''.
    Sec. 3. United States Senate Collection. Section 316 of Public Law 
101-302 (2 U.S.C. 2107) is amended in the first sentence of subsection 
(a) by striking ``2004'' and inserting ``2005''.
    Sec. 4. President Pro Tempore Emeritus of the Senate. Section 7(e) 
of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 32b note) 
is amended by inserting ``and the 109th Congress'' after ``108th 
Congress''.
    Sec. 5. Transfer of Funds From Appropriations Account of the Office 
of the Vice President and the Offices of the Secretaries for the 
Majority and Minority to the Senate Contingent Fund. (a) Office of the 
Vice President.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the written request of the Vice 
        President, the Secretary of the Senate shall transfer from the 
        appropriations account appropriated under the subheading 
        ``office of the vice president'' under the heading ``Salaries, 
        Officers and Employees'' such amount as the Vice President 
        shall specify to the appropriations account under the heading 
        `` miscellaneous items'' within the contingent fund of the 
        Senate.
            (2) Authority to incur expenses.--The Vice President may 
        incur such expenses as may be necessary or appropriate. 
        Expenses incurred by the Vice President shall be paid from the 
        amount transferred under paragraph (1) by the Vice President 
        and upon vouchers approved by the Vice President.
            (3) Authority to advance sums.--The Secretary of the Senate 
        may advance such sums as may be necessary to defray expenses 
        incurred in carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (b) Offices of the Secretaries for the Majority and Minority.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the written request of the Secretary 
        for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority, the 
        Secretary of the Senate shall transfer from the appropriations 
        account appropriated under the subheading ``offices of the 
        secretaries for the majority and minority'' under the heading 
        ``Salaries, Officers and Employees'' such amount as the 
        Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority 
        shall specify to the appropriations account under the heading 
        ``miscellaneous items'' within the contingent fund of the 
        Senate.
            (2) Authority to incur expenses.--The Secretary for the 
        Majority or the Secretary for the Minority may incur such 
        expenses as may be necessary or appropriate. Expenses incurred 
        by the Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the 
        Minority shall be paid from the amount transferred under 
        paragraph (1) by the Secretary for the Majority or the 
        Secretary for the Minority and upon vouchers approved by the 
        Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority, 
        as applicable.
            (3) Authority to advance sums.--The Secretary of the Senate 
        may advance such sums as may be necessary to defray expenses 
        incurred in carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 6. Activities Relating to Foreign Parliamentary Groups and 
Foreign Officials. Section 2(c) of chapter VIII of title I of the 
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1987 (2 U.S.C. 65f(c)) is amended in 
the first sentence by striking ``with the approval of'' and inserting 
``and upon notification to''.
    Sec. 7. Transportation of Official Records and Papers to a 
Senator's State. (a) Payment of Reasonable Transportation Expenses.--
Upon request of a Senator, amounts in the appropriation account 
``Miscellaneous Items'' within the contingent fund of the Senate shall 
be available to pay the reasonable expenses of sending or transporting 
the official records and papers of the Senator from the District of 
Columbia to any location designated by such Senator in the State 
represented by the Senator.
    (b) Sending and Transportation.--The Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate shall provide for the most economical means of 
sending or transporting the official records and papers under this 
section while ensuring the orderly and timely delivery of the records 
and papers to the location specified by the Senator.
    (c) Oversight.--The Committee on Rules and Administration shall 
have the authority to issue rules and regulations to carry out the 
provisions of this section.
    (d) Official Records Defined.--In this section, the term ``official 
records and papers'' means books, records, papers, and official files 
which could be sent as franked mail.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2005 and each succeeding fiscal year.
    Sec. 8. Compensation for Lost or Damaged Property. (a) In 
General.--Any amounts received by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate (in this section referred to as the ``Sergeant at Arms'') 
for compensation for damage to, loss of, or loss of use of property of 
the Sergeant at Arms that was procured using amounts available to the 
Sergeant at Arms in the account for Contingent Expenses, Sergeant at 
Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, shall be credited to that account 
or, if applicable, to any subaccount of that account.
    (b) Availability.--Amounts credited to any account or subaccount 
under subsection (a) shall be merged with amounts in that account or 
subaccount and shall be available to the same extent, and subject to 
the same terms and conditions, as amounts in that account or 
subaccount.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 9. Age Requirement for Senate Pages. Section 491(b)(1) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 (2 U.S.C. 88b-1(b)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``fourteen'' and inserting ``sixteen''.
    Sec. 10. Treatment of Electronic Services Provided by Sergeant at 
Arms. The Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the United 
States Senate, and any officer, employee, or agent of the Office, shall 
not be treated as acquiring possession, custody, or control of any 
electronic mail or other electronic communication, data, or information 
by reason of its being transmitted, processed, or stored (whether 
temporarily or otherwise) through the use of an electronic system 
established, maintained, or operated, or the use of electronic services 
provided, in whole or in part by the Office.

(2)Page 9, strike line 20 and all that follows through, Page 21, line 6 
and insert the following:

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,139,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$8,476,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $725 per month each to four medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $725 per month each to two assistants and $580 per month 
each to not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided 
for such assistants; and (4) $1,680,000 for reimbursement to the 
Department of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment 
assigned to the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be 
advanced and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable 
and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, $2,528,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives.

           Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $3,844,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ 
more than 58 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide 
Board is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more 
than 10 additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the 
Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the second session of the 108th Congress, showing 
appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions 
for health, retirement, social security, professional liability 
insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, $198,000,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, domestic travel, foreign 
travel as approved by the Capitol Police Board, travel advances, 
relocation of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on 
the certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $28,925,000, of which 
$700,000 is to remain available until expended, to be disbursed by the 
Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 1001. Transfer Authority. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 
2005 for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the headings 
``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 1002. Limitation on Certain Hiring Authority of Capitol 
Police. Section 1006(b) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2004 (Public Law 108-83; 117 Stat. 1023) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by inserting at the end 
                ``The Chief of Police may hire individuals under this 
                subsection who are not submitted for selection under 
                this subparagraph. All hirings under this subparagraph 
                shall comply with the limitations under this paragraph 
                for any fiscal year.''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``(C) 
                Limitation.--'' and inserting ``(C) Limitation for 
                fiscal year 2004.--''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Limitation for fiscal year 2005.-- During 
                fiscal year 2005, the number of individuals hired under 
                this subsection may not exceed--
                            ``(i) the number of Library of Congress 
                        Police employees who separated from service or 
                        transferred to a position other than a Library 
                        of Congress Police employee position during 
                        fiscal year 2004 for whom a corresponding hire 
                        was not made under this subsection; and
                            ``(ii) the number of Library of Congress 
                        Police employees who separate from service or 
                        transfer to a position other than a Library of 
                        Congress Police employee position during fiscal 
                        year 2005.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the first sentence and 
        inserting ``Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1)(C), the Chief of 
        the Capitol Police may detail an individual hired under this 
        subsection to the Library of Congress Police on a 
        nonreimbursable basis. Any individual detailed under this 
        subsection shall receive necessary training, including training 
        by the Library of Congress Police.''.
    Sec. 1003. Compensation for Damaged or Lost Property. (a) In 
General.--Any amounts received by the Capitol Police for compensation 
for damage to, loss of, or loss of use of property of the Capitol 
Police (including any insurance payments or payment made by an officer 
or civilian employee of the Capitol Police) shall be credited to the 
account established for the general expenses of the Capitol Police, and 
shall be available to carry out the purposes of such account during the 
fiscal year in which the amounts are received and the following fiscal 
year.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 1004. Participation in Voluntary Transfer of Leave With Other 
Agencies. (a) In General.--The Office of Personnel Management shall 
apply the regulations prescribed under section 6334(c) of title 5, 
United States Code, to the Capitol Police to provide for the 
participation of employees of the Capitol Police in the voluntary 
transfer of leave between employees of different agencies under 
subchapter III of chapter 63 of that title.
    (b) Certification of Leave Accounts.--For purposes of this section, 
the Office of Personnel Management shall accept the certification of 
the Chief of the Capitol Police of the amount of annual leave in the 
annual leave account of any leave donor or leave recipient who is an 
employee of the Capitol Police.
    (c) Regulations.--After consultation with the Chief of the Capitol 
Police, the Office of Personnel Management may prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 1005. Authorization of Weapons. Section 1824 of the Revised 
Statutes (2 U.S.C. 1941) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``The Sergeant at Arms of the 
                Senate and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
                Representatives'' and inserting ``The Capitol Police 
                Board''; and
                    (B) by striking all beginning with ``payable out'' 
                through the period and inserting ``payable from 
                appropriations to the Capitol Police upon certification 
                of payment by the Chief of the Capitol Police.''; and
            (2) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by inserting ``or other arms as authorized by 
                the Capitol Police Board'' after ``furnished''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the Sergeant at Arms of the 
                Senate and the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
                Representatives'' and inserting ``the Capitol Police 
                Board''.
    Sec. 1006. Release of Security Information. (a) Definition.--In 
this section, the term ``security information'' means information 
that--
            (1) is sensitive with respect to the policing, protection, 
        physical security, intelligence, counterterrorism actions, or 
        emergency preparedness and response relating to Congress, any 
        statutory protectee of the Capitol Police, and the Capitol 
        buildings and grounds; and
            (2) is obtained by, on behalf of, or concerning the Capitol 
        Police Board, the Capitol Police, or any incident command 
        relating to emergency response.
    (b) Authority of Board To Determine Conditions of Release.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any security information in 
the possession of the Capitol Police may be released by the Capitol 
Police to another entity, including an individual, only if the Capitol 
Police Board determines in consultation with other appropriate law 
enforcement officials, experts in security preparedness, and 
appropriate committees of Congress, that the release of the security 
information will not compromise the security and safety of the Capitol 
buildings and grounds or any individual whose protection and safety is 
under the jurisdiction of the Capitol Police.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to affect the ability of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
(including any Member, officer, or committee of either House of 
Congress) to obtain information from the Capitol Police regarding the 
operations and activities of the Capitol Police that affect the Senate 
and House of Representatives.
    (d) Regulations.--The Capitol Police Board may promulgate 
regulations to carry out this section, with the approval of the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate and the Committee 
on House Administration of the House of Representatives.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date of 
enactment of this Act and apply with respect to--
            (1) any remaining portion of fiscal year 2004, if this Act 
        is enacted before October 1, 2004; and
            (2) fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 1007. Acceptance of Donations of Animals. (a) In General.--The 
Capitol Police may accept the donation of animals to be used in the 
canine or equine units of the Capitol Police.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 1008. Settlement and Payment of Tort Claims. (a) Federal Tort 
Claims Act.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) with 
        respect to the Senate, the Chief of the Capitol Police, in 
        accordance with regulations prescribed by the Attorney General 
        and any regulations as the Capitol Police Board may prescribe, 
        may consider, ascertain, determine, compromise, adjust, and 
        settle, in accordance with the provisions of chapter 171 of 
        title 28, United States Code, any claim for money damages 
        against the United States for injury or loss of property or 
        personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful 
        act or omission of any employee of the Capitol Police while 
        acting within the scope of his office or employment, under 
        circumstances where the United States, if a private person, 
        would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of 
        the place where the act or omission occurred.
            (2) Senate.--
                    (A) In general.--With respect to any claim of a 
                Senator or an employee whose pay is disbursed by the 
                Secretary of the Senate, the Chief of the Capitol 
                Police shall--
                            (i) not later than 14 days after the 
                        receipt of such a claim, notify the Chairman of 
                        the Committee on Rules and Administration of 
                        the receipt of the claim; and
                            (ii) not later than 90 days after the 
                        receipt of such a claim, submit a proposal for 
                        the resolution of such claim which shall be 
                        subject to the approval of the Chairman of the 
                        Committee on Rules and Administration.
                    (B) Extension.--The 90-day period in subparagraph 
                (A)(ii) may be extended, not to exceed 90 days, for 
                good cause by the Chairman of the Committee on Rules 
                and Administration upon the request of the Chief of the 
                Capitol Police.
            (3) Head of agency.--For purposes of section 2672 of title 
        28, United States Code, the Chief of the Capitol Police shall 
        be the head of a Federal agency with respect to the Capitol 
        Police.
            (4) Regulations.--The Capitol Police Board may prescribe 
        regulations to carry out this subsection.
    (b) Claims of Employees of Capitol Police.--
            (1) In general.--The Capitol Police Board may prescribe 
        regulations to apply the provisions of section 3721 of title 
        31, United States Code, for the settlement and payment of a 
        claim against the Capitol Police by an employee of the Capitol 
        Police for damage to, or loss of personal property incident to 
        service.
            (2) Limitation.--No settlement and payment of a claim under 
        regulations prescribed under this subsection may exceed $2,000.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to affect--
            (1) any payment under section 1304 of title 31, United 
        States Code, of a final judgement, award, compromise 
        settlement, and interest and costs specified in the judgment 
        based on a claim against the Capitol Police; or
            (2) any authority for any--
                    (A) settlement under section 414 of the 
                Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
                1414); or
                    (B) payment under section 415 of that Act (2 U.S.C. 
                1415).
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 1009. Foreign Travel Authorization. Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law and subject to the approval of the Capitol Police 
Board, the Capitol Police are authorized, in a non-law enforcement 
capacity, to travel with and assist overseas congressional delegations 
in a security advisory and liaison role, including advance security 
liaison preparations for such congressional foreign travel.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $2,421,000: Provided, That the Executive Director 
of the Office of Compliance may, within the limits of available 
appropriations, dispose of surplus or obsolete personal property by 
interagency transfer, donation, or discarding.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $3,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $34,790,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used for the purchase or hire of a passenger motor vehicle.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official representation 
and reception expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $74,063,000, of which $720,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2009.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $24,784,000, of which $8,770,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2009.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $6,940,000.

                        Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $62,303,000, of which $9,070,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2009.

(3)Page 21, strike line 12 and all that follows through, Page 50, line 
13 and insert the following:

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $60,928,000, of which $2,190,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2009: Provided, That not more than $4,400,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2005.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$65,145,000, of which $47,114,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2009.

                  Capitol Police Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care, and operation 
of buildings and grounds of the United States Capitol Police, 
$7,090,000, of which $1,500,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2009.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $6,294,000: Provided, That this 
appropriation shall not be available for construction of the National 
Garden.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $379,648,000, of which 
not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 2005, and shall remain available 
until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 
480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2005 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the 
Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from 
collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than the 
$6,350,000: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$11,981,000 shall remain available until expended for the partial 
acquisition of books, periodicals, newspapers, and all other materials 
including subscriptions for bibliographic services for the Library, 
including $40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, when 
specifically approved by the Librarian, of special and unique materials 
for additions to the collections: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, $1,175,000 
shall remain available until expended for the purpose of teaching 
educators and librarians how to incorporate the Library's digital 
collections into school curricula and shall be transferred to the 
educational consortium formed to conduct the ``Adventure of the 
American Mind'' project as approved by the Library: Provided further, 
That of the amount appropriated, $500,000 shall remain available until 
expended, and shall be transferred to the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial 
Commission for carrying out the purposes of Public Law 106-173, of 
which $10,000 may be used for official representation and reception 
expenses of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission: Provided 
further, That of the total amount appropriated, $15,620,000 shall 
remain available until expended for partial support of the National 
Audio-Visual Conservation Center: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $2,795,000 shall remain available until expended 
for the development and maintenance of the Alternate Computer Facility: 
Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, $500,000 shall be 
used to provide a grant to the Middle Eastern Text Initiative for 
translation and publishing of middle eastern text.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $53,518,000, of 
which not more than $26,843,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2005 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $6,496,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2005 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 802(h), 1005, and 1316 of such title: Provided further, That 
the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $33,339,000: Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies: Provided further, That not more than $4,250 
may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for 
activities of the International Copyright Institute and for copyright 
delegations, visitors, and seminars.

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $96,678,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used 
to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General 
Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication 
has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $53,937,000, of which 
$15,960,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1101. Incentive Awards Program. Of the amounts appropriated to 
the Library of Congress in this Act, not more than $5,000 may be 
expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for the 
incentive awards program.
    Sec. 1102. Reimbursable and Revolving Fund Activities. (a) In 
General.--For fiscal year 2005, the obligational authority of the 
Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) may 
not exceed $106,985,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2005, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``LIBRARY OF CONGRESS'' under the subheading ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK Program and the 
Federal Research Program established under section 103 of the Library 
of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-
481; 2 U.S.C. 182c): Provided, That the total amount of such transfers 
may not exceed $1,900,000: Provided further, That the appropriate 
revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any amounts 
transferred to it before the period of availability of the Library 
appropriation expires.
    Sec. 1103. National Digital Information Infrastructure and 
Preservation Program. The Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001 
(enacted into law by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106-554, 114 Stat. 
2763A-194) is amended in the first proviso under the subheading 
``Salaries and Expenses'' under the heading ``LIBRARY OF CONGRESS'' in 
chapter 9 of division A--
            (1) by inserting ``and pledges'' after ``other than 
        money''; and
            (2) by striking ``March 31, 2005'' and inserting ``March 
        31, 2010''.
    Sec. 1104. Construction of United States Diplomatic Facilities. 
None of the funds in this Act may be used to pay any fee charged by the 
Department of State for the purpose of constructing United States 
diplomatic facilities.
    Sec. 1105. National Film Preservation Board and National Film 
Preservation Foundation. (a) Effective Dates.--Notwithstanding the 
effective date under section 113 of the National Film Preservation Act 
of 1996 (2 U.S.C. 179w), title I of that Act shall be considered to be 
effective through fiscal year 2005.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 151711(a) of title 
36, United States Code, is amended by striking ``2003'' and inserting 
``2005''.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States 
Code); printing and binding of Government publications authorized by 
law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, 
and distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $88,800,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code: Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $31,935,000: Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2003 and 2004 to 
depository and other designated libraries: Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office may make such expenditures, within 
the limits of funds available and in accord with the law, and to make 
such contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year 
limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States 
Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and purposes set 
forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the Government 
Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than $5,000 may 
be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in connection 
with official representation and reception expenses: Provided further, 
That the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of 
not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided further, That 
expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the advisory 
councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to carry out 
the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That 
the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 
5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving fund and the 
funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together may not be available 
for the full-time equivalent employment of more than 2,621 workyears 
(or such other number of workyears as the Public Printer may request, 
subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate): Provided further, That activities 
financed through the revolving fund may provide information in any 
format: Provided further, That not more than $10,000 may be expended 
from the revolving fund in support of the activities of the Benjamin 
Franklin Tercentenary Commission established by Public Law 107-202.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 1301. Discounts for Sales Copies. Section 1708 of title 44, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``of not to exceed 25 
percent may be allowed to book dealers and quantity purchasers'', and 
inserting in lieu thereof the following: ``may be allowed as determined 
by the Superintendent of Documents''.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under section 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $470,000,000: Provided, That not more than 
$4,919,000 of payments received under section 782 of title 31, United 
States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal year 2005: Provided 
further, That not more than $2,500,000 of reimbursements received under 
section 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be available for 
use in fiscal year 2005: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the American Consortium 
on International Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, 
including any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the 
International Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 1401. Reports to the Comptroller General. (a) Limitations on 
Expenditures, Obligations, and Voluntary Services.--Section 1351 of 
title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``A copy of each 
report shall also be transmitted to the Comptroller General on the same 
date the report is transmitted to the President and Congress.'' after 
the first sentence.
    (b) Prohibited Obligations and Expenditures.--Section 1517(b) of 
title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``A copy of each 
report shall also be transmitted to the Comptroller General on the same 
date the report is transmitted to the President and Congress.'' after 
the first sentence.

         PAYMENT TO THE OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center, $13,500,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 1501. Expansion of Open World Leadership Countries.--Section 
313(j) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 
1151(j)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) any other country that is designated by the Board, 
        except that the Board shall notify the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        of the designation at least 90 days before the designation is 
        to take effect.''.

                      TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 201. Maintenance and Care of Private Vehicles. No part of the 
funds appropriated in this Act shall be used for the maintenance or 
care of private vehicles, except for emergency assistance and cleaning 
as may be provided under regulations relating to parking facilities for 
the House of Representatives issued by the Committee on House 
Administration and for the Senate issued by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration.
    Sec. 202. Fiscal Year Limitation. No part of the funds appropriated 
in this Act shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 
2005 unless expressly so provided in this Act.
    Sec. 203. Rates of Compensation and Designation. Whenever in this 
Act any office or position not specifically established by the 
Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 32 et seq.) is appropriated for 
or the rate of compensation or designation of any office or position 
appropriated for is different from that specifically established by 
such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation in this Act 
shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, That the 
provisions in this Act for the various items of official expenses of 
Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the House 
of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect thereto.
    Sec. 204. Consulting Services. The expenditure of any appropriation 
under this Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, 
under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to 
those contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record 
and available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided 
under existing law, or under existing Executive order issued under 
existing law.
    Sec. 205. Awards and Settlements. Such sums as may be necessary are 
appropriated to the account described in subsection (a) of section 415 
of the Congressional Accountability Act (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay 
awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 206. Costs of LBFMC. Amounts available for administrative 
expenses of any legislative branch entity which participates in the 
Legislative Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by 
charter on March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate 
share of LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total 
LBFMC costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch 
entities (in such allocations among the entities as the entities may 
determine) may not exceed $2,000.
    Sec. 207. Limitation on Transfers. None of the funds made available 
in this Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government, except pursuant to a 
transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any 
other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 208. Voluntary Compliance With Government eTravel Service 
Regulation. (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``agency'' means 
the--
            (1) Architect of the Capitol;
            (2) Congressional Budget Office;
            (3) Government Accountability Office;
            (4) Government Printing Office;
            (5) Library of Congress; and
            (6) Office of Compliance.
    (b) Compliance Election.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, an agency, at the discretion of the head of the agency, may--
            (1) elect to comply with the requirements of parts 300-3, 
        301-50, 301-52, 301-70, and 301-73 of title 41 of the Code of 
        Federal Regulations, or any modification to those requirements, 
        (relating to the Governmentwide eTravel Service); and
            (2) if the head of the agency makes an election to comply 
        under paragraph (1), enter into an agreement with the General 
        Services Administration to modify those requirements, as 
        applicable to that agency, relating to confidentiality of 
        information or other concerns of the head of the agency.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 209. Congressional Recognition for Excellence in Arts 
Education. Section 210 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2003 is amended--
            (1) by striking the first proviso; and
            (2) by striking ``Provide further,'' and inserting 
        ``Provided,''.
    Sec. 210. Transfer of Jurisdiction Over Real Property Near Japanese 
American Patriotism Memorial. (a) Transfer of Jurisdiction.--
            (1) In general.--Jurisdiction over the parcels of Federal 
        real property described under paragraph (2) (over which 
        jurisdiction was transferred under section 514(b)(2)(C) of the 
        Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (40 
        U.S.C. 5102 note; Public Law 104-333)) is transferred to the 
        Architect of the Capitol, without consideration.
            (2) Parcels.--The parcels of Federal real property referred 
        to under paragraph (1) are the following:
                    (A) That portion of New Jersey Avenue, N.W., 
                between the northernmost point of the intersection of 
                New Jersey Avenue, N.W., and D Street, N.W., and the 
                northernmost point of the intersection of New Jersey 
                Avenue, N.W., and Louisiana Avenue, N.W., between 
                squares 631 and W632, which remains Federal property, 
                and whose maintenance and repair shall be the 
                responsibility of the District of Columbia.
                    (B) That portion of D Street, N.W., between its 
                intersection with New Jersey Avenue, N.W., and its 
                intersection with Louisiana Avenue, N.W., between 
                squares 630 and W632, which remains Federal property.
    (b) Miscellaneous.--
            (1) Compliance with other laws.--Compliance with this 
        section shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of all laws 
        otherwise applicable to transfers of jurisdiction over parcels 
        of Federal real property.
            (2) United states capitol grounds.--
                    (A) Definition.--Section 5102 of title 40, United 
                States Code, is amended to include within the 
                definition of the United States Capitol Grounds the 
                parcels of Federal real property described in 
                subsection (a)(2).
                    (B) Jurisdiction of capitol police.--The United 
                States Capitol Police shall have jurisdiction over the 
                parcels of Federal real property described in 
                subsection (a)(2) in accordance with section 9 of the 
                Act entitled ``An Act to define the United States 
                Capitol Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for 
                other purposes'', approved July 31, 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
                1961).
            (3) Effect of transfer.--A person relinquishing 
        jurisdiction over any parcel of Federal real property 
        transferred by subsection (a) shall not retain any interest in 
        the parcel except as specifically provided in this section.
    (c) Effective Date.--This Act shall apply to fiscal year 2005 and 
each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 211. Commission on the Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship 
Program.--(a) Appropriation.--There are appropriated, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2005, $495,000, for the Commission on the Abraham Lincoln 
Study Abroad Fellowship Program established under section 104 of 
division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public Law 
108-199; 118 Stat. 435).
    (b) Extension of Report and Termination Dates.--Section 104 of 
division H of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public Law 
108-199; 118 Stat. 435) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (f), by striking ``December 1, 2004'' and 
        inserting ``December 1, 2005''; and
            (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``December 31, 2004'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2005''.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2005''.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
108th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4755

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENTS