[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3104 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3104

                       One Hundred Eighth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the twentieth day of January, two thousand and four


                                 An Act


 
   To provide for the establishment of separate campaign medals to be 
    awarded to members of the uniformed services who participate in 
Operation Enduring Freedom and to members of the uniformed services who 
                 participate in Operation Iraqi Freedom.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SEPARATE MILITARY CAMPAIGN MEDALS TO RECOGNIZE SERVICE IN 
              OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM AND SERVICE IN OPERATION IRAQI 
              FREEDOM.

    (a) Requirement.--The President shall establish a campaign medal 
specifically to recognize service by members of the uniformed services 
in Operation Enduring Freedom and a separate campaign medal 
specifically to recognize service by members of the uniformed services 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom.
    (b) Eligibility.--Subject to such limitations as may be prescribed 
by the President, eligibility for a campaign medal established pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall be set forth in regulations to be prescribed by 
the Secretary concerned (as defined in section 101 of title 10, United 
States Code). In the case of regulations prescribed by the Secretaries 
of the military departments, the regulations shall be subject to 
approval by the Secretary of Defense and shall be uniform throughout 
the Department of Defense.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.