--H.R.1231--
H.R.1231
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To establish a commission to investigate and report respecting the dispute
between
Eastern Airlines and its collective bargaining units, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.
 There is established a commission (hereinafter in this Act referred to
 as `the Commission') to investigate the labor dispute involving Eastern
 Airlines and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
 Workers, the Airline Pilots Association, and the Transport Workers Union.
SEC. 2. MEMBERSHIP.
 (a) COMPOSITION- The Commission shall consist of four members, of which
 not later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this Act--
 (1) one member of the Commission shall be appointed by the President Pro
 Tempore of the Senate;
 (2) one member of the Commission shall be appointed by the Speaker of the
 House of Representatives;
 (3) one member of the Commission shall be appointed by the Minority Leader
 of the Senate; and
 (4) one member of the Commission shall be appointed by the Minority Leader
 of the House of Representatives.
 (b) VACANCIES- A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same
 manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (c) CHAIRPERSON- The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among the
 members of the Commission.
 (d) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or
 a majority of the Commission.
SEC. 3. DUTIES.
 The Commission shall--
 (1) investigate and make findings of fact and recommendations regarding
 the prompt and equitable settlement of the dispute referred to in section 1;
 (2) consider issues arising out of the dispute; and
 (3) make policy recommendations to Congress and the Secretary of
 Transportation concerning--
 (A) the powers of the Secretary to intervene on behalf of the public interest
 to maintain competitiveness in the aviation industry in light of mergers,
 acquisitions, and bankruptcies of air carriers; and
 (B) the adequacy of protection of employee collective bargaining rights in
 bankruptcy proceedings involving air carriers.
SEC. 4. REPORT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Commission shall submit to Congress and the Secretary of
 Transportation a written report containing its findings and recommendations.
 (b) AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC- The Secretary of Transportation shall make the
 report available to the public.
SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) INFORMATION- The heads of executive agencies, the General Accounting
 Office, and the Congressional Budget Office, to the extent permitted by law,
 shall provide the Commission with such information as the Commission may
 require in carrying out the duties and functions of the Commission.
 (b) Compensation-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the Commission
 shall serve without any additional compensation for work performed on
 the Commission.
 (2) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Such members who are private citizens of the United
 States may be allowed travel expenses, including a per diem in lieu of
 subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in
 the Government service under sections 5701 through 5707 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 (c) STAFF- Subject to the approval of the Secretary of Transportation and
 without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
 appointments in the competitive service or the provisions of chapter 51 and
 subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and
 General Schedule pay rates, the Chairperson of the Commission may hire and
 fix the compensation of such staff personnel as the Commission determines
 are necessary to carry out duties and functions of the Commission.
 (d) Personnel and Support Services-
 (1) DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION- On request of the Commission, the Secretary
 of Transportation shall furnish the Commission with such personnel and
 support services as are necessary to assist the Commission in carrying out
 the duties and functions of the Commission.
 (2) OTHER AGENCIES- On the request of the Commission, the heads of other
 executive agencies and the General Accounting Office may furnish the
 Commission with such personnel and support services as the head of the agency
 or Office and the Chairperson of the Commission agree are necessary to assist
 the Commission in carrying out the duties and functions of the Commission.
 (3) REIMBURSEMENT- The Commission shall not be required to pay or reimburse
 an agency or the Office for personnel and support services provided under
 this section.
 (e) Records-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In accordance with section 12 of the Federal Advisory
 Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. 2), the Secretary of Transportation shall
 maintain records of--
 (A) the disposition of any funds that may be at the disposal of the
 Commission; and
 (B) the nature and extent of activities of the Commission.
 (2) GAO ACCESS- The Comptroller General of the United States shall have
 access to such records for the purpose of audit and examination.
 (f) EXEMPTION FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS- The Commission shall be exempt from
 sections 7(d), 10(e), 10(f), and 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act
 and sections 4301 through 4308 of title 5 of the United States Code.
SEC. 6. FUNDING.
 This Act shall be carried out using funds otherwise available to the
 Secretary of Transportation for the expenses of advisory committees.
SEC. 7. TERMINATION.
 This Act and the Commission shall terminate on the submission of the report
 required under section 4.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.