--H.R.2508--
H.R.2508
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to rewrite the authorities of that
Act in order to establish more effective assistance programs and eliminate
obsolete and inconsistent provisions, to amend the Arms Export Control Act
and to redesignate that Act as the Defense Trade and Export Control Act,
to authorize appropriations for foreign assistance programs for fiscal years
1992 and 1993, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `International Cooperation Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) ORGANIZATION OF ACT- This Act is organized into titles as follows:
Title I--Economic Assistance
Title II--Military Assistance and Sales and Related Programs
Title III--International Narcotics Control
Title IV--Special Authorities, Restrictions, Reporting Requirements,
Administrative and General Provisions, Definitions, and Conforming Amendments
and Repeals
Title V--Europe
Title VI--Middle East
Title VII--Latin America and the Caribbean
Title VIII--Enterprise for the Americas
Title IX--Asia and the Pacific
Title X--Africa
Title XI--Aid, Trade, and Competitiveness
Title XII--Peace Corps
Title XIII--International Development and Finance
Title XIV--Miscellaneous
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Statement of United States foreign policy.
TITLE I--ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
Sec. 101. General policies and objectives.
Sec. 102. Authorizations of appropriations for development assistance.
Sec. 103. Assistance for individuals with disabilities and for displaced
children.
Sec. 104. Agriculture, rural development, and nutrition.
Sec. 105. Population planning.
Sec. 106. Health.
Sec. 107. Private sector, environment, energy, and other development
assistance.
Sec. 108. Appropriate technology international.
Sec. 109. Private sector guarantee program.
Sec. 110. Cost sharing.
Sec. 111. Women in development.
Sec. 112. Environment and natural resources.
Sec. 113. Private voluntary organizations.
Sec. 114. Evaluation.
Sec. 115. American schools and hospitals abroad.
Sec. 116. Housing and other credit guarantee programs.
Sec. 117. Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
Sec. 118. Microenterprise development.
Sec. 119. Assistance for human rights and democratic initiatives.
Sec. 120. Voluntary contributions to international organizations and programs.
Sec. 121. Debt for development.
Sec. 122. International disaster assistance.
Sec. 123. Economic Support Fund.
Sec. 123. Authorizations of appropriations for economic support fund
assistance.
Sec. 124. Purchase of United States goods and services.
Sec. 125. Trade and Development Agency.
Sec. 126. Authorizations of appropriations for operating expenses.
Sec. 127. Cooperation with nongovernmental sector.
Sec. 128. Policy and report on further management reform.
TITLE II--MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES AND RELATED PROGRAMS
Chapter 1--Military Assistance and Related Programs
Sec. 201. Statement of policy and objectives.
Sec. 202. Foreign military financing assistance.
Sec. 203. Authorizations of appropriations for foreign military financing
assistance.
Sec. 204. Conditions of eligibility.
Sec. 205. Defense drawdown special authorities.
Sec. 206. Improved accountability with respect to financed commercial
arms sales.
Sec. 207. Stockpiles.
Sec. 208. Overseas management of assistance and sales programs.
Sec. 209. Excess defense articles.
Sec. 210. International military education and training.
Sec. 211. Peacekeeping operations.
Sec. 212. International terrorism.
Sec. 213. Responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense for end-use monitoring.
Sec. 214. Quarterly reports on procurement outside the United States.
Chapter 2--Foreign Military Sales Program
Sec. 221. Arms transfer policy.
Sec. 222. Improved accounting for foreign military sales.
Sec. 223. Designation of major non-NATO allies.
Sec. 224. Certification thresholds.
Sec. 225. Standardizing congressional review procedures for arms transfers.
Sec. 226. Foreign availability.
Sec. 227. Economic impact on United States of arms sales.
Sec. 228. Coproduction agreements.
Sec. 229. Enforcement of arms export licensing requirements.
Sec. 230. Biennial review of the international traffic in arms regulations.
Sec. 231. Contract administrative service charges for NATO subsidiary bodies.
Sec. 232. Sales of depleted uranium shells.
Chapter 3--Technical and Conforming Amendments; Repeal of Obsolete and
Inconsistent Provisions
Sec. 241. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 242. Amendments to eliminate obsolete and inconsistent provisions.
Sec. 243. Technical corrections.
Chapter 4--Transfers of Spoils of War
Sec. 261. Short title.
Sec. 262. Transfers of spoils of war.
Sec. 263. Construction of provisions.
Sec. 264. Definitions.
Chapter 5--Arms Transfers Restraint Policy for the Middle East and Persian
Gulf Region
Sec. 281. Findings.
Sec. 282. Multilateral arms transfer and control regime.
Sec. 283. Limitation on United States arms sales to the region.
Sec. 284. Reports to the Congress.
Sec. 285. Relevant congressional committees defined.
TITLE III--INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL
Sec. 301. Authorizations of appropriations.
Sec. 302. Amendments relating to certain authorities and requirements.
Sec. 303. Annual reporting and certification requirements.
Sec. 304. Technical and conforming provisions; repeal of obsolete provisions.
Sec. 305. Exemption of narcotics-related military assistance for fiscal years
1992 and 1993 from prohibition on assistance for law enforcement agencies.
Sec. 306. Waiver of restrictions for narcotics-related economic assistance.
Sec. 307. Export-Import Bank financing of antinarcotics-related sales of
defense articles or services.
TITLE IV--SPECIAL AUTHORITIES, RESTRICTIONS, REPORTING REQUIREMENTS,
ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEFINITIONS, AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
AND REPEALS
Chapter 1--Contingency and Other Special Authorities
Sec. 401. Presidential Contingency Fund.
Sec. 402. Democracy Contingency Fund.
Sec. 403. Unanticipated contingencies.
Sec. 404. Transfer authority.
Sec. 405. Special waiver authority.
Chapter 2--Restrictions on Assistance and Exemptions From Restrictions
Sec. 411. Restrictions on law enforcement assistance: applicability to
non-funded assistance, consolidation of exceptions.
Sec. 412. Consolidation of certain restrictions.
Sec. 413. Exemptions from restrictions.
Chapter 3--Reports
Sec. 421. Human rights policy and reports.
Sec. 422. Congressional presentation documents for economic assistance.
Sec. 423. Notification of program changes.
Sec. 424. Annual allocation reports.
Chapter 4--Administrative and General Provisions
Sec. 431. Use of private enterprise.
Sec. 432. Procurement.
Sec. 433. Reimbursable programs.
Sec. 434. Special accounts for and use of host-country owned local currency.
Sec. 435. Authority for extended period of availability of appropriations.
Sec. 436. Termination expenses.
Sec. 437. Interest on local currency accruing to nongovernmental organizations.
Sec. 438. Exemptions from certain provisions restricting the availability
of funds.
Sec. 439. Requirement of Senate confirmation for specific positions in the
agency for international development.
Sec. 440. Personnel detailed to the Agency for International Development.
Sec. 441. Funds allocated to the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation.
Sec. 442. Terms and conditions of assistance.
Sec. 443. Contracting with individuals.
Sec. 444. Facilities abroad.
Sec. 445. Coordination of United States policies and programs affecting
development.
Sec. 446. Recognition of American generosity.
Sec. 447. Discrimination against United States personnel providing assistance.
Chapter 5--Definitions
Sec. 451. Definitions designating various assistance programs.
Sec. 452. Definition of appropriate congressional committees.
Sec. 453. Additional definitions.
Chapter 6--Conforming Amendments and Repeals
Sec. 461. Conforming amendments and repeal of obsolete provisions of the
Foreign Assistance Act.
Sec. 462. Repeal of obsolete provisions of annual foreign assistance Acts.
Sec. 463. Some conforming amendments to other Acts.
TITLE V--EUROPE
Chapter 1--Support for East European Democracy Act
Sec. 501. Amendments to SEED Act of 1989.
Sec. 502. United States policy regarding Eastern Europe.
Sec. 503. East European countries eligible for SEED benefits.
Sec. 504. Structural adjustment.
Sec. 505. Private sector development.
Sec. 506. Trade and investment.
Sec. 507. Educational, cultural, and scientific activities.
Sec. 508. Other assistance programs.
Sec. 509. Additional SEED Program actions.
Sec. 510. Funding of SEED Program.
Sec. 511. Conforming amendments to list of SEED Actions.
Sec. 512. Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe.
Chapter 2--Other Provisions Relating to the Region
Sec. 521. Soviet-Eastern European Research and Training Program.
Sec. 522. Condemnation of anti-semitism and ethnic intolerance in Romania.
Sec. 523. Nagorno-Karabakh crisis.
Sec. 524. Andrei Sakharov educational exchange program.
Sec. 525. Crisis in Yugoslavia.
Sec. 526. Anglo-Irish International Fund.
Sec. 527. United States policy regarding the Eastern Mediterranean.
Sec. 528. Assistance for the Eastern Mediterranean.
TITLE VI--MIDDLE EAST
Sec. 601. Assistance for Israel.
Sec. 602. Assistance for Egypt.
Sec. 603. Promoting pluralism and democracy in the Middle East and North
Africa.
Sec. 604. West Bank and Gaza program.
Sec. 605. Middle East cooperative scientific and technological projects.
Sec. 606. Cooperative development projects.
Sec. 607. Israeli-Palestinian people-to-people activities.
Sec. 608. Policy toward and assistance for Lebanon.
Sec. 609. Restrictions and reports with regard to Syria.
Sec. 610. Peace and stability in the Middle East.
Sec. 611. Cumulative impact on Israel of United States conventional arms
transfers to the Middle East.
Sec. 612. Restrictions on negotiations with the Palestine Liberation
Organization.
Sec. 613. PLO commitments compliance.
Sec. 614. United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379.
Sec. 615. Democratic reform and human rights in Kuwait.
Sec. 616. Use of United States subcontractors in Kuwait.
Sec. 617. Iraqi war crimes and crimes against humanity.
Sec. 618. Report on transfers of spoils of war.
Sec. 619. 1981 Israeli preemptive strike against the Iraqi nuclear reactor
at Osirak.
TITLE VII--LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Chapter 1--Central America and the Caribbean
Subchapter A--Central America
Sec. 701. Promoting Central American recovery and development.
Sec. 702. Assistance for Guatemala.
Sec. 703. Assistance for Nicaragua.
Sec. 704. Assistance for refugees and displaced persons.
Sec. 705. Assistance for democratic legislatures.
Sec. 706. Central American journalism program and the regional administration
of justice program.
Sec. 707. Policy on military base rights in Panama.
Subchapter B--The Caribbean
Sec. 711. Caribbean regional development.
Sec. 712. Assistance for Haiti.
Sec. 713. Haitian sugar cane harvesters in the Dominican Republic.
Sec. 714. Assistance for Guyana.
Sec. 715. Democracy in Suriname.
Sec. 716. Human rights in Cuba.
Sec. 717. Prohibition on certain transactions between certain United States
subsidiaries and Cuba.
Subchapter C--Provisions Relating to Both Central America and the Caribbean
Sec. 721. Military aircraft transfers.
Chapter 2--South America
Subchapter A--Andean Initiative
Sec. 731. Economic assistance and administration of justice programs for
Andean countries.
Sec. 732. Military and law enforcement assistance for Andean countries.
Sec. 733. General provisions relating to assistance for Andean countries.
Sec. 734. Colombia's efforts to combat international narcotics trafficking.
Subchapter B--Other Provisions Relating to South America
Sec. 741. Argentina and Brazil's common nuclear policy.
Sec. 742. Military assistance and sales for Chile.
Chapter 3--Other Provisions Pertaining to the Region
Sec. 751. Inter-American Foundation.
Sec. 752. Support of international efforts against the spread of cholera.
Sec. 753. Strengthening civilian control over the military.
Sec. 754. Assistance for law enforcement.
Sec. 755. Indigenous peoples in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Sec. 756. Authority to forgive repayment of an Alliance for Progress loan.
TITLE VIII--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICA INITIATIVE
Sec. 801. Short title.
Chapter 1--Foreign Assistance Act Debt Reduction
Sec. 811. Purpose.
Sec. 812. Definitions.
Sec. 813. Eligibility for benefits under the facility.
Sec. 814. Reduction of certain debt.
Sec. 815. Repayment of principal.
Sec. 816. Interest on new obligations.
Sec. 817. Establishment of, deposits into, and disbursements from an Enterprise
for the Americas Fund.
Sec. 818. Americas Framework Agreements.
Sec. 819. Enterprise for the Americas Board.
Chapter 2--Export-Import Bank Debt Reduction
Sec. 821. Export-Import Bank debt reduction.
Chapter 3--Participation of the Inter-American Development Bank
Sec. 831. Role of Inter-American Development Bank and other programs in
fostering investment reform.
Sec. 832. Enterprise for the Americas Investment Fund.
Chapter 4--International University for the Americas
Sec. 841. Purpose.
Sec. 842. Establishment.
Sec. 843. Faculty, students, and curriculum.
Sec. 844. Funding.
Chapter 5--Reports
Sec. 851. Annual reports to Congress.
TITLE IX--ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Chapter 1--East Asia and the Pacific
Sec. 901. Burma.
Sec. 902. Cambodia.
Sec. 903. Arms transfers by the People's Republic of China to certain
countries.
Sec. 904. Prohibition on military assistance to Fiji.
Sec. 905. Support of humanitarian projects in Laos.
Sec. 906. Malaysia.
Sec. 907. Assistance for Mongolia.
Sec. 908. Multilateral Assistance Initiative for the Philippines.
Sec. 909. South Pacific regional program.
Sec. 910. Policy toward the future of Taiwan.
Sec. 911. Admission of Asian countries into the OECD.
Chapter 2--South Asia
Sec. 921. Assistance for Afghanistan.
Sec. 922. United States support for democracy and development in Bangladesh.
Sec. 923. Human rights in India.
Sec. 924. Nepal.
Sec. 925. Pakistan.
Sec. 926. Promotion of human rights in Sri Lanka.
Chapter 3--Economic Cooperation Projects in China and Tibet
Sec. 941. Statement of principles.
Sec. 942. Registration requirement.
Sec. 943. Reporting requirement.
Sec. 944. Definitions.
Sec. 945. Enforcement of current law.
TITLE X--AFRICA
Chapter 1--Development Fund for Africa
Sec. 1001. Development Fund for Africa.
Chapter 2--Other Assistance for Africa
Sec. 1021. African Development Foundation.
Sec. 1022. Support for the Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference.
Sec. 1023. Economic Support assistance for Sub-Saharan Africa.
Sec. 1024. Support for democratization in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Sec. 1025. African Center for Conflict Resolution.
Chapter 3--Provisions Relating to Specific Countries
Sec. 1041. Limited assistance for Angola.
Sec. 1042. Burundi.
Sec. 1043. Kenya.
Sec. 1044. Liberia.
Sec. 1045. Malawi.
Sec. 1046. Mozambique.
Sec. 1047. South Africa.
Sec. 1048. Zaire.
Chapter 4--Horn of Africa Recovery and Food Security
Sec. 1061. Findings.
Sec. 1062. Statement of policy regarding individual countries.
Sec. 1063. Horn of Africa relief and rehabilitation program.
Sec. 1064. Horn of Africa peace initiative.
Sec. 1065. Horn of Africa food security and recovery strategy.
Sec. 1066. Prohibitions on security assistance to Ethiopia, Somalia, and Sudan.
Sec. 1067. Certification.
Sec. 1068. Reporting requirement.
Chapter 5--Other Provisions
Sec. 1081. United States trade restrictions on products from Sub-Saharan
Africa.
Sec. 1082. Recognition of Sub-Saharan African support during the Persian
Gulf crisis.
Sec. 1083. Conditions on furnishing IMET for Sub-Saharan Africa.
Sec. 1084. Preemption of state and local sanction measures against Namibia.
Sec. 1085. Study on the impact of adjustment supported programs on the
development fund for Africa.
TITLE XI--AID, TRADE, AND COMPETITIVENESS
Sec. 1101. Short title.
Sec. 1102. Capital projects office within the Agency for International
Development.
Sec. 1103. Coordination.
Sec. 1104. Reports to Congress on capital projects.
Sec. 1105. Negotiations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.
Sec. 1106. Funding for capital projects.
Sec. 1107. Report on the feasibility of aid credit guarantees to finance
capital projects.
Sec. 1108. Definitions.
Sec. 1109. Authorization of additional funding for the Trade and Development
Agency for fiscal year 1993.
TITLE XII--PEACE CORPS
Sec. 1201. Authorizations of appropriations.
Sec. 1202. Peace Corps foreign currency fluctuations.
Sec. 1203. Evaluation of health-care services provided to Peace Corps
volunteers.
Sec. 1204. Reporting requirement on employment-related matters.
Sec. 1205. Peace Corps programs in the Soviet Union.
TITLE XIII--INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Chapter 1--International Monetary Fund
Sec. 1301. United States quota increase; amendments to articles of agreement;
approval of pledge to sell gold.
Sec. 1302. Soviet access to the financial resources of international financial
institutions.
Sec. 1303. Sense of the Congress relating to the problems of nations making
the transitions to more open political and economic systems.
Sec. 1304. Publication of reports on economies of major industrialized nations.
Sec. 1305. Sense of the Congress relating to coordination of development
activities of international financial institutions.
Sec. 1306. Cooperation with International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development in efforts to alleviate poverty and reduce barriers to economic
and social progress.
Sec. 1307. Debt and debt service reduction programs.
Sec. 1308. Environmental considerations in Fund programs.
Sec. 1309. Criteria for assessing defense expenditures.
Sec. 1310. Human rights.
Chapter 2--International Bank For Reconstruction and Development and Affiliates
Subchapter A--International Finance Corporation
Sec. 1311. Capital increase.
Subchapter B--International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Sec. 1321. Efforts to alleviate poverty and reduce barriers to economic and
social progress.
Sec. 1322. Debt and debt service reduction programs.
Sec. 1323. Technical assistance for the Baltic states and the Soviet Union.
Subchapter C--Financial Assistance for Global Environmental Protection
Sec. 1331. Short title.
Sec. 1332. Findings.
Sec. 1333. United States contribution.
Sec. 1334. Report on international debt exchanges and the environment.
Chapter 3--Asian Development Bank
Sec. 1341. United States subscription to special capital increase.
Chapter 4--African Development Fund
Sec. 1351. United States contribution.
Chapter 5--Export-Import Bank
Sec. 1361. Repeal of inadvertently inserted material.
Sec. 1362. Appointment and compensation of bank personnel.
Sec. 1363. Increase in membership of advisory committee.
Sec. 1364. Waiver of limitations on financing for exports to the Soviet Union.
Sec. 1365. Financing of high technology exports to emerging democracies.
Sec. 1366. Promotion of competitive opportunities for United States insurance
companies.
Sec. 1367. Report on demand for trade finance for the Baltic states, and
for the Soviet Union and its successor states.
Sec. 1368. Sense of the Congress that the President should grant waivers
for Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.
Sec. 1369. Effective date.
Chapter 6--Multilateral Development Banks
Subchapter A--Energy Efficiency
Sec. 1371. Short title.
Sec. 1372. Advancing the benefits of energy efficiency through multilateral
development banks.
Subchapter B--Alleviation of Poverty, Reduction of Barriers to Economic and
Social Progress, and Other Provisions
Sec. 1381. Efforts to alleviate poverty and reduce barriers to economic and
social progress.
Sec. 1382. United States policy regarding debt restructuring.
Sec. 1383. Participation of women in development activities.
Sec. 1384. Employment opportunities and comparable pay.
Sec. 1385. Directive relating to multilateral aid to the Horn of Africa.
Sec. 1386. Encouragement of fair labor practices.
Subchapter C--Financial Integrity
Sec. 1391. Financial integrity.
Chapter 7--Consolidation of Reports
Sec. 1399. Consolidation of certain reports.
TITLE XIV--MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 1401. Food as a human right.
Sec. 1402. Environmental security and foreign policy.
Sec. 1403. Reforming the United Nations response to international disasters.
Sec. 1404. Nuclear non-proliferation regimes in South Asia and other regions.
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF UNITED STATES FOREIGN POLICY.
 The Congress finds that peace and prosperity depend on the United States
 providing leadership in a world community increasingly receptive to democracy,
 open and competitive markets, and cooperation against aggression. The United
 States has assisted other countries to strengthen the capacity to develop
 their economies and human resources, improve security, and build responsible
 democratic institutions. The Congress recognizes that for over 40 years
 the threat of international communism weighed heavily on the programs and
 priorities of United States economic and security assistance.
 The economic prosperity and security of the people of the United States and of
 the world are best maintained and enhanced in an international community that
 respects individual civil and political rights and economic freedoms, provides
 for fundamental human needs, uses wisely the world's limited resources in a
 sustainable manner, and works toward the achievement of economic well-being
 for all people. Freedom can only be sustained by governments whose legitimacy
 rests firmly on the expressed consent of the governed; who are themselves
 agents and protectors of individual civil, political and economic rights;
 and who are committed to building the economic, political and social
 institutions which will improve the quality of the lives of all their people.
 Fostering economic, military, and other forms of international cooperation
 is vital to United States foreign policy. Likewise, addressing the
 manifestations of pervasive poverty through development assistance is
 essential to establishing the political, economic, and social environment
 necessary for sustained economic growth. Assistance under this Act should
 serve the following five mutually reinforcing goals:
 (1) Promoting and consolidating democratic values and institutions.
 (2) Promoting United States national security interests and securing peace.
 (3) Promoting economic growth through competitive markets with equitable
 distribution of benefits.
 (4) Promoting human resource development and meeting urgent humanitarian
 needs.
 (5) Promoting common approaches to transnational threats including
 environmental degradation, narcotics trafficking, and terrorism.
 Assistance under this Act should be coordinated with the other relevant
 international activities of the United States Government so as to achieve
 these goals.
 Because strong and effective multilateralism will improve the prospects
 for peace and prosperity regionally and globally, other countries able
 to contribute should be urged to join in undertaking to meet common goals
 and objectives.
TITLE I--ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE
SEC. 101. GENERAL POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES.
 Sections 101 and 102 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are amended to
 read as follows:
`SEC. 101. POLICIES CONCERNING ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) REASONS FOR ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE- The Congress finds and declares
 as follows:
 `(1) Fundamental and pervasive economic, political, and technological changes
 have resulted in the growing interdependence of countries and have created
 an increasing awareness in the United States and around the world of the
 need for all countries to participate in efforts to promote broad based,
 sustainable development.
 `(2) As a people endowed with a spirit of humanitarian generosity, United
 States citizens have long demonstrated a moral imperative to help those in
 need. Economic assistance authorized by this part reflects the traditional
 humanitarian ideals of the American people and a commitment--
 `(A) to assist in the alleviation of hunger, poverty, disease, disability,
 and ignorance in developing countries, and
 `(B) to help alleviate the suffering brought about by natural and manmade
 disasters.
 `(3) The efforts of developing countries to build and maintain the social,
 political, and economic institutions necessary to achieve self-sustaining
 growth and to provide opportunities to improve the quality of life for their
 people depend primarily upon successfully marshalling their own economic
 and human resources. The Congress recognizes that the magnitude of these
 efforts exceeds the resources of developing countries and therefore accepts
 that there will be a long-term need for wealthy countries to contribute
 additional resources for development purposes. The United States should
 take the lead in concert with other nations to mobilize such resources from
 public and private sources.
 `(b) NEED FOR COORDINATED APPLICATION OF RESOURCES- The Congress recognizes
 that successful achievement of the four basic objectives set forth in
 section 102 depends on the coordinated application of resources. Accordingly,
 the President should--
 `(1) develop and implement a coordinated international economic and
 development policy and program of action designed to make progress toward the
 achievement of those objectives, bringing to bear all relevant activities of
 the United States Government, including policies concerning international
 trade and debt, contributions to multilateral development banks, policies
 concerning international monetary issues, policies concerning the furnishing
 of foreign military financing assistance, and policies in such areas as
 agriculture, the environment, and health; and
 `(2) work with other donor countries and institutions to coordinate
 international development programs and policies.
`SEC. 102. BASIC OBJECTIVES OF ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS AND UNITED STATES
DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION POLICY.
 `(a) FOUR BASIC OBJECTIVES- The primary purpose of United States economic
 assistance is the promotion of broad based, sustainable, participatory
 development, with particular focus on the poor. In pursuit of that purpose,
 development assistance, assistance from the Development Fund for Africa, and
 other economic assistance programs to the extent specified in this Act, and
 United States economic cooperation policy generally, shall have the following
 four basic objectives, which are interrelated and mutually reinforcing:
 `(1) POVERTY ALLEVIATION- Alleviation of the worst manifestations of poverty
 through the development of human resource capacity.
 `(2) SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH- Promotion of broad based economic growth.
 `(3) SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT- Promotion of improved environmental,
 natural resource, and agricultural management to enable developing
 countries to achieve environmentally and economically sustainable patterns
 of development.
 `(4) DEMOCRACY- Promotion of democracy, respect for human rights, and
 political, social, and economic pluralism.
 `(b) POVERTY ALLEVIATION-
 `(1) RATIONALE- It is in the interest of the United States to assist
 developing countries to achieve patterns of growth and development that will
 measurably and sustainably alleviate the worst manifestations of poverty and
 allow all people, especially those with low incomes, to lead economically
 and socially productive lives. Further, peace and stability in the world
 cannot be achieved without economic development that also alleviates the
 worst manifestations of poverty.
 `(2) ELABORATION OF OBJECTIVE- (A) Broad based economic growth is necessary
 for the alleviation of the worst manifestations of poverty. Conversely,
 neither growth nor the alleviation of poverty can be sustained unless
 all people, especially the poor, have the basic assets and capabilities
 that foster the opportunity for participation in the economic, social,
 and political life of the country.
 `(B) To achieve the objective of alleviating the worst manifestations of
 poverty will entail, among other things--
 `(i) the expansion of education to all segments of the society;
 `(ii) improvement in coverage, quality, and sustainability of health services;
 `(iii) the systematic expansion of voluntary family planning services;
 `(iv) support for activities that enhance secure access of all to adequate
 food and nutrition derived from sustainable agricultural production,
 including the effectiveness and development contribution of food assistance
 made available under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act
 of 1954 and other food assistance programs; and
 `(v) support for activities that enhance universal access to safe drinking
 water, basic sanitation, and basic shelter necessary for health.
 `(c) SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH-
 `(1) RATIONALE- Broad based, sustainable economic growth is in the interest
 of the United States because it permits countries to progress toward economic
 self-reliance, to improve the living standards of their citizens, and to
 increase opportunities for international trade and investment. Market-oriented
 economic growth establishes the basis for sustainable development and
 reinforces democratic ideals and practices. Successful long-term development
 cannot occur without broad based, sustainable economic growth that enables
 the poor to increase their incomes and access to productive resources and
 services so that they can satisfy their basic needs and lead lives of decency,
 dignity, and hope.
 `(2) ELABORATION OF OBJECTIVE- Implementation of the objective of promoting
 broad based economic growth should recognize that economic, social, political,
 and environmental conditions vary among countries. While taking account of
 such differences, the economic assistance programs carried out in furtherance
 of the four basic objectives set forth in this section shall emphasize the
 following principles:
 `(A) Security of economic rights for all citizens without regard to sex,
 race, religion, language, or social status.
 `(B) Economic policies based on free market principles that increase the
 opportunity for all, especially the poor, to participate in economic activity.
 `(C) Economic reforms, such as deregulation, privatization, labor market
 reform, and reduction in barriers to the free flow of trade and investment,
 that benefit or are sensitive to and minimize adverse impact on the poor
 and on the environment.
 `(D) Government policies protecting economic rights, fair and open markets,
 and the fulfillment of basic human needs.
 `(E) Adherence by governments to international economic agreements,
 particularly those relating to free and fair trade practices and to respect
 for worker rights.
 `(d) SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT-
 `(1) RATIONALE- The economic and social well-being and the security of
 the United States and other countries are affected by how the world's
 environment and physical resource base are managed. Consumption patterns,
 systems of industrial and agricultural production, demographic trends,
 and the manner of use of natural resources all impact on the opportunities
 for long-term development and growth and survival for all countries. Both
 developed and developing countries share responsibility for the rational
 and sustainable management of natural resources.
 `(2) ELABORATION OF OBJECTIVE- Sustainable development is development that
 meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
 generations to meet their own needs. Economic assistance programs authorized
 by this part should assist countries to adopt policies and programs that
 promote ecologically sound patterns of growth and that assure that the burdens
 of improved resource management do not fall disproportionately on the poor.
 `(e) DEMOCRACY-
 `(1) RATIONALE- Democratic development, political pluralism, and respect
 for internationally recognized human rights are intrinsically linked to
 economic and social progress. Democracy can only be sustained in a society
 in which the legitimacy of the government rests firmly on the expressed
 consent of the governed; the rights of all citizens, including minorities,
 are respected and protected; and there is effective civilian control over the
 military and security forces. It is in the interest of the United States and
 in keeping with our democratic traditions to support democratic aspirations
 and values, foster the spread of democratic institutions, and encourage
 universal respect for civil and political liberties.
 `(2) ELABORATION OF OBJECTIVE- Furtherance of the basic objective of
 democracy requires that the United States promote--
 `(A) the ability of all citizens of a country to organize and associate
 freely and independently of the government;
 `(B) the ability of all citizens to choose freely their government, to hold
 that government accountable, and to participate in political life;
 `(C) increased respect for internationally recognized human rights and the
 rule of law;
 `(D) respect for the diversity among the citizens of a country;
 `(E) acceptance of and respect for civilian authority by all elements of
 society; and
 `(F) processes of accountability and transparency to eliminate corruption
 and abuses of power.
 `(f) CROSS-CUTTING ELEMENTS- The following key elements are applicable to
 the design and implementation of economic assistance programs to promote
 the four basic objectives set forth in subsection (a):
 `(1) PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION- Development is a process of change
 that requires the best possible information and judgment about the needs,
 capabilities, and aspirations of those most affected, either as participants
 in the delivery of assistance or as beneficiaries of assistance. For
 development to be broad based and sustainable, it is imperative to consult
 with, and fully engage in the policy and program planning process,
 governmental and nongovernmental organizations representative of and
 knowledgeable about local people and their interests. It is critical
 to involve beneficiaries in the assessment of the social, economic, and
 environmental impact of development projects and programs. Use of local
 nongovernmental organizations is an effective means to accomplish this
 objective.
 `(2) WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT- The expansion of women's economic opportunities
 is essential to alleviate poverty and to bring about effective broad based,
 sustainable development. Women must be an integral part of all aspects
 of any development program. The active involvement of women in economic,
 political, and social activities is necessary to promote democracy and to
 assure sustainable development. Women must participate in development as
 agents of change, not merely as recipients and beneficiaries of change. Women
 should, therefore, be integrally involved in policies, programs, and projects
 undertaken to achieve the objectives set forth in subsection (a).
 `(3) NONGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION IN DEVELOPMENT- (A) Nongovernmental
 organizations (including private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and
 credit unions) provide important mechanisms to increase the participation of
 rural and urban poor people in broad based sustainable development efforts
 and in the building of more pluralistic and open societies. The contributions
 of United States and indigenous nongovernmental organizations that represent
 and involve indigenous groups and communities should be fully utilized in
 meeting the four basic objectives set forth in subsection (a).
 `(B) Cooperatives, credit unions, and other United States and indigenous
 nongovernmental organizations provide an opportunity for people to participate
 directly in democratic decisionmaking for their economic and social benefit
 through ownership and control of business enterprises and through the
 mobilization of local capital and savings. Such organizations should be
 fully utilized in fostering free market principles and the adoption of
 self-help approaches to development.
 `(C) In implementing the policies expressed in this paragraph, specific
 mechanisms shall be developed for regular consultation with nongovernmental
 organizations in the formulation of development strategies for countries
 and sectors.
 `(D) Nongovernmental organizations participating in the furnishing of
 assistance under this part should have a grassroots base and receive a
 significant portion of their financial support from other than government
 sources.
 `(4) APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY- The United States can make a significant
 contribution to development through the application of its vast array of
 technology. The President should ensure that such technology is appropriate
 for the level of development and factors of production prevalent in a
 particular country. In promoting such appropriate technology, the President
 should focus particularly on the capabilities of the private sector.
 `(5) COLLABORATION- The capabilities of many developing countries have evolved
 sufficiently that their institutions can collaborate on an equal basis with
 institutions in developed countries. At the same time, transnational threats
 that endanger political, economic, social, and environmental well-being
 require collaborative efforts among developed and developing countries. United
 States economic assistance should increasingly be focused on efforts to
 strengthen institutions in developing countries so that they may become
 partners in international efforts to address transnational threats. United
 States collaborative programs should include association with institutions
 in advanced developing countries.
 `(6) UTILIZATION OF UNITED STATES INSTITUTIONAL CAPABILITIES- Programs and
 projects undertaken to achieve the basic objectives set forth in subsection
 (a) should recognize and take advantage of United States capabilities in
 science and technology and in access to education and training in United
 States colleges, universities, and technical training facilities. Long-term
 collaboration between public and private institutions of science, technology,
 and education in the United States and developing countries should be promoted
 and encouraged, with emphasis on increasing professional capabilities in
 developing countries for the provision of technical assistance in activities
 supported by the United States.
 `(7) HUMAN RIGHTS- United States economic assistance programs and policies,
 while encompassing due respect for differences in cultural values and
 national histories, should reflect the United States commitment, in keeping
 with its constitutional heritage and traditions and in accordance with
 its international obligations as set forth in the Charter of the United
 Nations, to promote and encourage increased respect for human rights and
 fundamental freedoms (as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human
 Rights) throughout the world without regard to sex, race, language, religion,
 or social status.
 `(g) EFFECTIVE USES OF ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) BENEFICIARY COUNTRIES- Assistance furnished under this part should
 be concentrated in countries that will make the most effective use of that
 assistance in promoting the four basic objectives set forth in subsection (a).
 `(2) ASSISTANCE WITHIN COUNTRIES- Activities should be undertaken in regions
 of recipient countries that offer potential for successful development
 and should not be undertaken if the relevant sector or national economic
 policies of the country are clearly unfavorable to the sustainability or
 broadest possible impact of the assisted program or project.
 `(3) TYPES OF ACTIVITIES- Assistance should focus on those types of activities
 that the United States can provide most effectively.'.
SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE.
 (a) AMOUNTS AUTHORIZED- Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961 is amended by inserting after section 102 the following:
`SEC. 102A. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC BASE-
 `(1) AMOUNTS AUTHORIZED- To carry out section 103 (relating to agriculture,
 rural development and nutrition) and section 106 (relating to private sector,
 environment, energy, and other development assistance), there are authorized
 to be appropriated to the President $614,000,000 for each of fiscal years
 1992 and 1993.
 `(2) TARGET FOR AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, AND NUTRITION- The
 administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering this
 part (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Administrator') should
 target at least $465,000,000 of the funds made available each fiscal year
 pursuant to paragraph (1) for use in carrying out section 103.
 `(b) SUSTAINABLE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT-
 `(1) POPULATION PLANNING- To carry out section 104(b) (relating to population
 planning), there are authorized to be appropriated $300,000,000 for each
 of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(2) OTHER HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS- To carry out section 104(c)
 (relating to health) and section 105 (relating to education and human
 resources development) including the assistance authorized by section 102B,
 there are authorized to be appropriated $466,000,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993.
 `(3) CHILD SURVIVAL ACTIVITIES- The Administrator should target at least
 $140,000,000 of the funds made available each fiscal year pursuant to
 paragraph (2) for use in carrying out section 104(c)(2).
 `(4) AIDS- The Administrator should target at least $65,000,000 of the
 funds made available each fiscal year pursuant to paragraph (2) for use in
 carrying out section 104(c)(4).
 `(c) ADDITIONALITY OF FUNDS- Amounts authorized to be appropriated by
 subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), and (b)(2) are in addition to any amounts
 otherwise authorized to be made available for the purposes specified in
 those subsections.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Chapter 1 of part I of that Act is amended--
 (1) in section 103(a)--
 (A) by striking out `(a)(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(a) AUTHORITY
 TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE- ';
 (B) by repealing paragraphs (2) and (3); and
 (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as paragraphs (1),
 (2), and (3), respectively;
 (2) by repealing section 103(g);
 (3) in section 104(c)(2), by striking out `(2)(A)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `(2) CHILD SURVIVAL ACTIVITIES- ' and by striking subparagraphs
 (B) and (C); and
 (4) in section 104, by repealing subsection (g); and
 (5) in section 105(a), by repealing the last sentence.
SEC. 103. ASSISTANCE FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES AND FOR DISPLACED
CHILDREN.
 Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 102A, as added by the preceding section of this Act,
 the following:
`SEC. 102B. ASSISTANCE FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES AND FOR DISPLACED
CHILDREN.
 `Funds authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year by section
 102A(b)(2) for human resources development under sections 104(c) and 105
 may be used for--
 `(1) assistance to meet the needs of individuals with disabilities,
 including technical and other assistance for scientific and technical
 exchange with governmental and private entities in foreign countries that
 provide rehabilitation-related assistance; and
 `(2) assistance to meet the needs of displaced children who have been
 abandoned or orphaned as a result of poverty or manmade or natural
 disasters.'.
SEC. 104. AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, AND NUTRITION.
 Section 103(b)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by striking
 out `and' following the last semicolon and by inserting before the period
 `; and strengthening and expanding marine fisheries and aquaculture programs'.
SEC. 105. POPULATION PLANNING.
 Section 104(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY- ' before the first sentence; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) REFERRAL- In order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing
 countries, funds allocated under this part for voluntary family planning
 projects shall be available only for projects which offer, either directly
 or through referral to or information about access to, a broad range of
 family planning methods and services. In using such funds to award grants
 for natural family planning, no applicant shall be discriminated against
 because of such applicant's religious or conscientious commitment to offer
 only natural family planning; and, additionally, all such applicants shall
 comply with the requirements of the first sentence of this paragraph.
 `(3) LIMITATION ON DIVERSION OF POPULATION FUNDS TO OTHER PURPOSES- In
 implementing requirements or authorities to provide assistance from funds
 appropriated to carry out this chapter or this part, the amount available
 to carry out this subsection pursuant to section 102A(b)(1) shall not be
 reduced by a greater proportion than--
 `(A) the amount made available pursuant to section 102A(a)(1) is reduced, or
 `(B) the amount made available pursuant to section 102A(b)(2) is reduced.
 `(4) UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND- (A) Up to $20,000,000 of the funds
 authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year to carry out this subsection
 shall be made available only for the United Nations Population Fund only
 for the provision of contraceptive commodities and related logistics,
 notwithstanding any other provision of law or policy.
 `(B) Amounts made available under this subsection for the United Nations
 Population Fund shall be maintained in a separate account, administered
 jointly by the Fund and the Permanent Representative of the United States
 to the United Nations General Assembly. The Fund shall be required to not
 commingle those funds with any other funds.
 `(C) Amounts made available under this subsection for the United Nations
 Population Fund shall only be disbursed to Fund projects subject to the
 approval of the Permanent Representative of the United States to the United
 Nations General Assembly.
 `(D) Amounts made available for the United Nations Population Fund under
 this subsection shall not be made available for programs in the People's
 Republic of China.
 `(E) The prohibitions contained in subsection (f) of this section (relating to
 prohibitions on funding for abortion as method of family planning, coercive
 abortion, and involuntary sterilization) apply to the funds made available
 pursuant to subparagraph (A). None of the funds made available to carry
 out this subsection may be obligated or expended pursuant to subparagraph
 (A) if the President certifies that the use of those funds by the United
 Nations Population Fund would violate any of those prohibitions.
 `(F) Any agreement entered into by the United States and the United
 Nations Population Fund to obligate funds pursuant to subparagraph (A)
 shall expressly state that the full amount granted by such agreement will
 be refunded to the United States if, during its five-year program which
 commenced in 1990, the United Nations Population Fund provides more than
 $57,000,000 for family planning programs in the People's Republic of China.
 `(5) ELIGIBILITY- In determining eligibility for assistance under this
 subsection, the President shall not subject nongovernmental and multilateral
 organizations to requirements more restrictive than requirements applicable
 to foreign governments for such assistance.'.
SEC. 106. HEALTH.
 Section 104(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
 `(4) AIDS- In carrying out this section and in order to address the
 international health threat posed by the Acquired Immune Deficiency
 Syndrome, the President is authorized to furnish assistance for
 assistance to prevent and control this disease, with special emphasis
 on community-based education programs focused on changing attitudes and
 behavior. In carrying out this paragraph, the agency primarily responsible
 for administering this part shall seek to ensure adequate coordination
 with other Federal agencies, international organizations, and private and
 voluntary organizations. Assistance activities pursuant to this paragraph
 should include support for appropriate activities which are carried out by
 international organizations and by private and voluntary organizations.'.
SEC. 107. PRIVATE SECTOR, ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY, AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE.
 Section 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 106. PRIVATE SECTOR, ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY, AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The President is authorized to furnish assistance
 for developing countries in accordance with this section.
 `(b) PRIVATE SECTOR- Assistance may be provided under this section to
 support the establishment of viable, competitive markets and the expansion
 of private enterprise, including cooperatives, in developing countries. Such
 assistance may include support for a country's efforts to reform policies,
 procedures, regulations, and laws affecting the role of the private sector
 in the economy, and for projects, particularly intermediary activity, to
 stimulate the growth of the indigenous private sector and development in
 both rural and urban areas.
 `(c) PRIVATE AND VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS AND COOPERATIVES- Private
 and voluntary organizations and cooperatives bring unique skills to
 bear on the development process. By virtue of their links with private
 institutions in developing countries, such organizations and cooperatives
 often serve effectively to engage rural and urban poor in their country's
 development. In order to foster the activities of private and voluntary
 organizations and cooperatives (as well as regional and international
 development organizations), assistance may be provided under this section
 for programs of technical cooperation and development in conjunction with
 those organizations.
 `(d) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT AND CONSERVATION ACTIVITIES-
 Assistance may be provided under this section in order to help developing
 countries support sustainable development and for environment and conservation
 activities, including activities that address global warming, tropical
 deforestation, and biological diversity.
 `(e) ENERGY- In order to help developing countries alleviate their energy
 problems, including the improvement of their ability to use indigenous energy
 resources to produce the energy needed by their economies, assistance may be
 provided under this section to enable such countries to prepare and undertake
 sustainable energy strategies based on `least-cost' integrated resource
 plans, to improve the efficiency of energy use and supply, and to develop
 energy generation capabilities reliant upon resources that are secure over
 the long-term and available in sufficient quantity to maintain stable pricing.
 `(f) SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT PROBLEMS AND RESEARCH NEEDS- Assistance may also
 be provided under this section to address special development problems and
 research needs. Such assistance may include--
 `(1) programs of research into, and evaluation of, the process of economic
 development in developing countries and areas, the factors affecting
 the relative success and costs of development activities, and the means,
 techniques, and such other aspects of development assistance in order to
 render such assistance of increasing value and benefit;
 `(2) programs of reconstruction following natural or manmade disasters and
 programs of disaster preparedness, prevention, and mitigation, including
 the prediction of, and contingency planning for, natural disasters abroad;
 `(3) programs of urban development; and
 `(4) other programs designed to help solve special development problems,
 including efforts to make possible proper utilization of infrastructure
 and related projects funded with earlier United States assistance.'.
SEC. 108. APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL.
 Section 107 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
 `(c) ELIGIBILITY OF APPROPRIATE TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL AS A PVO- Appropriate
 Technology International qualifies along with any cooperative development
 organization for development assistance funds made available for  United
 States private voluntary organizations.
 `(d) ADDITIONAL FUNDING- Of the funds made available for economic support
 assistance for fiscal year 1992, $2,000,000 should be provided to Appropriate
 Technology International to enable it to emphasize large-scale replication
 of successful projects and partnerships with major development and financial
 institutions.'.
SEC. 109. PRIVATE SECTOR GUARANTEE PROGRAM.
 Section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 108. PRIVATE SECTOR GUARANTEE PROGRAM.
 `(a) FINDINGS AND POLICY- The Congress finds and declares that--
 `(1) the development of private enterprise, including cooperatives, is a vital
 factor in the stable growth of developing countries and in the development
 and stability of a free, open, and equitable international economic system;
 `(2) it is, therefore, in the best interests of the United States to assist
 the development of the private sector in developing countries and to engage
 the United States private sector in that process; and
 `(3) the support of private enterprise is best served by programs providing
 credit, training, and technical assistance in coordination with policy
 reform efforts.
 `(b) ACTIVITIES THAT MAY BE SUPPORTED- Assistance under this section may be
 provided in developing countries only to support financially viable private
 sector activities that are consistent with the four basic objectives set
 forth in section 102 and that meet one or both of the following criteria:
 `(1) SMALL BUSINESS AND CAPITAL MARKETS- The activity addresses capital
 and credit market imperfections and assists financial institutions in
 meeting the financial needs of the private sector. Such activity shall be
 primarily directed toward making available to small business enterprises
 and cooperatives necessary credit, training, and support services that are
 not otherwise available to them.
 `(2) UNITED STATES BUSINESS- The activity engages the United States private
 sector in projects to meet the needs of developing countries.
 `(c) AUTHORITY-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- To carry out the policy set forth in subsection (a) and
 the activities authorized in subsection (b), the President is authorized
 to issue guarantees assuring against losses incurred in connection with
 loans for activities that meet the requirements of subsection (b).
 `(2) FULL FAITH AND CREDIT- All guarantees issued under this section shall
 constitute obligations, in accordance with the terms of such guarantees, of
 the United States of America, and the full faith and credit of the United
 States of America is hereby pledged for the full payment and performance
 of such obligations.
 `(3) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- Unless the President determines otherwise,
 the following shall apply:
 `(A) The aggregate amount of all guarantees that are provided under this
 section for a project may not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the
 project, or $6,000,000, whichever amount is less.
 `(B) The term of any such guarantee may not exceed 10 years.
 `(C) As a condition to receiving a guarantee or guarantees for loans to small
 business enterprises and cooperatives authorized under subsection (b)(1)--
 `(i) the lender shall agree to reduce its collateral requirements for loans
 so guaranteed, to the maximum extent possible;
 `(ii) loans so guaranteed shall be to new borrowers or, if to an existing
 customer of the lender, shall be additional credit and may not be solely
 a renewal or extension of an existing loan;
 `(iii) the maximum amount of any such guaranteed loan may not exceed
 $325,000 for a recipient that is a sole proprietor, or, if the recipient
 is an enterprise other than a sole proprietor, $325,000 for each coowner,
 shareholder, partner, cooperative member, or other owner of the enterprise;
 and
 `(iv) the agency primarily responsible for administering this part shall
 work with participating lenders to develop training and technical assistance
 programs in cash flow analysis and lending to encourage such lenders to
 reduce, to the maximum extent practicable, their collateral requirements
 for loans guaranteed under this subparagraph.
The limitation set forth in clause (iii) shall apply for at least 85 percent
of all individual beneficiaries of loans guaranteed under this section.
 `(D) The President shall maintain an information system that contains
 operating financial data relating to loans guaranteed under this section
 (and any subloans made from such loans), and the projects for which the
 loans were made, that describes all beneficiaries of each such project,
 and that tracks the developmental impact of each such project, including the
 effect on employment, the gender of the loan recipients, and loan collateral
 practices. In addition, the President shall provide to the Congress, by
 January 31 of each year (beginning in 1993), a report that describes in
 detail each project for which loans guaranteed under this section are made,
 and includes the information referred to in the preceding sentence with
 respect to such project.
 `(E) Not more than 20 percent of the total amount of funds loaned and
 contingent liabilities incurred under this section may support projects in
 any one country.
 `(F) In determining whether an enterprise is a small business enterprise,
 the President shall take into account the relevant definition used by the
 host country government, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
 Development, and other international organizations.
 `(4) ENFORCEABILITY- Any guarantee issued under this section shall be
 conclusive evidence that such guarantee has been properly obtained, and that
 the underlying obligation as contracted qualifies for such guarantee. Except
 for fraud and material misrepresentation for which the parties seeking
 payment under such guarantee are responsible, such guarantee shall be
 presumed to be valid, legal, and enforceable.
 `(5) DENOMINATION OF LIABILITY- The losses guaranteed under this subsection
 may be in dollars or other currencies. In the case of losses guaranteed in
 currencies other than dollars, the guarantees issued shall be subject to
 an overall payment limitation expressed in dollars.
 `(6) DISCHARGE OF LIABILITIES- Any payments made to discharge liabilities
 under guarantees issued under this section shall be paid--
 `(A) first, out of fees as provided in paragraph (8); and
 `(B) then, out of funds made available pursuant to subsection (d).
 `(7) PILOT PROGRAM FOR LIMITED DIRECT LOANS- On a limited basis, the President
 is authorized to make direct loans, and charge interest therefor, to support
 activities authorized in subsection (b), under the following conditions:
 `(A) The amount of any individual direct loan for a project may not exceed
 50 percent of the total cost of the project or $3,000,000, whichever amount
 is less.
 `(B) The aggregate amount of all such direct loans issued in any fiscal
 year may not exceed $10,000,000.
 `(C) The term of any such loan shall not exceed 10 years.
 `(D) Notification and opportunity for consultation shall be provided, at
 least 30 days in advance of the obligation of any funds for such direct
 loans in any fiscal year, to the appropriate congressional committees. Any
 such committee may waive such notification and opportunity for consultation
 with respect to that committee.
 `(8) FEES-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- A fee shall be charged for each guarantee and loan issued
 under this section in an amount to be determined by the President.
 `(B) FINANCING ACCOUNT- All fees collected under this paragraph in connection
 with direct loans obligated and guarantee commitments made after September
 30, 1991, together with earnings on those fees collected with respect to such
 guarantees and income on claims receivable with respect to such guarantees,
 shall be deposited in financing accounts established under section 505 of
 the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990.
 `(C) USE OF FEES- Amounts collected in the financing accounts established
 under subparagraph (B) shall be used to offset the cost of guarantees and
 loans issued under this section.
 `(d) APPROPRIATIONS REQUIREMENT- Direct loan obligations may be entered
 into under this section, and guarantee commitments may be issued under this
 section, only to the extent that the budget authority for the resulting
 additional cost (within the meaning of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990)
 has been provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
 `(e) PROGRAM CEILING- The level of activity under this section may not
 exceed--
 `(1) $10,000,000 in loans in each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993; and
 `(2) $57,000,000 in contingent liability for guarantees in fiscal year 1992
 and $75,000,000 in contingent liability for guarantees in fiscal year 1993.
 `(f) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- There are
 authorized to be appropriated to the President for each of fiscal years 1992
 and 1993, $1,500,000 for administrative expenses to carry out this section.
 `(g) GUARANTEES AND LOANS UNDER FORMER AUTHORITY- Guarantees committed
 or outstanding under this section on or before September 30, 1991, loans
 obligated under this section on or before such date, the fees collected in
 connection with such guarantees and loans, and income on claims receivable
 with respect to such guarantees, shall continue to be subject to provisions
 of this Act originally applicable to those guarantees and the Federal Credit
 Reform Act of 1990.'.
SEC. 110. COST SHARING.
 Section 110 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 110. COST SHARING.
 `To ensure local commitment to, and the sustainability of development
 activities assisted under this chapter and chapter 10, the beneficiary
 country should bear an appropriate share of the costs of the entire program or
 project with respect to which the assistance is to be furnished. A country
 may bear such costs on an `in kind' basis.'.
SEC. 111. WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) STEPS TO ENSURE WOMEN'S PARTICIPATION IN DEVELOPMENT- Section 113 of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by striking out the section
 designation and section heading and subsection (a) and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following:
`SEC. 113. WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN- In recognition of the essentiality that women's
 participation is to the success and sustainability of development projects and
 achievement of the objectives of this chapter, the administrator of the agency
 primarily responsible for administering this part shall seek to ensure that--
 `(1) activities carried out under this chapter incorporate, wherever feasible,
 the active participation of local women and local women's organizations
 (including their involvement in the planning, design, implementation,
 and evaluation of such activities);
 `(2) sex-disaggregated data is--
 `(A) included in country development strategy statements for major sectors
 in which assistance is to be provided; and
 `(B) included in project papers and program assistance approval documents;
 `(3) programs, projects, and activities, where appropriate, are designed
 so that the percentage of women who benefit from such assistance exceeds
 the approximate traditional level of participation of women in the sector
 for which assistance is being provided;
 `(4) country development strategy statements identify, for each major
 assistance sector--
 `(A) the obstacles to increasing the level of participation of women beyond
 the traditional level of participation;
 `(B) the steps being taken to remove or overcome such obstacles;
 `(C) to the extent that steps are not being taken to remove or overcome
 such obstacles, why such steps are not being taken; and
 `(D) the extent to which women are being integrated into the development
 process generally; and
 `(5) project and program assistance evaluations include an assessment of
 the extent to which women are participating in such activity and, where
 appropriate, the impact of such activity on enhancing the self-reliance of
 women and improving their incomes.'.
 (b) MATCHING FUNDS FOR AID MISSIONS- Section 113(b)(1) of that Act is
 amended by adding at the end the following: `Up to $6,000,000 of the funds
 used each fiscal year pursuant to this subsection shall be made available
 as matching funds to support those activities of the missions of the agency
 primarily responsible for administering this part that demonstrate potential
 for integrating women into the programs of those missions.'.
 (c) REPORTS- Section 113(c) of that Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) Not later than March 1, 1993, and every second year thereafter, the
 administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering this
 part shall report to the Congress on--
 `(1) the specific steps taken as of the time of the report in implementing
 each paragraph of subsection (a);
 `(2) the additional steps to be taken to implement each such paragraph; and
 `(3) the use of funds pursuant to  subsection (b).'.
SEC. 112. ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES.
 Section 117 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to the environment
 and natural resources), as so redesignated by the Special Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1986, is amended in subsection (c)(1)--
 (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as subparagraphs (B) and
 (C), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting before those subparagraphs the following new subparagraph
 (A):
 `(A) to prepare and take fully into account an initial environmental
 examination of every program or project to determine whether it significantly
 affects the environment;'.
SEC. 113. PRIVATE VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS.
 (a) FUNDING TARGETS- Section 123(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `of the fiscal years 1986 through 1989' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `fiscal year';
 (2) by striking out `thirteen and one-half' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eighteen';
 (3) by striking out `121, and 491' and inserting in lieu thereof `491,
 and 496'; and
 (4) by striking out `sixteen' and inserting in lieu thereof `twenty-five'.
 (b) DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION PROGRAMS-
 (1) POLICY- Section 123 of that Act is amended by adding at the end the
 following:
 `(i) DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION PROGRAMS- The administrator of the agency primarily
 responsible for administering this part is authorized to support fully and
 encourage development education programs. Private and voluntary organizations
 and cooperatives can play an important and catalytic role in development
 education to inform, motivate, and involve United States citizens in programs
 about developing countries or in the development process. Such programs--
 `(1) increase the understanding of Americans about the importance of the
 developing world;
 `(2) transfer factual information on global, social, economic, and political
 structures and problems; and
 `(3) foster understanding of development as a process that involves all
 nations.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 316 of the International Security and
 Development Cooperation Act of 1980 is repealed.
SEC. 114. EVALUATION.
 Section 125 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 125. EVALUATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
 `(a) NEED FOR EVALUATION- In order to manage effectively and responsibly
 the resources with which it is provided, the agency primarily responsible
 for administering this part must have a capacity to evaluate objectively
 the extent of its progress in achieving development results and to derive
 lessons from its development experience.
 `(b) ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN- In furtherance of subsection (a), the Administrator
 shall establish a program performance evaluation capacity with the following
 functions:
 `(1) To develop a program performance information system to afford agency
 managers a means for monitoring achievement of impact and interim performance
 of the agency's major programs.
 `(2) To prepare and disseminate objective and periodic reports on the
 agency's progress in meeting stated development objectives for major
 assistance categories and recipient countries, regions, sectors, and policies.
 `(3) To strengthen, through training and other means, the use of evaluation
 as a management tool, by both the agency and its counterparts in countries
 receiving assistance, in the planning, designing, and implementation of
 foreign assistance projects and programs.
 `(4) To coordinate with the Inspector General of the agency so as to ensure
 appropriate complementarity of efforts, recognizing that--
 `(A) it is the responsibility of the agency to direct a program of independent
 evaluation of its programs and policies, and the operational and management
 systems that affect the development impact of those programs and policies; and
 `(B) it is the responsibility of the Inspector General to conduct regular and
 comprehensive assessments and audit of financial management and administrative
 systems, including the adequacy of the systems for monitoring and evaluating
 agency projects and programs.
 `(c) ROLE OF EVALUATION- In recognition of the importance of evaluation in
 determining, among other things, the extent to which programs are promoting
 the basic objectives set forth in section 102, the Administrator shall take
 such steps as the Administrator deems appropriate to ensure that the agency
 primarily responsible for administering this part is--
 `(1) planning, implementing, and disseminating programmatic evaluations of
 the economic assistance programs under this part that are administered by
 the agency;
 `(2) designing and managing technical assistance and support programs to
 enhance the integrity and quality of all project and program evaluation
 work done by such agency;
 `(3) maintaining and making accessible the agency's data base on project
 and program experience, including both the historical record and measures
 of impact and performance;
 `(4) coordinating information exchange on evaluation priorities, findings,
 and methods with other donor countries and organizations; and
 `(5) ensuring the quality, objectivity, and independence of the evaluation by
 such measures as external review of findings, use of outside governmental and
 nongovernmental expertise, and other measures to protect against potential
 conflict of interest.
 `(d) ACCOUNTABILITY- The President shall prepare an annual report, which shall
 be submitted to the Congress as a separate part of the annual congressional
 presentation documents required by section 634. This report shall include
 the following:
 `(1) An assessment of progress toward the achievement of the four basic
 objectives set forth in section 102, based on the findings of evaluation
 studies conducted by the agency primarily responsible for administering
 this part and on such other empirical analyses as may be appropriate.
 `(2) An analysis, on a country-by-country basis (with each country receiving
 economic assistance under this part being included at least once every 5
 years), of the impact on economic development in each country during the
 preceding 3 to 5 fiscal years of United States economic assistance programs,
 with a discussion of the United States interests that were served by the
 assistance. For each such country, the analysis shall--
 `(A) to the extent possible, be done on a sector-by-sector basis and identify
 trends within each sector;
 `(B) identify economic policy reforms conducive to sustainable economic
 growth (in particular, reforms along market economic principles) that were
 promoted by the assistance;
 `(C) describe, in quantified terms to the extent practicable, the specific
 objectives the United States sought to achieve in providing economic
 assistance and specify the extent to which those objectives were not achieved;
 `(D) describe the amount and nature of economic assistance provided by
 other major donors during the preceding 3 to 5 fiscal years, set forth by
 the development sector to the extent possible;
 `(E) discuss the commitment of the host government to addressing the country's
 needs in each development sector, including, to the extent possible, a
 description of the resources devoted by that government to each development
 sector during the preceding 3 to 5 fiscal years; and
 `(F) describe the progress being made by such country in adopting economic
 policies that foster and enhance the freedom and opportunity of individuals
 to participate in and promote economic growth in that country, as described
 in section 102(c) as a basic objective of economic assistance.
The analyses pursuant to paragraph (2)(F) shall include the development of a
series of factors that provide a common standard by which such progress can
be evaluated and compared between countries and within countries over time.'.
SEC. 115. AMERICAN SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS ABROAD.
 Section 214(c)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 striking out all that follows `President' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 116. HOUSING AND OTHER CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAMS.
 (a) AUTHORITY FOR HOUSING GUARANTEE PROGRAM-
 (1) AUTHORIZATION- Section 222(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `$2,558,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$3,400,000,000'; and
 (B) by striking out `1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `1993'.
 (2) ACTIVITIES FOR WHICH GUARANTEES ISSUED- Section 222(b) of such Act
 is amended--
 (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking out `shall emphasize'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `shall be directed to the shelter and urban
 services needs of the poor, including--';
 (B) in paragraph (4) by striking out `and' after the semicolon;
 (C) in paragraph (5) by striking out `the shelter occupied by poor.' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `urban services; and'; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following:
 `(6) other urban services of particular importance to the needs of the poor.'.
 (3) REPEAL OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS- Section 222 of that Act is amended by
 repealing subsections (c) and (k).
 (b) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROGRAM- Section 222A of that Act is repealed.
 (c) GENERAL PROVISIONS- Section 223 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 223. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 `(a) FEES- A fee shall be charged for each guarantee issued under section
 222 in an amount to be determined by the President. All fees collected in
 connection with guarantee commitments made under section 222 after September
 30, 1991, shall be available to offset the cost of guarantee obligations
 under this section.
 `(b) INTEREST RATE ON GUARANTEED INVESTMENTS- In the case of any loan
 investment guaranteed under section 222, the President shall prescribe the
 maximum rate of interest allowable to the eligible investor.  The maximum
 allowable rate of interest under this subsection shall be prescribed by the
 President as of the date the project covered by the investment is officially
 authorized and, prior to the execution of the contract, the President may
 amend such rate at his discretion, consistent with the provisions of this
 subsection.
 `(c) LIMITATION ON GUARANTEES FOR EACH COUNTRY- The face value of guarantees
 issued under section 222 in any fiscal year with respect to any country
 may not exceed $50,000,000.
 `(d) CEILING ON AVERAGE FACE VALUE- The average face value of guarantees
 issued under section 222 in any fiscal year may not exceed $25,000,000.
 `(e) MAINTENANCE OF PROGRAM LEVEL- The principal amount of guarantees
 issued under section 222 for each fiscal year shall be comparable to the
 total principal amount of such guarantees issued for fiscal year 1984,
 subject to dollar limitations on the issuance of guarantees under this
 section which are contained in section 222(a) and subject to subsection (f).
 `(f) APPROPRIATIONS ACT REQUIRED- New credit authority provided for in
 section 222 may be exercised only to such extent or in such amount as is
 provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
 `(g) CERTAIN LOSSES NOT COVERED BY GUARANTEES- No payment may be made under
 any guarantee issued under section 222 (or under the former guarantee
 authority of section 222A or predecessor guarantee authorities) for any
 loss arising out of fraud or misrepresentation for which the party seeking
 payment is responsible.
 `(h) FINANCING ACCOUNT- All fees collected under this section in connection
 with guarantee commitments made after September 30, 1991, together with
 earnings on those fees and income on claims receivable with respect to such
 commitments, shall be deposited in a financing account established under
 section 505 of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990. Amounts collected in
 the financing account may be used for the purposes specified in the last
 sentence of subsection (a).
 `(i) DISCHARGE OF LIABILITIES- Any payments made to discharge liabilities
 under guarantees issued under section 222 shall be paid--
 `(1) first, out of fees referred to in subsection (a); and
 `(2) then, out of funds made available pursuant to subsection (k).
 `(j) FULL FAITH AND CREDIT- All guarantees issued under section 222 (or
 under the former guarantee authority of section 222A or under predecessor
 guarantee authorities) shall constitute obligations, in accordance with
 the terms of such guarantees, of the United States of America and the full
 faith and credit of the United States of America is hereby pledged for the
 full payment and performance of such obligations.
 `(k) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
 `(1) FOR GUARANTEE OBLIGATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated to the
 President not more than $15,900,000 for fiscal year 1992 and not more than
 $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 to pay the cost of guarantee obligations
 under section 222 with a face value of $125,000,000 for each such fiscal year.
 `(2) FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the President not more than $8,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992
 and 1993 for administrative expenses necessary to carry out section 222.
 `(l) GUARANTEES UNDER FORMER AUTHORITY- Guarantees committed or outstanding
 under section 222 on or before September 30, 1991, or under the guarantee
 authority formerly contained in section 222A, the fees collected in connection
 with such guarantees, and income on claims receivable with respect to such
 guarantees, shall continue to be subject to provisions of this Act originally
 applicable to those guarantees and the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990.
 `(m) ISRAEL PROGRAMS- The authority of section 222 may be exercised to
 issue guarantees in connection with loans made for the purpose of providing
 housing and infrastructure in Israel for Soviet refugees, except that such
 guarantees shall not be subject to the second sentence of section 222(a)
 (relating to total principal amount of guarantees), or to subsection (c)
 or (d) of this section, and subsection (k) shall not apply with respect to
 guarantees issued under this subsection.'.
SEC. 117. OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION.
 Title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is
 amended as follows:
 (1) Section 234(c) is amended by striking the third paragraph.
 (2) Section 234(d) is amended by striking `except that--' and all that
 follows through the end of paragraph (2) and inserting the following: `,
 except that the Corporation shall not finance any survey to ascertain the
 existence, location, extent, or quality of oil or gas resources.'.
 (3) Section 234(g) is amended--
 (A) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3) through (6)
 as paragraphs (2) through (5), respectively; and
 (B) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by striking `$10,000,000 from
 its income and revenues' and inserting the following: `$35,000,000 (less
 amounts transferred to the fund before the date of the enactment of the
 International Cooperation Act of 1991) from its noncredit account revolving
 fund. The Corporation shall transfer to the fund in each fiscal year all
 amounts received by the Corporation during the preceding fiscal year as
 income on securities acquired under this subsection, and from the proceeds
 on the disposition of such securities. Purchases of, investments in, and
 other acquisitions of equity from the fund are authorized for any fiscal
 year only to the extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in
 appropriations Acts.'.
 (4) Section 235(a) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (2) by striking `$1,500,000,000' and inserting
 `$2,500,000,000';
 (B) by striking paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) and inserting the following:
 `(3) Notwithstanding section 504(b) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990
 but subject to spending authority provided in advance in appropriations
 Acts, the Corporation is authorized to transfer up to $1,500,000 from its
 noncredit account revolving fund to pay for the estimated subsidy cost
 of a program level for the loan guarantee program under section 234(b)
 of $375,000,000 for fiscal year 1992. Such funds are authorized to remain
 available in fiscal year 1993.'; and
 (C) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (4).
 (5) Section 235(b) is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) DIRECT LOAN PROGRAM- Notwithstanding section 504(b) of the Federal
 Credit Reform Act of 1990 but subject to spending authority provided in
 advance in appropriations Acts, the Corporation is authorized to transfer
 up to $4,800,000 from its noncredit account revolving fund to pay for
 the estimated subsidy cost of a program level for its direct loan program
 under section 234(c) of $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1992. Such amounts are
 authorized to remain available for fiscal year 1993.'.
 (6) Section 235(c) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) INSURANCE RESERVE-
 `(1) MAINTENANCE AND PURPOSES- The Corporation shall maintain an insurance
 reserve. Such reserve shall be available for the discharge of liabilities,
 as provided in subsection (d), until such time as all such liabilities have
 been discharged or have expired or until such reserve has been expended in
 accordance with the provisions of this section.
 `(2) FUNDING- The insurance reserve shall consist of--
 `(A) any funds in the insurance reserve of the Corporation on the date of
 the enactment of the International Cooperation Act of 1991,
 `(B) amounts transferred to the reserve pursuant to this title, and
 `(C) such sums as are appropriated pursuant to subsection (f) for such
 purposes.'.
 (7) Section 235(d) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting
 the following: `Any payments made to discharge liabilities under guarantees
 issued under section 234(b), or under similar predecessor guaranty authority,
 shall be paid in accordance with the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990.'.
 (8) Section 235(f) is amended in the first sentence--
 (A) by striking `and guaranty fund' and inserting `reserve'; and
 (B) by striking `, reinsurance, or guaranties' and inserting `or reinsurance'.
 (9) Section 235 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(g) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- Subject to spending authority provided in
 advance in appropriations Acts, the Corporation is authorized to transfer
 up to $12,000,000 from its noncredit account revolving fund for the
 administrative costs of its direct loan and loan guarantee programs for
 fiscal year 1992. Such funds are authorized to remain available in fiscal
 year 1993.'.
 (10) Section 236 is amended--
 (A) by striking `whatever source derived' and inserting `its noncredit
 activities';
 (B) by redesignating subsections (a), (b), and (c) as paragraphs (1),
 (2), and (3), respectively;
 (C) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking `or guaranty reserves,
 the Direct Investment Fund established pursuant to section 235,' and inserting
 `reserve'; and
 (D) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by striking `subsections (a) and
 (b) thereof' and inserting `paragraphs (1) and (2)'.
 (11) Section 237(d) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d) FEES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Fees may be charged for providing insurance, reinsurance,
 guarantees, financing, and other services under this title in amounts to
 be determined by the Corporation.
 `(2) CREDIT TRANSACTION COSTS- Project-specific transaction costs incurred
 by the Corporation relating to loan obligations or loan guarantee commitments
 covered by the provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, including
 the costs of project-related travel and expenses for legal representation
 provided by persons outside the Corporation and other similar expenses
 which are charged to the borrower, shall be paid out of the appropriate
 financing account established under section 505(b) of such Act.
 `(3) NONCREDIT TRANSACTION COSTS- Fees paid for the project-specific
 transaction costs and other direct costs associated with services provided to
 specific investors or potential investors pursuant to section 234 (other than
 those covered in paragraph (2)), including financing, insurance, reinsurance,
 missions, seminars, conferences, and other preinvestment services, shall
 be available for obligation for the purposes for which they were collected,
 notwithstanding any other provision of law.'.
 (12) Section 238 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (c) by striking `and' at the end;
 (B) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
 (C) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
 `(d) the term `noncredit account revolving fund' means the account in which
 funds under section 236 and all funds from noncredit activities are held;
 `(e) the term `noncredit activities' means all activities of the Corporation
 other than its loan guarantee program under section 234(b) and its direct
 loan program under section 234(c); and'.
 (13) By inserting after section 240A the following new section:
`SEC. 240B. PROHIBITION ON NONCOMPETITIVE AWARDING OF INSURANCE CONTRACTS
ON OPIC SUPPORTED EXPORTS.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT FOR CERTIFICATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (3), the investor on whose
 behalf insurance, reinsurance, guaranties, or other financing is provided
 under this title with respect to a project shall be required to certify
 to the Corporation that any contract for the export of goods as part of
 that project will include a clause requiring that United States insurance
 companies have a fair and open competitive opportunity to provide insurance
 against risk of loss of such export.
 `(2) WHEN CERTIFICATION MUST BE MADE- The investor shall be required, in
 every practicable case, to so certify before the insurance, reinsurance,
 guarantee, or other financing is provided. In any case in which such a
 certification is not made in advance, the investor shall include in the
 certification the reasons for the failure to make a certification in advance.
 `(3) EXCEPTION- Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to an investor
 who does not, because of the nature of the investment, have a controlling
 interest in fact in the project in question.
 `(b) REPORTS BY THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE- The United States
 Trade Representative shall review the actions of the Corporation under
 subsection (a) and, after consultation with representatives of United States
 insurance companies, shall report to the Congress in the report required
 by section 181(b) of the Trade Act of 1974 with respect to such actions.
 `(c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 `(1) the term `United States insurance company' includes--
 `(A) an individual, partnership, corporation, holding company, or other
 legal entity which is authorized, or in the case of a holding company,
 subsidiaries of which are authorized, by a State to engage in the business of
 issuing insurance contracts or reinsuring the risk underwritten by insurance
 companies; and
 `(B) foreign operations, branches, agencies, subsidiaries, affiliates,
 or joint ventures of any entity described in subparagraph (A); and
 `(2) United States insurance companies shall be considered to have had a
 `fair and open competitive opportunity to provide insurance' if they--
 `(A) have received notice of the opportunity to provide insurance; and
 `(B) have been evaluated on a nondiscriminatory basis.'.
SEC. 118. MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT.
 Chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 adding after title V the following:
`TITLE VI--MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
`SEC. 251. MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) PURPOSES- The purposes of this section are--
 `(1) to provide for the continuation and expansion of the commitment of
 the agency primarily responsible for administering this part (hereinafter
 in this section referred to as the `Agency') to microenterprise development;
 `(2) to increase the amount of assistance going to credit activities designed
 to reach the poorest sector in developing countries; and
 `(3) to increase the percentage of such credit that goes to women
 beneficiaries.
 `(b) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The President, acting through the administrator of the
 Agency (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `Administrator'), is
 authorized to provide assistance for programs of credit and other assistance
 for microenterprises in developing countries. In addition to providing
 financial resources for direct credit activities of indigenous financial
 intermediaries, assistance under this section may include assistance for
 institutional development of such intermediaries (including assistance
 to enable private and voluntary organizations to develop the capability
 to serve as financial intermediaries), technical assistance, training,
 and policy reform. Microenterprise credit and related activities assisted
 under this section shall be carried out primarily through those indigenous
 financial intermediaries and private voluntary organizations that are
 oriented toward working directly with the poor and women.
 `(c) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES- The mission of the
 Agency that is responsible for a country receiving assistance under this
 section shall establish criteria for determining the financial intermediaries
 that will receive assistance under this section, taking into account the
 following:
 `(1) The extent to which the recipients of credit from the intermediary
 lack collateral.
 `(2) The extent to which the recipients of credit from the intermediary do
 not have access to the local formal financial sector.
 `(3) The extent to which the recipients of credit from the intermediary
 have relatively limited amounts of fixed assets.
 `(4) The extent to which the recipients of credit from the intermediary
 are among the poorest people in the country.
 `(5) The extent to which interest rates charged by the intermediary on
 loans reflect the real cost of lending.
 `(6) The extent to which the intermediary reaches women as recipients
 of credit.
 `(7) The extent to which the intermediary is oriented toward working directly
 with the poor and women.
 `(d) LOWER TIER FOR POVERTY LENDING ACTIVITIES- A significant portion
 of the amount made available each fiscal year to carry out this section
 shall be used to support direct credit assistance by, and the institutional
 development of, those financial intermediaries with a primary emphasis on
 assisting those people living in absolute poverty, especially women.
 `(e) FOCUS ON WOMEN- The Office of Small and Microenterprise Development
 in the Agency shall include in its annual action plans a strategy for
 increasing the access of women in developing countries to credit and other
 microenterprise development activities, with the goal of increasing to
 at least 50 percent the percentage of microenterprise credit that goes to
 women beneficiaries. This strategy shall be developed in consultation with
 the Agency's Women in Development Office.
 `(f) FUNDINGS SOURCES- Funds to carry out this section shall be derived
 from the following sources:
 `(1) Funds available for development assistance.
 `(2) Funds available for assistance from the Development Fund for Africa.
 `(3) Funds available for economic support assistance.
 `(4) Local currency proceeds resulting from the provision of development
 assistance, assistance from the Development Fund for Africa, or economic
 support assistance.
 `(5) Local currency proceeds available for use under section 306(a) of the
 Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (as amended by
 section 1512 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990).
 `(6) Local currency proceeds resulting from assistance provided under the
 Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 as in effect
 immediately before the effective date of the amendment made by section 1512
 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990.
 `(7) Local currency generated under subsection (g).
 `(g) AUTHORITY TO GENERATE LOCAL CURRENCIES- In order to generate local
 currencies for use in providing assistance under this section, the President
 is authorized to use funds made available for development assistance,
 economic support assistance, or assistance from the Development Fund for
 Africa to provide assistance to the governments of developing countries on
 a loan basis repayable in local currencies, at a rate of exchange to be
 negotiated by the President and the foreign government. Such loans shall
 have a rate of interest and a repayment period determined by the President.
 `(h) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN LAWS- Local currencies used under subsection
 (f)(7) shall not be subject to the requirements of section 1306 of title 31,
 United States Code, or other laws governing the use of foreign currencies
 owned by, owed to, or accruing to the United States.
 `(i) FUNDING FOR FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Administrator should use at least $85,000,000 for each
 of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for microenterprise assistance pursuant to
 this section.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE FOR THE POOREST SECTORS-
 `(A) FUNDING LEVEL- Of the amounts used pursuant to paragraph (1), at least
 $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and at least $30,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993 should be used to support loans having a purchasing power equal to or
 less than $300 (in United States dollars).
 `(B) INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT- In addition to amounts made available for
 direct credit activities involving loans described in subparagraph (A),
 amounts used for institutional development of a financial intermediary
 described in subsection (d) shall be considered to support such loans for
 purposes of that subparagraph to the same extent as the aggregate amount
 loaned by such institution represents loans described in that subparagraph.
 `(3) USE OF LOCAL CURRENCIES- In carrying out this subsection, local
 currencies described in subsection (f) may be used in lieu of an equivalent
 amount of dollars.
 `(j) MONITORING- The Administrator shall develop a monitoring system
 to track the performance of the microenterprise development activities
 of the Agency, including their effectiveness in reaching the poor and
 women. In developing this system, the Administrator shall consult with
 the appropriate congressional committees and with appropriate private and
 voluntary organizations.
 `(k) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- The Administrator shall report to the Congress
 annually on the microenterprise development activities of the Agency,
 including the agency's strategy for complying with subsections (i)(1) and
 (2).'.
SEC. 119. ASSISTANCE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRATIC INITIATIVES.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE- Title IX of chapter 2 of part I of the
 Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows:
`TITLE IX--HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY
`SEC. 281. ASSISTANCE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRATIC INITIATIVES.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION AND GENERAL PURPOSES OF ASSISTANCE- The President may use
 funds made available for development assistance, economic support assistance,
 or assistance from the Development Fund for Africa to furnish assistance to
 support the programs and activities described in subsection (b) in order to--
 `(1) promote increased adherence to internationally recognized human rights,
 as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and
 `(2) improve the performance of institutions of democracy.
 `(b) PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES THAT MAY BE SUPPORTED- Funds made available
 under this section shall be available to support only the following:
 `(1) Programs and activities to enhance the independence and effectiveness of
 institutions of democratic governance, including support for administrative,
 judicial, electoral, and legislative processes.
 `(2) Programs and activities--
 `(A) to encourage the growth of independent associations by strengthening
 professional, civic, trade union, business, community, and other organizations
 that contribute to the promotion of democracy, and
 `(B) to enhance the organizational and leadership skills of the members of
 such organizations in order to increase effective citizen participation in
 democratic processes.
 `(3) Programs and activities to increase awareness of internationally
 recognized human rights (including by increasing the availability of
 information concerning the status of respect for internationally recognized
 human rights) and improve the effective exercise of those rights.
 `(4) Programs and activities--
 `(A) to support victims of abuses of internationally recognized human
 rights, including (i) the direct provision of legal services, and (ii)
 the provision of rehabilitation services for victims of torture; and
 `(B) to support organizations and institutions seeking to bring to justice
 those responsible for perpetrating such abuses.
 `(5) Programs and activities to support a free and independent media.
 `(6) Programs and activities to strengthen respect for the rule of law,
 including by--
 `(A) providing specialized professional training, scholarships, and exchanges
 for continuing legal education;
 `(B) promoting the role of the bar in judicial selection, enforcement of
 ethical standards, and legal reform;
 `(C) increasing the availability of legal materials and publications; and
 `(D) supporting the revision and modernization of legal codes and procedures.
 `(c) ELIGIBLE RECIPIENTS OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance under this section may be
 furnished to countries and organizations, both public and nongovernmental,
 including local, national, regional, and international organizations. A
 substantial portion of the funds made available each fiscal year to carry
 out this section shall be used for assistance provided to nongovernmental
 organizations.
 `(d) PROHIBITION RELATING TO ELECTIONS- Assistance under this section may
 not be used to influence the outcome of any election in any country.
 `(e) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- At least 15 days before obligating funds
 under this section, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional
 committees in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming
 notifications under section 634A.
 `(f) LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR AFRICA- Funds made available for
 assistance under the Development Fund for Africa may be used to carry out
 this section only with respect to countries in sub-Saharan Africa.'.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees
 a detailed report describing the programs and activities designed to
 promote democracy in foreign countries that are funded by the Department
 of State, the Agency for International Development, or the United States
 Information Agency, including funding for programs and activities of the
 National Endowment for Democracy. Such report shall include the budget
 allocations for democracy programs for fiscal year 1992 and any specific
 recommendations of the President for ways to improve coordination and
 delineate responsibilities among the various agencies.
SEC. 120. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS.
 (a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 302(a) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) There are authorized to be
 appropriated to the President to carry out the purposes of this chapter,
 in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, the following
 amounts for the following purposes:
 `(1) For the United Nations Development Program, $125,000,000 for each of
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(2) For the United Nations Children's Fund, $85,000,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993.
 `(3) For the United Nations Environment Program, $19,000,000 for each of
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(4) For the Organization of American States, $11,500,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993, of which $600,000 for fiscal year 1993 should be used
 for an additional contribution for the purpose of establishing an electronic
 network for the exchange of information on science and technology among
 professors, researchers, and scientists at universities in the countries
 that are members of the Organization of American States.
 `(5) For the Special Program for Africa of the International Fund for
 Agricultural Development, $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(6) For the United Nations Development Fund for Women, $1,000,000 for each
 of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(7) For the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission, $1,000,000 for
 each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(8) For the United Nations University Endowment Fund, $1,000,000 without
 fiscal year limitation.
 `(9) For grants to international organizations, and to programs administered
 by such organizations, other than the organizations or programs referred
 to in the preceding paragraphs of this subsection, $62,910,000 for each of
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
 (b) INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT- Section 301 of that
 Act is amended by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
 `(b) INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT- The President may
 continue United States participation in and may make contributions to the
 International Fund for Agricultural Development.'.
 (c) AUDITING OF ACCOUNTS OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS- Section 301(e)
 of that Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(e) AUDITING OF ACCOUNTS OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS-
 `(1) UNITED NATIONS ORGANIZATIONS- In the case of the United Nations and its
 affiliated organizations, including the International Atomic Energy Agency,
 the President should (acting through the United States representatives to
 such organizations), propose and actively seek the establishment by the
 governing authorities of such organizations of external, professionally
 qualified groups of appropriate size for the purpose of providing an
 independent and continuous program of selective examinations, review,
 evaluation, and audits of the programs and activities of such organizations.
 `(2) MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- In the case of each of the organizations specified
 in subparagraph (B), the President should, acting through the United
 States representative to such organization, propose and actively seek
 the establishment by the governing authorities of that organization of
 professionally qualified groups of appropriate size for the purpose of
 providing an independent and continuous program of selective examination,
 review, evaluation, and audits of the programs and activities of that
 organization.
 `(B) MDBS SUBJECT TO SUBPARAGRAPH (A)- The organizations to which subparagraph
 (A) applies are the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the
 International Development Association, the International Finance Corporation,
 the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the Inter-American Development
 Bank, the Inter-American Investment Corporation, the African Development
 Bank, the African Development Fund, the Asian Development Fund, the Asian
 Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.'.
 (d) REPORTS ON VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS BY
 ALL UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AGENCIES- Section 306(b) of that Act is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking out the first three sentences and
 inserting in lieu thereof the following: `Not later than January 31 each
 year, the President shall submit a report to the Congress listing all
 voluntary contributions by the United States Government to international
 organizations during the preceding fiscal year.'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking out `promptly' and by inserting `on a
 quarterly basis' after `Budget'.
 (e) WITHHOLDING OF UNITED STATES PROPORTIONATE SHARE FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS
 OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS- Section 307 of that Act is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 307. WITHHOLDING OF UNITED STATES PROPORTIONATE SHARE FOR CERTAIN
PROGRAMS OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT TO WITHHOLD- Funds authorized to be appropriated by this
 chapter shall not be available for the United States proportionate share
 for programs for countries or organizations or for projects described in
 subsection (d). This prohibition applies notwithstanding any provision of
 law that earmarks funds under this chapter for a particular international
 organization or program.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS WITHHELD- Funds returned or not made available for programs
 or projects pursuant to subsection (a) shall remain available until expended
 for use under this chapter.
 `(c) OBLIGATIONS- The President--
 `(1) shall review, at least annually, the budgets and accounts of all
 international organizations receiving payments of any funds authorized to
 be appropriated by this chapter; and
 `(2) shall report to the appropriate congressional committees the amounts of
 funds expended by each such organization for programs or projects described
 in subsection (d) and the amount contributed by the United States to each
 such organization.
 `(d) DESIGNATION OF PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS- Subsection (a) applies with
 respect to programs for Cuba, Iran, Libya, or the Palestine Liberation
 Organization and to projects whose purpose is to provide benefits to the
 Palestine Liberation Organization or entities associated with it.'.
 (f) PARTICIPATION BY ISRAEL IN THE UNITED NATIONS- Chapter 3 of part I of
 that Act is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 308. PARTICIPATION BY ISRAEL IN THE UNITED NATIONS.
 `If Israel is illegally expelled, suspended, denied its credentials, or in any
 other manner denied its right to participate in any principal or subsidiary
 organ or in any specialized, technical, or other agency of the United Nations,
 the United States shall suspend its contributions under this chapter to such
 organ or agency until the illegal action or denial of rights is reversed.'.
SEC. 121. DEBT FOR DEVELOPMENT.
 Chapter 7 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to
 read as follows:
`CHAPTER 7--DEBT FOR DEVELOPMENT
`SEC. 471. DEBT EXCHANGE.
 `(a) AUTHORITY- In order to promote the four basic objectives set forth
 in section 102, the President may use funds made available for development
 assistance, economic support assistance, or assistance from the Development
 Fund for Africa for grants to and contracts with nongovernmental organizations
 to enable those organizations to--
 `(1) purchase debt obligations owed by a developing country to any commercial
 lending institution or other private party; and
 `(2) cancel such debt obligation, subject to the approval of the President,
 to the extent that such country makes available assets or policy commitments
 to promote the four basic objectives set forth in section 102.
 `(b) INTEREST RETENTION- A grantee or contractor (or any subgrantee or
 subcontractor) of the grants or contracts referred to in subsection (a) may
 retain, notwithstanding any other provision of law, without deposit in the
 Treasury of the United States and without further appropriation by Congress,
 interest earned on the proceeds of any resulting debt-for-development or
 debt-for-environment purchase or exchange pending the disbursement of such
 proceeds and interest for the purposes for which assistance was provided
 to such party, which may include the establishment of an endowment, the
 income of which is used for such purposes.'.
SEC. 122. INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE.
 (a) DISASTER PREVENTION AND MITIGATION- Section 491(b) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting `prevention, and mitigation'
 after `preparedness,'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- The first sentence of section 492(a)
 of that Act is amended to read as follows: `There are authorized to be
 appropriated to the President to carry out section 491, $70,000,000 for
 each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
 (c) BORROWING AUTHORITY- Section 492(b) of that Act is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(b) BORROWING AUTHORITY-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- In addition to amounts otherwise available to carry out
 this chapter, up to $70,000,000 in any fiscal year may be obligated against
 appropriations described in paragraph (2) for use in providing assistance
 in accordance with the authorities and general policies of this chapter.
 `(2) SOURCES OF FUNDS- The appropriations referred to in paragraph (1)
 are any appropriations to carry out this Act, without regard to whether
 the funds are earmarked in this or any other Act. In any fiscal year, the
 sum of the amount obligated under paragraph (1) against appropriations
 for development assistance and the amount obligated under paragraph (1)
 against appropriations for assistance from the Development Fund for Africa
 may not exceed $30,000,000.
 `(3) REIMBURSEMENT- Amounts subsequently appropriated to carry out this
 chapter with respect to a disaster may be used to reimburse any appropriation
 account against which obligations were incurred under paragraph (1) with
 respect to that disaster.'.
SEC. 123. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
ASSISTANCE.
 Section 532 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 532. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry out the
 purposes of this chapter, the following amounts for the following purposes:
 `(1) For Israel, $1,200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and
 1993. Provisions relating to the terms of such assistance are contained in
 section 601 of the International Cooperation Act of 1991.
 `(2) For Egypt, $815,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and
 1993. Provisions relating to the terms of such assistance are contained in
 section 602 of the International Cooperation Act of 1991.
 `(3) For Turkey, $190,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(4) For United States contributions to the International Fund for Ireland
 pursuant to the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986, $22,500,000 for
 each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(5) For Cyprus for a scholarship program, bicommunal projects, and measures
 aimed at the reunification of the island and designed to reduce tensions
 and to promote peace and cooperation between the two communities on Cyprus,
 $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(6) For Nepal, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(7) For the South Pacific Regional Program, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993, of which $2,000,000 for each fiscal year is authorized
 be appropriated for scholarships for study at postsecondary institutions of
 education in the United States. The amounts authorized to be appropriated
 by this paragraph are in addition to the amounts made available under
 paragraph (9) of this section for the South Pacific Regional Program under
 the Fisheries Treaty Program.
 `(8) To finance, and (where appropriate) for United States participation in,
 regional cooperative programs in the Middle East in accordance with section
 202(c) of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985,
 $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(9) To carry out the purposes of this chapter for recipients or purposes
 other than the countries and purposes specified in the preceding paragraphs
 of this subsection, $966,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 .'.
SEC. 124. PURCHASE OF UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES.
 Chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) by repealing existing section 533; and
 (2) by inserting after section 532 the following new section 533:
`SEC. 533. PURCHASE OF UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES.
 `(a) GENERAL POLICY REGARDING FORMS OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance under this
 chapter should be provided principally through commodity import programs,
 project assistance, sector programs, or the provision of United States
 goods and services. The purpose of this section is to encourage foreign
 governments that receive cash transfer assistance under this chapter to
 agree to purchase United States goods and services with the funds made
 available by that assistance or with equivalent amounts of funds.
 `(b) AGREEMENTS TO PURCHASE UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES- Subsection
 (c) shall not apply to any foreign government that, prior to October 1,
 1992, enters into an agreement with the United States in which that foreign
 government agrees to spend no less than the amounts specified in subsection
 (c)(2) to purchase United States goods and services with respect to each
 fiscal year for which that government receives cash transfer assistance under
 this chapter. A government shall be exempted pursuant to this subsection
 only so long as that government continuously maintains such an agreement.
 `(c) REQUIREMENT TO PURCHASE UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Effective fiscal year 1993, assistance under this chapter
 may be provided to a foreign government as a cash transfer only pursuant to
 an agreement requiring that such government spend not less than the amount
 specified in paragraph (2) to purchase United States goods and services.
 `(2) MINIMUM AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE SPENT- The minimum amount that a
 foreign government receiving cash transfer assistance under this chapter
 for a fiscal year is required to spend to purchase United States goods and
 services is the amount that is not less than 75 percent of the amount of the
 cash transfer assistance provided to that government for that fiscal year,
 except that in order to achieve an orderly and efficient implementation of
 the requirement of paragraph (1), the minimum amount shall be the following
 for the following fiscal years:
 `(A) For fiscal year 1993, 15 percent.
 `(B) For fiscal year 1994, 35 percent.
 `(C) For fiscal year 1995, 55 percent
 `(D) For fiscal year 1996 and each fiscal year thereafter, 75 percent.
 `(3) EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION- The President should ensure that purchases of
 United States goods pursuant to agreements under this subsection, and the
 ports of departure for those goods, are distributed equitably throughout
 the United States.
 `(4) GAO AUDITS- Each agreement pursuant to which cash transfer assistance
 is provided under this subsection shall include provisions to ensure that
 representatives of the Comptroller General have the access to records
 and personnel necessary to carry out such monitoring and auditing as the
 Comptroller General deems appropriate.
 `(d) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS PURSUANT TO SUBSECTION (B) or (C)-
 Nothing in subsection (b) or (c), or in any agreement described in either
 such subsection, shall prevent a recipient government from purchasing, with
 cash transfer assistance under this chapter, goods or services produced in
 that country. United States goods purchased pursuant to an agreement under
 subsection (b) or (c) shall be deemed to have been furnished in connection
 with funds advanced by the United States. The United States goods purchased
 pursuant to an agreement under subsection (b) or (c) shall be United States
 goods that are available in the United States at fair prices for such goods.
 `(e) EXEMPTED GOVERNMENTS- In addition to any government exempted by
 subsection (b), this section shall not apply to the following:
 `(1) Any government that receives cash transfer assistance under this
 chapter of less than $25,000,000 for a fiscal year.
 `(2) Any government--
 `(A) that, as of April 1, 1989, was receiving cash transfer assistance under
 this chapter and had an agreement with the United States under which that
 government agreed--
 `(i) to spend an amount equal to the amount of the cash transfer on the
 purchase of United States goods and services,
 `(ii) to carry 50 percent of all bulk shipments of United States grain on
 `privately owned United States-flag commercial vessels', to the extent such
 vessels are available at fair and reasonable rates for such vessels, and
 `(iii) to purchase United States grain at levels comparable to those
 purchased in prior years; and
 `(B) that, within 30 days after the date of enactment of the International
 Cooperation Act of 1991, agrees to comply thereafter, or to cause private
 entities to comply thereafter, with the requirements described in clauses
 (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (A) with respect to any fiscal year
 in which it receives cash transfer assistance under this chapter, except
 that a government shall cease to be exempted by this paragraph if, at any
 time after so agreeing, it ceases to agree to comply, or to cause private
 entities to comply, with those requirements.
 `(f) WAIVER- The President may waive the provisions of this section with
 respect to a foreign government to the extent the President determines that
 it is important to the national interest to do so. Any such waiver shall
 be reported to the appropriate congressional committees.
 `(g) DEFINITION OF UNITED STATES GOODS- For purposes of this section,
 the term `United States goods' means goods (including components) and
 commodities (including agricultural commodities) grown, processed, produced,
 or manufactured in the United States.'.
SEC. 125. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended
 to read as follows:
`SEC. 661. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
 `(a) PURPOSE- The Trade and Development Agency shall be an agency of
 the United States under the foreign policy guidance of the Secretary of
 State. The purpose of the Trade and Development Agency is to promote United
 States private sector participation in development projects in developing
 and middle-income countries, in order to promote the four basic objectives
 set forth in section 102 of this Act.
 `(b) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- The Director of the Trade and Development Agency is authorized
 to work with foreign countries, including those in which the United States
 development programs have been concluded or those not receiving assistance
 under part I, to carry out the purpose of this section by providing funds
 for feasibility studies, engineering design, and other activities related
 to development projects which provide opportunities for the use of United
 States exports.
 `(2) USE OF FUNDS- Funds under this section may be used to provide support
 for feasibility studies for the planning, development, and management of,
 and procurement for, bilateral and multilateral development projects,
 including training activities undertaken in connection with a project,
 for the purpose of promoting the use of United States goods and services
 in such projects. Funds under this section may also be used for engineering
 design, including--
 `(A) concept design, which establishes the basic technical and operational
 criteria for a project, such as architectural drawings for a proposed
 facility, evaluation of site constraints, procurement requirements, and
 equipment specifications; and
 `(B) detail design, which sets forth specific dimensions and criteria
 for structural, mechanical, electrical, and architectural operations,
 and identifies other resources required for project operations.
 `(3) INFORMATION DISSEMINATION- (A) The Trade and Development Agency shall
 disseminate information about its project activities to the private sector.
 `(B) Other Federal departments and agencies shall cooperate with the Trade
 and Development Agency in order for the Agency to provide more effectively
 informational services to persons in the private sector concerning trade
 development and export promotion related to development projects.
 `(4) NONAPPLICABILITY OF OTHER PROVISIONS- Any funds used for purposes of
 this section may be used notwithstanding any other provision of law.
 `(c) DIRECTOR AND PERSONNEL-
 `(1) DIRECTOR- There shall be at the head of the Trade and Development
 Agency a Director who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the
 advice and consent of the Senate.
 `(2) OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES- (A) The Director may appoint such officers
 and employees of the Trade and Development Agency as the Director considers
 appropriate.
 `(B) The officers and employees appointed under this paragraph shall have
 such functions as the Director may determine.
 `(C) Of the officers and employees appointed under this paragraph, 2 may be
 appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
 governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be compensated
 without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 or subchapter III of chapter
 53 of such title.
 `(D) Under such regulations as the President may prescribe, any individual
 appointed under subparagraph (C) may be entitled, upon removal (except for
 cause) from the position to which the appointment was made, to reinstatement
 to the position occupied by that individual at the time of appointment or
 to a position of comparable grade and pay.
 `(d) ANNUAL REPORT- The President shall, not later than December 31 of
 each year, submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate
 a report on the activities of the Trade and Development Agency in the
 preceding fiscal year.
 `(e) INSPECTOR GENERAL-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- The Inspector General of the agency primarily responsible
 for administering part I--
 `(A) shall have full and independent authority to conduct audits,
 investigations, and inspections of all phases of the program and operations
 of the Trade and Development Agency for the purpose of promoting economy,
 efficiency, and effectiveness, and detecting and preventing fraud and
 abuse; and
 `(B) shall conduct all security activities of the Trade and Development
 Agency relating to personnel and the control of classified material.
 `(2) RELATION TO DIRECTOR OF TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY- The Inspector
 General shall report to and be under the general supervision of the
 Director of the Trade and Development Agency with respect to activities
 undertaken pursuant to this section, except that the Director shall not
 prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from initiating, carrying out,
 or completing any such activity in accordance with the duties, authorities,
 and responsibilities contained in the Inspector General Act of 1978, and
 any other applicable laws and regulations.
 `(3) INSPECTOR GENERAL ACT- For purposes of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
 the Trade and Development Agency shall be considered to be a Federal entity
 and the Director of the Trade and Development Agency shall be considered
 to be the head of the Federal entity.
 `(4) SEMIANNUAL REPORT- The semiannual report required under section 5 of
 the Inspector General Act of 1978 shall include information relating to
 activities of the Inspector General undertaken pursuant to this section.
 `(f) FUNDING- There are authorized to be appropriated for purposes of
 this section, in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes,
 $55,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
 (b) RENAMING OF TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM; CONFORMING CHANGES-
 (1) RENAMING OF TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM- The Trade and Development
 Program shall, on or after the effective date of this section, be known as
 the Trade and Development Agency.
 (2) APPOINTMENT OF PRESENT DIRECTOR NOT AFFECTED- The enactment of this Act
 shall not affect the appointment of the individual who is the Director of
 the Trade and Development Program on the effective date of this section.
 (3) TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1983- Sections 644, 645, and
 646 of the Trade and Development Enhancement Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 635q,
 635r, and 635s) are each amended by striking `Trade and Development Program'
 each place it appears and inserting `Trade and Development Agency'.
 (4) TITLE 5- Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by
 striking out
`Director, Trade and Development Program.'
and inserting in lieu thereof
`Director, Trade and Development Agency.'.
 (5) REFERENCE IN OTHER LAWS- Any reference in any law to the Trade and
 Development Program shall be deemed to be a reference to the Trade and
 Development Agency.
SEC. 126. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR OPERATING EXPENSES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 667 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `(a)' and by repealing subsection (b); and
 (2) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(1) $483,300,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for necessary
 operating expenses of the agency primarily responsible for administering
 part I of this Act; and'.
 (b) OPERATING EXPENSES, OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL- That Act is amended
 by inserting after section 667 the following:
`SEC. 668. OPERATING EXPENSES, OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to the President, in addition to
 funds otherwise available for such purposes--
 `(1) $37,739,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for necessary
 operating expenses of the Office of the Inspector General of the agency
 primarily responsible for administering part I of this Act; and
 `(2) such amounts as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay,
 retirement, and other employee benefits authorized by law, and for other
 nondiscretionary costs of such office.'.
SEC. 127. COOPERATION WITH NONGOVERNMENTAL SECTOR.
 (a) Establishment of Centers and Advisory Committees- Part III of the
 Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding at the end the following:
`CHAPTER 4--COOPERATION WITH NONGOVERNMENTAL SECTOR
`SEC. 681. CENTER FOR UNIVERSITY COOPERATION IN DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) United States public and private institutions of higher education can
 contribute significantly to enhancing the development of developing countries;
 `(2) sustained participation of United States institutions of higher
 education in the economic development programs of these countries and the
 building of indigenous university systems that support the educational,
 research, and service needs of their societies is vital to their achieving
 sustainable economic growth and open democratic political systems; and
 `(3) at the same time, the participation of United States institutions of
 higher education in these international development efforts also supports
 the internationalization of those institutions by strengthening their
 faculty and the programs available to their students, and enhancing the
 quality and relevance of their research and extension efforts.
 `(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF A CENTER- The President shall maintain a Center for
 University Cooperation in Development (hereinafter in this section referred
 to as the `Center') within the agency primarily responsible for administering
 part I. The Center shall seek to promote and strengthen mutually beneficial
 development cooperation and partnerships between such agency, United States
 institutions of higher education that are engaged in education, research,
 and public service programs relevant to the development needs of developing
 countries, and institutions of higher education, research, and extension
 in those developing countries. The Center shall--
 `(1) develop basic policies, procedures, and criteria for education,
 research, and development programs involving United States institutions of
 higher education and developing country institutions;
 `(2) encourage and support the development of collaborative programs that
 strengthen the capacity of United States institutions of higher education to
 undertake sustainable, long-term partnerships with institutions in developing
 countries and that also deepen the commitment of United States institutions
 of higher education to internationalization and development cooperation;
 `(3) encourage and support the development of cooperative programs between
 United States institutions of higher education and the private sector that
 contribute to the sustainable development of developing countries;
 `(4) undertake specialized programs that seek to bring the unique capabilities
 of historically black colleges and universities to bear on the development
 problems of developing countries and strengthen their capacity to enter
 into sustainable partnerships with institutions in developing countries;
 `(5) facilitate access by developing countries and the agency primarily
 responsible for administering part I to the resources of United States
 institutions of higher education and the participation of these institutions
 in the development programs of developing countries; and
 `(6) undertake studies and analyses and specialized reviews necessary to
 the accomplishment of paragraphs (1) through (5).
`SEC. 682. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON UNIVERSITY COOPERATION IN DEVELOPMENT.
 `The administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering part
 I shall establish a permanent Advisory Committee on University Cooperation
 in Development, whose membership shall consist primarily of individuals
 who are from institutions of higher education eligible to participate in
 programs under part I and who have expertise and administrative experience in
 education, research, and public service relevant to the development needs
 of developing countries. The function of the Advisory Committee shall be
 to advise the administrator regarding programs that the agency primarily
 responsible for administering part I carries out with or through institutions
 of higher education.
`SEC. 683. CENTER FOR VOLUNTARY COOPERATION IN DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The President shall maintain a Center for Voluntary
 Cooperation in Development (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
 `Center') within the agency primarily responsible for administering part I.
 `(b) PURPOSE- The purpose of the Center shall be to strengthen the partnership
 for development among the United States Government and United States private
 voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions that are engaged in
 activities that are relevant to the development needs of developing countries
 and to the attainment of the four basic objectives set forth in section 102.
 `(c) FUNCTIONS- The Center shall--
 `(1) participate in the development of policies, procedures, and criteria
 for all programs of the agency primarily responsible for administering part I
 that involve private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions;
 `(2) under the general policy guidance of the administrator of that agency,
 develop program policies, procedures, and funding criteria for support
 by the agency primarily responsible for administering part I of worldwide
 activities of such entities; and
 `(3) administer comprehensive grant programs in support of long-term,
 worldwide programs of such entities.
`SEC. 684. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON VOLUNTARY COOPERATION IN DEVELOPMENT.
 `The administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering part
 I shall establish a permanent Advisory Committee on Voluntary Cooperation
 in Development, whose membership shall consist primarily of representatives
 from private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions that
 have experience working in developing countries. The function of the Advisory
 Committee shall be to advise the administrator regarding programs that the
 agency primarily responsible for administering part I carries out with or
 through private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Title XII of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 is repealed.
SEC. 128. POLICY AND REPORT ON FURTHER MANAGEMENT REFORM.
 (a) POLICY- Section 621A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended
 to read as follows:
`SEC. 621A. FURTHER MANAGEMENT REFORM.
 `It is the sense of the Congress that the President should continue to
 make efforts to improve the management of United States economic assistance
 programs, including--
 `(1) efforts to streamline the project development process and shorten the
 time from project conception to implementation, including streamlining the
 application process for private and voluntary organizations;
 `(2) efforts to increase decentralization of field missions;
 `(3) efforts to reduce the number of projects and to increase the duration,
 and to increase the sustainability, of projects which are funded;
 `(4) efforts to decrease recurring costs;
 `(5) efforts to expand overseas tours for personnel and streamline mid-level
 management;
 `(6) efforts to streamline the contract process, including streamlining
 the application process for businesses and others seeking funding under
 contracts with the agency primarily responsible for administering part I;
 `(7) consistent with section 640B of this Act, efforts to improve coordination
 of the United States economic assistance effort, including review of existing
 interagency coordinating practices; and
 `(8) efforts to examine the need for and importance of multidonor
 coordination, including in field missions.'.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a
 report on--
 (1) the feasibility and impact on United States foreign policy and foreign
 assistance objectives of reducing the number of countries receiving economic
 assistance; and
 (2) ways to improve coordination within the United States Government and
 with other donors and to improve management of United States economic
 assistance programs, including--
 (A) the feasibility of eliminating the Agency for International Development
 and incorporating its functions into the Department of State,
 (B) the feasibility of establishing the Agency for International Development
 as an independent agency, and
 (C) the feasibility of reorganizing the Agency for International Development
 to function as a foundation that funds but does not carry out programs.
TITLE II--MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES AND RELATED PROGRAMS
CHAPTER 1--MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND RELATED PROGRAMS
SEC. 201. STATEMENT OF POLICY AND OBJECTIVES.
 (a) REVISION- Section 501 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended
 to read as follows:
`SEC. 501. MILITARY ASSISTANCE POLICIES.
 `(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- United States policy must foster a climate in
 which all nations can live in peace, security, and stability. It is in the
 interest of the United States to address those threats to such a climate
 that arise through the persistence of regional conflicts, the threat of
 aggression fostered by military imbalances among neighboring nations, the
 proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the continued proliferation
 of conventional weapons of increasing capability, or the persistent attempts
 by armed groups violently to overthrow democratically elected governments.
 `The United States is prepared to consider requests for assistance by
 foreign countries lacking the resources to meet their legitimate national
 security needs. Together with other assistance provided under this Act,
 military assistance should contribute to the development of economic and
 social improvements that enhance the development and maintenance of democratic
 political systems. Military assistance provided to friendly foreign countries
 should serve as a necessary transition to achieve self-sufficiency.
 `Military assistance should foster cooperative security arrangements
 and support multilateral efforts through the United Nations and other
 international organizations to promote peaceful settlements of disputes.
 `The President should continue to seek, through negotiations with other
 principal countries supplying or receiving defense articles and defense
 services, the establishment of effective multilateral controls on the
 transfer of defense articles and defense services, including controls on the
 furnishing of assistance for the procurement of such articles and services.
 `(b) OBJECTIVES OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE- The authorities to furnish military
 assistance that are provided in this part shall be exercised (subject to
 the supervision and direction of the Secretary of State pursuant to section
 622(c)) solely to achieve the following objectives:
 `(1) Exerting maximum efforts to achieve international arms control and
 reduction.
 `(2) Promoting the establishment of a relationship between civilian and
 military sectors appropriate to a democratic system of government.
 `(3) Enhancing the military capability of foreign countries to meet their
 legitimate security needs, and permitting the recipient countries to
 participate in regional or collective arrangements or measures consistent
 with the Charter of, or requested by, the United Nations.
 `(4) Providing support to foreign countries to meet transnational threats,
 in particular to combat the flow of illicit narcotics and to combat
 international terrorism.
 `(5) Meeting urgent humanitarian needs by improving the capability of the
 armed forces of foreign countries to respond to natural and manmade disasters.
 `(6) Increasing the awareness of nationals of friendly countries of basic
 issues involving democratic values and institutions, especially respect
 for internationally recognized human rights.
 `(7) Promoting self-defense and defense cooperation by assisting friendly
 countries to acquire United States defense articles and services.
 `(8) Promoting the effectiveness and professionalism of military forces of
 friendly foreign countries.
 `(9) Promoting rationalization, standardization, and interoperability of
 the military forces of friendly foreign countries with the Armed Forces of
 the United States.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 502 of that Act is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 502. UTILIZATION OF DEFENSE ARTICLES AND DEFENSE SERVICES BY RECIPIENT
COUNTRIES.
 `Defense articles and defense services may be furnished to a foreign country
 under chapter 2 of this part for use solely for the following purposes:
 `(1) Legitimate self-defense.
 `(2) Participation in regional or collective arrangements or measures
 consistent with the Charter of the United Nations, or participation in
 collective measures requested by the United Nations for the purpose of
 maintaining or restoring international peace and security.
 `(3) Internal security.
 `(4) Responding to natural and manmade disasters in order to meet urgent
 humanitarian needs.
 `(5) Such other purposes as may be explicitly provided for in particular
 provisions of law.'.
SEC. 202. FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING ASSISTANCE.
 (a) AUTHORITY TO FURNISH ASSISTANCE- Section 503(a) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) in the text preceding paragraph (1), by inserting `grant' after `furnish';
 (2) by inserting `and' at the end of paragraph (1); and
 (3) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
 `(2) by financing on a grant basis (except as provided in subsection (j))--
 `(A) the sale of defense articles or defense services; or
 `(B) procurement by commercial leasing under subsection (d).'.
 (b) ARTICLES AND SERVICES LOANED UNDER DRAWDOWN AUTHORITY- Section 503(c)(2)
 of that Act is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (A);
 (2) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(C) to any defense article or defense service that is made available under
 the special drawdown authority of section 506(a)(1).
In the case of defense articles made available under section 506(a)(1)
that are loaned under subsection (a)(1) of this section, the value of the
defense articles (in terms of their replacement cost less any depreciation
in their value) shall be counted against the limitation in that section.'.
 (c) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ASSISTANCE- Section 503 of that Act is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
 `(d) FINANCING PROCUREMENT BY COMMERCIAL LEASING-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION- Financing may be provided under this section to Israel
 and Egypt for the procurement by leasing (including leasing with an option
 to purchase) of defense articles from United States commercial suppliers
 if the President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or
 national security reasons for those defense articles being provided by
 commercial lease rather than by government-to-government sale under the
 Arms Export Control Act.
 `(2) MAJOR DEFENSE EQUIPMENT- The authority of this subsection may not be
 used to finance the procurement of major defense equipment (as defined in
 section 47(5) of the Arms Export Control Act) except for helicopters and
 other types of aircraft having possible civilian application.
 `(3) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- The authority of this subsection may be
 exercised only if the appropriate congressional committees are notified at
 least 15 days in advance in accordance with the procedures applicable to
 reprogramming notifications under section 634A.
 `(4) LIMITATION- Any exercise of the authority of this subsection shall be
 subject to specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriations Act.
 `(e) OBLIGATION OF FUNDS-
 `(1) OBLIGATION UPON APPORTIONMENT- Funds appropriated to carry out this
 chapter on a grant basis may be obligated for a particular country or
 international organization upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph
 (5)(C) of section 1501(a) of title 31, United States Code.
 `(2) LIMITATION- Funds appropriated to carry out this chapter on a grant
 basis shall be available to finance the procurement of defense articles and
 defense services that are not sold by the United States Government only if the
 country or international organization proposing to make such procurement has
 first signed a grant agreement with the United States Government specifying
 the conditions under which such procurements may be financed with such funds.
 `(f) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN COSTS FROM CERTAIN SALES- Sales under the Arms
 Export Control Act which are wholly paid from funds--
 `(1) which are made available on a grant basis under this chapter, or
 `(2) which, prior to the effective date of this subsection, were transferred
 under the former authority of subsection (a)(3) of this section or were made
 available on a nonrepayable basis under the former authority of section 23
 of the Arms Export Control Act,
shall be priced to exclude the costs of salaries of members of the Armed
Forces of the United States (other than the Coast Guard).
 `(g) FINANCING FOR COPRODUCTION OR LICENSED PRODUCTION- Assistance may not be
 furnished under this chapter in any case involving coproduction or licensed
 production outside the United States of any defense article of United
 States origin unless the President furnishes full information regarding
 the proposed transaction to the appropriate congressional committees. Such
 information shall be furnished before the coproduction or licensed production
 arrangement is approved by the United States Government or, if the decision
 to provide assistance is made after the arrangement is approved, before
 the assistance is furnished. Such information shall include--
 `(1) a description of the defense article that would be coproduced or
 produced under license outside the United States;
 `(2) the estimated value of such coproduction or licensed production; and
 `(3) an analysis of the economic impact on the United States of furnishing
 or not furnishing the proposed assistance.
 `(h) PROCUREMENT INVOLVING CERTAIN VESSELS OF WAR-
 `(1) PROHIBITION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), if the President so
 determines, assistance described in paragraph (3) may not be used for the
 procurement of--
 `(A) any vessel of war built pursuant to a prime contract awarded to a
 foreign shipyard; or
 `(B) any weapons system or other major system or subsystem for any vessel of
 war built pursuant to a prime contract awarded to foreign shipyard rather
 than a United States shipyard because of unfair foreign competition (such
 as subsidization or the provision of financial or material incentives to
 the foreign country for which the vessel is built).
 `(2) EXCEPTIONS- Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to--
 `(A) a vessel of war that is built in the foreign country that is the
 recipient of the assistance;
 `(B) a vessel of war that is built pursuant to a prime contract signed
 before the effective date of this subsection; or
 `(C) procurement necessary for the maintenance, repair, or replacement of
 any weapons system or other major system or subsystem.
 `(3) ASSISTANCE SUBJECT TO PROHIBITION- The prohibition in paragraph (1)
 applies with respect to any obligation of assistance under this section,
 and any expenditure of FMS or FMF assistance, totaling more than $1,000,000.
 `(4) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this subsection--
 `(A) the term `FMS or FMF assistance' means any assistance under the former
 authorities of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act; and
 `(B) the term `vessel of war' means any vessel of war in Category VI of
 the United States Munitions List, without regard to whether the vessel is
 imported into or exported from the United States.
 `(i) COMMITMENT OF PRIOR YEAR MILITARY ASSISTANCE FUNDS-
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), if the President at any
 time notifies the appropriate congressional committees that, after the date of
 such notification, no further sales will be made pursuant to the Arms Export
 Control Act to a specified country under circumstances then prevailing--
 `(A) any uncommitted funds allocated for such country that, prior to the
 enactment of this section, were transferred under the former authority of
 subsection (a)(3) of this section for the purpose of financing such sales, and
 `(B) any uncommitted funds allocated for such country under the former
 authority of section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act,
may be committed to finance sales to other eligible countries under this
chapter.
 `(2) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- Any notification under paragraph (1) shall
 be submitted to the appropriate congressional committees, at least 15
 days before funds are to be committed, in accordance with the procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.
 `(3) LIMITATION- Any exercise of the authority of paragraph (1) shall be
 subject to specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
 `(j) AUTHORITY FOR CREDIT ASSISTANCE FOR FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to the requirements of the Federal Credit Reform
 Act of 1990, financing assistance may be provided under subsection (a)(2)(A)
 of this section on a credit basis for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 in accordance
 with this subsection.
 `(2) LIMITATION ON CREDIT COMPONENT OF ASSISTANCE TO INDIVIDUAL COUNTRIES-
 If, pursuant to this subsection, a country receives financing assistance
 under this chapter both on a grant basis and on a credit basis--
 `(A) not more than 60 percent of the aggregate amount of such assistance
 for fiscal year 1992 may be provided on a credit basis, and
 `(B) not more than 30 percent of the aggregate amount of such assistance
 for fiscal year 1993 may be provided on a credit basis.
 `(3) TERMS OF CREDITS-
 `(A) REPAYMENT PERIOD- In the case of credits provided under this subsection,
 the President shall require repayment in United States dollars within a
 period not to exceed 12 years after the loan agreement is signed on behalf
 of the United States Government.
 `(B) INTEREST RATE- The President shall charge interest on credits provided
 under this subsection at such rate as the President considers appropriate,
 except that such rate may not be less than 5 percent per year.
 `(4) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES IN CREDIT ASSISTANCE- At least
 15 days before obligating funds for credits under this subsection for a
 fiscal year--
 `(A) for any country for which credits were not justified for that fiscal
 year, or
 `(B) for any country in an amount greater than the amount of credits
 justified for that country for that fiscal year,
the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees in
accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
under section 634A.
 `(5) CERTAIN GENERIC AUTHORIZATIONS SUPERSEDED- The authorizations of
 appropriations provided in section 505(a) of the Federal Credit Reform
 Act of 1990 for the costs associated with loan programs do not apply with
 respect to credits under this subsection.'.
SEC. 203. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING
ASSISTANCE.
 Section 504(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the President to carry out the purposes of this chapter the following
 amounts for the following purposes:
 `(1) For Israel, $1,800,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and
 1993. Provisions relating such assistance are contained in section 601 of
 the International Cooperation Act of 1961.
 `(2) For Egypt, $1,300,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and
 1993. Provisions relating such assistance are contained in section 602 of
 the International Cooperation Act of 1961.
 `(3) For Turkey, $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(4) For Greece, $350,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 `(5) For recipients or purposes other than those specified in the preceding
 paragraphs of this subsection, $512,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
 and 1993.'.
SEC. 204. CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY.
 (a) RESTRICTIONS THAT MUST BE AGREED TO BY RECIPIENT COUNTRY- Section 505(a)
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) in the text preceding paragraph (1), by striking out `on a grant basis'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `under this chapter' ; and
 (2) by striking out paragraphs (1) through (4) and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following:
 `(1) it will not, without the consent of the President--
 `(A) transfer title to, or possession of, such articles or services to
 anyone who is not an officer, employee, or agent of that country; or
 `(B) use or permit the use of such articles or services for purposes other
 than those for which furnished; and
 `(2) it will maintain the security of such articles or services, and will
 provide substantially the same degree of security protection afforded to
 such articles or services by the United States Government.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 505(f) of that Act is amended--
 (1) by striking out the first sentence; and
 (2) in the last sentence, by striking out all that follows `requirement'
 through `Government' and inserting in lieu thereof `formerly imposed pursuant
 to this subsection and subsection (a)(4)'.
SEC. 205. DEFENSE DRAWDOWN SPECIAL AUTHORITIES.
 (a) MILITARY ASSISTANCE DRAWDOWN- Section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 is amended by striking out `$75,000,000' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `$100,000,000'.
 (b) NONMILITARY ASSISTANCE DRAWDOWN- Section 506 of that Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(2)(A), by striking out `direct--' and all that
 follows through the period and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `direct the drawdown of such articles, services, and education and training
 for the purposes and under the authorities of--
 `(i) chapter 8 of part I (relating to international narcotics control
 assistance),
 `(ii) chapter 9 of part I (relating to international disaster assistance), or
 `(iii) the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962.';
 (2) in subsection (a)(2)(B)--
 (A) by striking out `$75,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$100,000,000'; and
 (B) by inserting before the period `, not more than $75,000,000 of which
 may be provided pursuant to clause (i) of that subparagraph'; and
 (3) in subsection (b)(1), by adding at the end the following: `In the case
 of drawdowns authorized by clauses (i) and (iii) of subsection (a)(2)(A),
 notifications shall be provided to those committees at least 15 days in
 advance in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming
 notifications under section 634A.'
 (c) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF EXERCISE OF SPECIAL AUTHORITIES- Section 652 of
 that Act is amended by striking out `prior to the date' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `before'.
SEC. 206. IMPROVED ACCOUNTABILITY WITH RESPECT TO FINANCED COMMERCIAL
ARMS SALES.
 Chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act is amended by inserting
 after section 506 the following:
`SEC. 507. IMPROVED ACCOUNTABILITY WITH RESPECT TO FINANCED COMMERCIAL
ARMS SALES.
 `(a) IMPROVED ACCOUNTABILITY- To improve  accountability with respect to
 financed commercial arms sales, the President shall establish monitoring
 and auditing controls providing those sales shall be subject to requirements
 no less stringent in terms of accountability than those requirements of the
 Federal Acquisition Regulation relating to improper business practices and
 personal conflict of interest that are applicable to sales under the Arms
 Export Control Act.
 `(b) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `Federal Acquisition Regulation' means the single system of
 Government-wide procurement regulation referred to in section 6(a) of the
 Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 405(a)); and
 `(2) the term `financed commercial arms sales' means any procurement of
 defense articles or defense services (other than by sale or lease under
 the Arms Export Control Act)--
 `(A) which is financed in whole or in part with assistance under this
 chapter, and
 `(B) with respect to which an export license is required under section 38
 of Arms Export Control Act.
 `(c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The controls established pursuant to this section
 shall be established not later than one year after the date of enactment
 of this section.'.
SEC. 207. STOCKPILES.
 (a) ADDITIONS IN FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993- Section 514(b)(2) of the
 Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) The value of such additions to stockpiles in foreign countries shall not
 exceed $429,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and shall not exceed $429,000,000
 for fiscal year 1993.'.
 (b) CLARIFYING AMENDMENT- Section 514(b)(1) of that Act is amended by
 inserting `additional' after `value of'.
 (c) LOCATION OF STOCKPILES- Section 514(c) of that Act is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(c) LOCATION OF STOCKPILES-
 `(1) LIMITATION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), no stockpile may
 be located outside the boundaries of a United States military base or a
 military base used primarily by the United States.
 `(2) EXCEPTIONS- Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to stockpiles
 located in the Republic of Korea, Thailand, any country that is a member
 of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, any country that is a major
 non-NATO ally, or any other country the President may designate. At least
 15 days before designating a country pursuant to the last clause of the
 preceding sentence, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional
 committees in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming
 notifications under section 634A.'.
SEC. 208. OVERSEAS MANAGEMENT OF ASSISTANCE AND SALES PROGRAMS.
 (a) SIZE OF GROUPS- Section 515(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended by striking out `(c)(1)' and all that follows through `(2)'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `(c) SIZE OF GROUPS- '.
 (b) COSTS- Section 515(d) of that Act is amended by striking out `(d)
 Effective October 1, 1989, the entire costs (excluding salaries of the
 United States military personnel)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(d)
 COSTS- The entire costs (excluding salaries of members of the Arms Forces,
 other than the Coast Guard)'.
SEC. 209. EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES.
 (a) DEFENSE MODERNIZATION ON NATO'S SOUTHERN FLANK-
 (1) RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY- Section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking out `during the fiscal years 1987 through 1991';
 (ii) by striking out `fiscal year 1990' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `fiscal year 1991'; and
 (B) by adding at the end of the section the following:
 `(f) DURATION OF AUTHORITY- The authority of this section shall be effective
 during fiscal years 1992 through 1996.'.
 (2) EXCESS COAST GUARD PROPERTY- Section 516(e) of that Act is amended--
 (A) by striking out `DEFINITION- ' and inserting in lieu thereof `DEFINITIONS-
 (1)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) As used in this section, the term `excess defense articles' shall
 be deemed to include excess property of the Coast Guard, and  the term
 `Department of Defense' shall be deemed, with respect to such excess property,
 to include the Coast Guard.'.
 (3) MILITARY BALANCE IN THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN- Section 516 of that Act
 is further amended--
 (A) by striking out the last sentence of subsection (a); and
 (B) by adding at the end the following:
 `(g) MAINTENANCE OF MILITARY BALANCE IN THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN-
 `(1)  UNITED STATES POLICY- Excess defense articles shall be made available
 under this section and section 519 consistent with the United States policy,
 established in section 620C of this Act, of maintaining the military balance
 in the Eastern Mediterranean.
 `(2) MAINTENANCE OF BALANCE- Accordingly, the President shall ensure that,
 over the 3-year period beginning on October 1, 1992, the ratio of--
 `(A) the value of excess defense articles made available for Turkey under
 this section and section 519, to
 `(B) the value of excess defense articles made available for Greece under
 this section and section 519,
closely approximates the ratio of--
 `(i) the amount of foreign military financing assistance provided for Turkey
 under this chapter, to
 `(ii) the amount of foreign military financing assistance provided for
 Greece under this chapter.
 `(3) EXCEPTION TO REQUIREMENT- This subsection shall not apply if either
 Greece or Turkey ceases to be eligible to receive excess defense articles
 under this section and section 519.
 `(4) DEFINITION- As used in this subsection, the term `made available'
 means a good faith offer is made by the United States to furnish the excess
 defense articles to a country.'.
 (b) COUNTERNARCOTICS PROGRAMS- Section 517 of that Act is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `military capabilities of certain
 major illicit drug producing' and inserting in lieu thereof `counternarcotics
 capabilities of certain';
 (2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `(as defined in section 481(i)(2))'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `or a major drug-transit country';
 (3) in subsection (a)(3), by striking out `(as defined in section
 502B(d)(1))';
 (4) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by inserting `and local law enforcement agencies' after `military
 forces'; and
 (B) by striking out `with local law enforcement agencies' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `cooperatively';
 (5) in subsection (d), by striking out `4601 of the International Narcotics
 Control Act of 1988' and inserting in lieu thereof `481(b) of this Act';
 (6) in subsection (i), by striking out `30' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `15'; and
 (7) by adding at the end the following:
 `(j) EXCESS COAST GUARD PROPERTY- As used in this section, the term `excess
 defense articles' shall be deemed to include excess property of the Coast
 Guard, and the term `Department of Defense' shall be deemed, with respect
 to such excess property, to include the Coast Guard.'.
 (c) ANNUAL CEILING- Section 31 of the Arms Export Control Act is amended--
 (1) by striking out the section designation and section heading and
 subsections (a), (b), and (c) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`SEC. 31. TRANSFERS OF EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES.';
and
 (2) in subsection (d)--
 (A) by striking out `(d)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(a) ANNUAL CEILING-
 '; and
 (B) by striking out `$250,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$500,000,000'.
 (d) ANNUAL REPORT-
 (1) REVISION OF REQUIREMENTS- Section 31 of that Act, as so amended, is
 further amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(b) ANNUAL REPORT- The annual presentation materials for security assistance
 programs shall include a table listing by country the total value of all
 deliveries of excess defense articles during the preceding fiscal year under
 this Act or section 503, section 506, section 516, section 517, section
 518, or section 519 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (respectively),
 disclosing both the aggregate original acquisition cost and the aggregate
 value at the time of delivery.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (A) Sections 8 and 11 of the Act entitled
 `An Act to amend the Foreign Military Sales Act, and for other purposes',
 enacted January 21, 1971 (Public Law 91-672), are repealed.
 (B) Subsection (e) of section 519 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is
 repealed, and subsection (f) of that section is redesignated as subsection
 (e).
 (e) EXCESS COAST GUARD PROPERTY- Section 31 of that Act, as so amended,
 is further amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(c) EXCESS COAST GUARD PROPERTY- As used in this section, the term `excess
 defense articles' shall be deemed, where appropriate in the context, to
 include excess property of the Coast Guard.'.
 (f) EXCLUSION OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT FROM DEFINITION OF EXCESS DEFENSE
 ARTICLES- Section 644(g) of that Act is amended by inserting `(other than
 construction equipment, including tractors, scrapers, loaders, graders,
 bulldozers, dump trucks, generators, and compressors)' after `articles'
 the first place it appears.
 (g) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE AUTHORIZATION- Section 573 of the Foreign Operations,
 Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990, is amended
 by repealing subsections (a) through (d) and subsections (f) and (g).
SEC. 210. INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
 (a) PARTICIPANTS- Section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is
 amended--
 (1) by inserting `, and may also include legislators,' after `ministries
 of defense'; and
 (2) by striking out `or (iii)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(iii)
 contribute to cooperation between military and law enforcement personnel
 with respect to counternarcotics law enforcement efforts, or (iv)'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 542 of that Act is amended
 by striking out all that follows `chapter' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$50,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 211. PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.
 (a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE- Section 551 of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `friendly' and inserting in lieu thereof `foreign'; and
 (2) by striking out `other programs carried out in furtherance of the
 national security interests of the United States' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `and activities and related programs'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 552(a) of that Act is amended
 by striking out all that follows `chapter,' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `$28,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $28,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.'.
 (c) RELATION TO OTHER PROVISIONS- Chapter 6 of part II of that Act is
 amended by inserting after section 552 the following:
`SEC. 553. RELATION TO OTHER PROVISIONS.
 `The authority provided by this chapter to furnish assistance for the
 purposes specified in section 551 is in addition to any other authority
 which may be available for those purposes. Assistance provided under this
 chapter may be made available notwithstanding any provision of law that
 restricts assistance to foreign countries.'.
SEC. 212. INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM.
 (a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ANTITERRORISM ASSISTANCE- Section
 575(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by striking out
 all that follows `chapter' and inserting in lieu thereof `$15,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1992 and $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.'.
 (b) CONSIDERATIONS IN PROVIDING ASSISTANCE- Chapter 1 of part III of that
 Act is amended by inserting after section 620A the following:
`SEC. 620B. CONSIDERATION OF COOPERATION REGARDING INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM.
 `In providing assistance under this Act, the President should take into
 account the cooperation provided by other countries in connection with
 matters related to international terrorism, including such matters as whether
 a country grants sanctuary from prosecution to individuals or groups that
 have engaged in international terrorism.'.
SEC. 213. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR END-USE MONITORING.
 Section 623(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 striking out `supervision' and inserting in lieu thereof `monitoring'.
SEC. 214. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PROCUREMENT OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.
 Section 36(a) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (10);
 (2) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (11) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end after paragraph (11) the following:
 `(12) a listing by country of the estimated amount of funds which will be
 used for procurement of defense articles and defense services outside the
 United States as a result of any determination made during the preceding
 quarter pursuant to section 604 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
 together with a statement of the reasons for any such determination.'.
CHAPTER 2--FOREIGN MILITARY SALES PROGRAM
SEC. 221. ARMS TRANSFER POLICY.
 (a) POLICY STATEMENT- Section 1 of the Arms Export Control Act is amended
 to read as follows:
`SECTION 1. UNITED STATES ARMS TRANSFER POLICY.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Congress reaffirms that an ultimate goal of the United
 States continues to be a world which is free from the scourge of war and
 the dangers and burdens of armaments. It shall be the policy of the United
 States to exert leadership in the world community to bring about arms control
 arrangements and to limit conventional arms transfers in the interest of
 international peace and stability.
 `The Congress recognizes, however, that the United States and other free
 and independent countries continue to have valid requirements for effective
 and mutually beneficial defense relationships in order to maintain and
 foster international peace and security essential to social, economic,
 and political progress.
 `(b) POLICY OBJECTIVES IN IMPLEMENTING ACT- The policy of the United States
 in implementing the authorities of this Act relating to sales and other
 transfers of defense articles, defense services, and design and construction
 services shall be based upon the following objectives:
 `(1) Ensuring that such transfers are fully consistent with the foreign policy
 interests, national security, and arms control policies of the United States.
 `(2) Ensuring that such transfers directly enhance or achieve specific
 national defense requirements of the recipient country or objectives
 of mutual concern and contribute directly to the common defense, with
 particular regard being given to the impact of such transfers on programs
 of social and economic development and on existing or incipient arms races.
 `(3) Promoting defense cooperation and rationalization, standardization,
 and interoperability of foreign military forces with the Armed Forces of
 the United States.
 `(4) Contributing to the deterrence of aggression and promoting regional
 security by enabling recipient countries to negotiate peaceful solutions
 to conflicts with confidence.
 `(5) Enabling recipient countries to participate in regional or collective
 arrangements or other measures consistent with the Charter of the United
 Nations.
 `(6) Complementing United States efforts to restrain and control the
 international transfer of defense articles and defense services and to
 encourage international conventional arms control arrangements.
 `(c) MULTILATERAL CONTROLS ON TRANSFERS OF DEFENSE ARTICLES AND DEFENSE
 SERVICES- The President should continue to seek, through negotiations
 with other principal countries supplying or receiving defense articles and
 defense services, the establishment of effective multilateral controls on
 the transfer of defense articles and defense services.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO PURPOSES FOR WHICH DEFENSE ARTICLES
 MAY BE USED-
 (1) REPEAL OF EXISTING PURPOSE SECTION- Section 4 of that Act is repealed.
 (2) INELIGIBILITY- Section 3(c) of that Act is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), as amended by chapter 3 of this title--
 (i) by striking out `not authorized under section 4' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `not specified in paragraph (5) of this subsection (or in the
 case of articles or services furnished before the date of enactment of the
 International Cooperation Act of 1991, a purpose that was not authorized
 under section 4)';
 (ii) by striking out `authorized under section 4' the second place it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `purposes'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following:
 `(5) The purposes referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
 `(A) Legitimate self-defense.
 `(B) Participation in regional or collective arrangements or measures
 consistent with the Charter of the United Nations, or participation in
 collective measures requested by the United Nations for the purpose of
 maintaining or restoring international peace and security.
 `(C) Internal security.
 `(D) Responding to natural and manmade disasters in order to meet urgent
 humanitarian needs.
 `(E) Such other purposes as may be explicitly provided for in particular
 provisions of law.'.
SEC. 222. IMPROVED ACCOUNTING FOR FOREIGN MILITARY SALES.
 Section 37 of the Arms Export and Control Act is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
 `(d) FMS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT- The President shall take the following steps
 to continue to improve the financial management problems with respect to
 payments on accounts of FMS sales:
 `(1) TRUST FUND MANAGEMENT- Certify, in accordance with the Chief Financial
 Officers Act of 1990, that payments with respect to any FMS sale are
 properly recorded by case and country with regard to financial accounts
 for each customer.
 `(2) COORDINATION OF FMS SYSTEMS- Improve the coordination and uniformity
 of the military services systems that are used to account for, control,
 and report upon the operation of the FMS program.
 `(3) RECONCILIATION OF FMS CASES- Reconcile the discrepancies between
 reported disbursements and reported performance for all uncompleted FMS
 sales agreements executed prior to March 1989.
 `(4) NOTIFICATION- Should the President determine that all efforts to
 reconcile reported disbursements and reported performance of FMS cases
 executed prior to March 1989 are to be terminated, he shall notify in
 writing the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. Such notification
 shall provide the reasons for such termination and a list of unreconciled
 balances by country which are to be uncollected.
 `(5) REPORT ON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF FMS CASES- The President shall report
 to the Congress no later than January 31 of each year on the following:
 `(A) The status of trust fund management of FMS cases, including a list of
 any unreconciled balances for FMS cases executed after March 1989.
 `(B) The results of efforts to improve coordination and uniformity of the
 military services systems that are used to account for, control, and report
 upon the operation of the FMS program.
 `(C) The status of all unreconciled FMS cases executed prior to March 1989,
 including--
 `(i) a listing of FMS cases closed, detailed by country and value, that
 have occurred since the Department of Defense implemented its revised case
 closure procedures;
 `(ii) an aggregate value of the unreconciled balance of FMS cases;
 `(iii) a list of the unreconciled balance by country; and
 `(iv) a list by country of those cases closed with unreconciled balance
 and the amount uncollected.
 `(6) FMS DEFINED- As used in this subsection, the term `FMS' means sales
 of defense articles, defense services, or design and construction services
 under section 21, 22, or 29 of this Act.'.
SEC. 223. DESIGNATION OF MAJOR NON-NATO ALLIES.
 (a) DESIGNATION- Chapter 4 of the Arms Export Control Act is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 48. DESIGNATION OF MAJOR NON-NATO ALLIES.
 `(a) INITIAL DESIGNATIONS- Australia, Egypt, Israel, Japan, New Zealand,
 and the Republic of Korea are hereby designated as major non-NATO allies
 for purposes of this Act and the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, except that
 New Zealand shall be eligible for special treatment authorized by such Acts
 for major non-NATO allies only to the extent that the President determines
 (and so notifies the appropriate congressional committees) that such special
 treatment is in the national security interest of the United States.
 `(b) AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE ADDITIONAL COUNTRIES- A country not designated by
 subsection (a) shall be considered to be a major non-NATO ally for purposes of
 this Act and the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 if the President so designates
 that country. Such a designation by the President shall be effective only
 if the President provides at least 15 days advance notification to the
 appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- That Act is amended--
 (1) in section 21(g)--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking out `Japan, Australia, and New Zealand,
 and with other countries which are', and
 (B) by repealing the last sentence;
 (2) in section 47--
 (A) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (7);
 (B) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (8) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following:
 `(9) `major non-NATO ally' means a country that is so designated in accordance
 with section 48.'; and
 (3) in section 65(d)--
 (A) by striking out `or major non-NATO', and
 (B) by striking out `or a' and all that follows through `Code'.
SEC. 224. CERTIFICATION THRESHOLDS.
 (a) INCREASE IN DOLLAR THRESHOLDS- The Arms Export Control Act is amended--
 (1) in section 3(d)--
 (A) in paragraphs (1) and (3), by striking out `$14,000,000' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `$18,000,000'; and
 (B) in paragraphs (1) and (3), by striking out `$50,000,000' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `$75,000,000';
 (2) in section 36--
 (A) in subsections (b)(1), (b)(5)(C), and (c), by striking out `$14,000,000'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `$18,000,000';
 (B) in subsections (b)(1), (b)(5)(C), and (c), by striking out `$50,000,000'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `$75,000,000'; and
 (C) in subsections (b)(1) and (b)(5)(C), by striking out `200,000,000'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `$300,000,000'; and
 (3) in section 63--
 (A) by striking out `$14,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$18,000,000';
 and
 (B) by striking out `$50,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$75,000,000'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) apply with
 respect to certifications submitted on or after the effective date of
 those amendments.
SEC. 225. STANDARDIZING CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PROCEDURES FOR ARMS TRANSFERS.
 (a) THIRD COUNTRY TRANSFERS UNDER FMS SALES- Section 3(d)(2) of the Arms
 Export Control Act is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `, as provided for in sections
 36(b)(2) and 36(b)(3) of this Act';
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking out `law' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `joint resolution'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(C) If the President states in his certification under subparagraph (A)
 or (B) that an emergency exists which requires that consent to the proposed
 transfer become effective immediately in the national security interests of
 the United States, thus waiving the requirements of that subparagraph, the
 President shall set forth in the certification a detailed justification for
 his determination, including a description of the emergency circumstances
 which necessitate immediate consent to the transfer and a discussion of
 the national security interests involved.
 `(D)(i) Any joint resolution under this paragraph shall be considered
 in the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of the
 International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
 `(ii) For the purpose of expediting the consideration and enactment
 of joint resolutions under this paragraph, a motion to proceed to the
 consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by
 the appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the
 House of Representatives.'.
 (b) THIRD COUNTRY TRANSFERS UNDER COMMERCIAL SALES- Section 3(d)(3) of that
 Act is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(A)' after `(3)';
 (2) in the first sentence--
 (A) by striking out `at least 30 calendar days', and
 (B) by striking out `report' and inserting in lieu thereof `certification';
 and
 (3) by striking out the last sentence and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following: `Such certification shall be submitted--
 `(i) at least 15 calendar days before such consent is given in the case
 of a transfer to a country which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty
 Organization or Australia, Japan, or New Zealand, and
 `(ii) at least 30 calendar days before such consent is given in the case
 of a transfer to any other country, unless the President states in his
 certification that an emergency exists which requires that consent to the
 proposed transfer become effective immediately in the national security
 interests of the United States. If the President states in his certification
 that such an emergency exists (thus waiving the requirements of clause (i) or
 (ii), as the case may be, and of subparagraph (B)) the President shall set
 forth in the certification a detailed justification for his determination,
 including a description of the emergency circumstances which necessitate
 that consent to the proposed transfer become effective immediately and a
 discussion of the national security interests involved.
 `(B) Consent to a transfer subject to subparagraph (A) shall become effective
 after the end of the 15-day or 30-day period specified in subparagraph
 (A)(i) or (ii), as the case may be, only if the Congress does not enact,
 within that period, a joint resolution prohibiting the proposed transfer.
 `(C)(i) Any joint resolution under this paragraph shall be considered
 in the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of the
 International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
 `(ii) For the purpose of expediting the consideration and enactment
 of joint resolutions under this paragraph, a motion to proceed to the
 consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by
 the appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the
 House of Representatives.'.
 (c) COMMERCIAL SALES- Section 36(c)(2) of that Act is amended by amending
 subparagraphs (A) and (B) to read as follows:
 `(A) in the case of a license for an export to the North Atlantic Treaty
 Organization, any member country of that Organization, or Australia, Japan,
 or New Zealand, shall not be issued until at least 15 calendar days after the
 Congress receives such certification, and shall not be issued then if the
 Congress, within that 15-day period, enacts a joint resolution prohibiting
 the proposed export; and
 `(B) in the case of any other license, shall not be issued until at least
 30 calendar days after the Congress receives such certification, and shall
 not be issued then if the Congress, within that 30-day period, enacts a
 joint resolution prohibiting the proposed export.'.
 (d) COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING AGREEMENTS- Section 36(d) of that Act is
 amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(d)';
 (2) by striking out `for or in a country not a member of the North Atlantic
 Treaty Organization'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) A certification under this subsection shall be submitted--
 `(A) at least 15 days before approval is given in the case of an agreement for
 or in a country which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
 Australia, Japan, or New Zealand; and
 `(B) at least 30 days before approval is given in the case of an agreement
 for or in any other country;
unless the President states in his certification that an emergency exists
which requires the immediate approval of the agreement in the national
security interests of the United States.
 `(3) If the President states in his certification that an emergency exists
 which requires the immediate approval of the agreement in the national
 security interests of the United States, thus waiving the requirements
 of paragraph (4), he shall set forth in the certification a detailed
 justification for his determination, including a description of the emergency
 circumstances which necessitate the immediate approval of the agreement
 and a discussion of the national security interests involved.
 `(4) Approval for an agreement subject to paragraph (1) may not be given
 under section 38 if the Congress, within the 15-day or 30-day period
 specified in paragraph (2)(A) or (B), as the case may be, enacts a joint
 resolution prohibiting such approval.
 `(5)(A) Any joint resolution under paragraph (4) shall be considered in
 the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of the
 International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
 `(B) For the purpose of expediting the consideration and enactment
 of joint resolutions under paragraph (4), a motion to proceed to the
 consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by
 the appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the
 House of Representatives.'.
 (e) GOVERNMENT-TO-GOVERNMENT LEASES-
 (1) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PERIOD- Section 62 of that Act is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a) by striking out `Not less than 30 days before' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `Before';
 (B) in subsection (b)--
 (i) by striking out `determines, and immediately reports to the Congress'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `states in his certification,'; and
 (ii) by adding at the end of the subsection the following: `If the President
 states in his certification that such an emergency exists, he shall set
 forth in the certification a detailed justification for his determination,
 including a description of the emergency circumstances which necessitate
 that the lease be entered into immediately and a discussion of the national
 security interests involved.'; and
 (C) by adding at the end of the section the following:
 `(c) The certification required by subsection (a) shall be transmitted--
 `(1) not less than 15 calendar days before the agreement is entered into
 or renewed in the case of an agreement with the North Atlantic Treaty
 Organization, any member country of that Organization, Australia, Japan,
 or New Zealand; and
 `(2) not less than 30 calendar days before the agreement is entered into or
 renewed in the case of an agreement with any other organization or country.'.
 (2) LEGISLATIVE REVIEW- Section 63(a) of that Act is amended--
 (A) by striking out `(a)(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(a)';
 (B) by striking out the `30 calendar days after receiving the certification
 with respect to that proposed agreement pursuant to section 62(a),' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `the 15-day or 30-day period specified in section
 62(c) (1) or (2), as the case may be,'; and
 (C) by striking out paragraph (2).
 (f) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section apply with respect
 to certifications required to be submitted on or after the effective date
 of those amendments.
SEC. 226. FOREIGN AVAILABILITY.
 (a) GOVERNMENT-TO-GOVERNMENT ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION- Section 36(b)(1)
 of the Arms Export Control Act is amended--
 (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following: `Such certifications
 shall also contain an analysis of the extent to which comparable kinds and
 amounts of defense articles, defense services, or design and construction
 services are available from other countries, and shall specify the countries
 with respect to which either a letter of offer to sell such articles or
 services has been issued under this Act, a license to export such articles
 or services has been issued under section 38, or approval for a commercial
 technical assistance or manufacturing licensing agreement for such articles
 or services has been given under section 38.';
 (2) by striking out clause (K) and by redesignating clauses (L) through
 (P) as clauses (K) through (O), respectively; and
 (3) in the first sentence following those clauses, by inserting `, and
 the information required by the second sentence of this subsection,' after
 `subsection (a)'.
 (b) COMMERCIAL ARMS SALES NOTIFICATIONS- Section 36(c)(1) of that Act
 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence--
 (A) by striking out `and' immediately before `(C)'; and
 (B) by inserting before the period `, (D) the extent to which comparable
 kinds and amounts of items are available from other countries, and (E)
 the countries with respect to which either a letter of offer to sell such
 item has been issued under section 21 or 22, a license to export such item
 has been issued under section 38, or approval for a commercial technical
 assistance or manufacturing licensing agreement for such item has been
 given under section 38'; and
 (2) in the last sentence by inserting `, (D), or (E)' after `clause (B)'.
SEC. 227. ECONOMIC IMPACT ON UNITED STATES OF ARMS SALES.
 (a) CONGRESSIONAL PRESENTATION MATERIALS- Section 25(a) of the Arms Export
 Control Act is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (11) and (12) as paragraphs (12) and (13),
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting the following new paragraph (11) after paragraph (10):
 `(11) an analysis of the economic benefits or disadvantages to the United
 States of sales and licensed commercial exports under this Act during the
 preceding fiscal year;'.
 (b) ARMS SALE NOTIFICATIONS- Section 36(b)(1) of that Act, as amended by
 the preceding section of this chapter, is further amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (N);
 (2) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (O) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by inserting after subparagraph (O) the following:
 `(P) an analysis of the economic benefits or disadvantages to the United
 States of the proposed sale.'.
SEC. 228. COPRODUCTION AGREEMENTS.
 (a) QUARTERLY REPORTS ON COPRODUCTION AGREEMENTS-
 (1) INFORMATION TO BE REPORTED- Section 36(a) of the Arms Export Control Act,
 as amended by chapter 1 of this title, is further amended--
 (A) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (11);
 (B) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (12) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:
 `(13) a report on all concluded government-to-government agreements governing
 foreign coproduction of defense articles of United States origin (including
 coproduction memoranda of understanding or agreement) that have not been
 previously reported under this paragraph, which shall include--
 `(A) the identity of the foreign countries or international organizations
 involved;
 `(B) a description and the estimated value of the articles authorized to
 be produced, and an estimate of the quantity of the articles authorized to
 be produced;
 `(C) a description of any restrictions on third party transfers of the
 foreign-manufactured articles; and
 `(D) if any such agreement does not provide for United States access to
 and verification of quantities of articles produced overseas and their
 disposition in the coproducing country, a description of alternative
 measures and controls incorporated in the coproduction program to ensure
 compliance with restrictions in the agreement on production quantities and
 third party transfers.'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by paragraph (1)(C) does not apply with
 respect to agreements entered into before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (b) SANCTIONS FOR UNAUTHORIZED THIRD COUNTRY TRANSFERS OF COPRODUCED DEFENSE
 ARTICLES- The Arms Export Control Act, as amended by chapter 3 of this title,
 is amended by inserting after section 32 the following:
`SEC. 33. UNAUTHORIZED THIRD COUNTRY TRANSFERS OF DEFENSE ARTICLES COPRODUCED
OR MANUFACTURED UNDER LICENSE ABROAD.
 `(a) WHEN SANCTIONS REQUIRED- The sanctions described in subsection (c)
 shall be applied as hereinafter provided if--
 `(1) the foreign party to a coproduction agreement violates the restrictions
 in that agreement regarding unauthorized third country or third party
 transfers or other unauthorized dispositions of--
 `(A) defense articles produced under that agreement, or
 `(B) technical data or defense services provided under that agreement, and
 `(2) that violation is substantial (either in terms of quantities or in terms
 of the gravity of the consequences regardless of the quantities involved).
 `(b) DETERMINATION REQUIRED- The sanctions described in this section shall
 apply if--
 `(1) the President so determines and states in writing to the Congress, or
 `(2) the Congress so determines by joint resolution.
 `(c) SANCTIONS TO BE APPLIED- If a determination is made under subsection
 (b) with respect to a foreign party to a coproduction agreement--
 `(1) the authority or license to produce defense articles abroad that is
 granted by all coproduction agreements to which that foreign party is a
 party shall be suspended during the sanction period; and
 `(2) licenses may not be issued and approval may not be granted under
 section 38 with respect to that foreign party during the sanction period.
 `(d) SANCTION PERIOD- As used in this section, the term `sanction period'
 means the period--
 `(1) beginning on the date on which the President notifies the Congress
 that he has made a determination pursuant to subsection (b)(1) or on which
 the Congress enacts a joint resolution pursuant to subsection (b)(2); and
 `(2) ending on the date on which the President reports to the Congress that--
 `(A) the violation has ceased; and
 `(B) the foreign party has given assurances satisfactory to the President
 that such a violation will not recur.
 `(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The President shall report to the Congress promptly
 on the receipt of information a violation described in subsection (a)
 may have occurred.
 `(f) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `coproduction agreement' means an arrangement for foreign
 production of United States origin defense articles--
 `(A) that is authorized or approved by a memorandum of understanding or a
 memorandum of agreement between a foreign government and the United States
 Government, or
 `(B) that is pursuant to a manufacturing license agreement approved under
 section 38 of this Act; and
 `(2) the term `foreign party' means a foreign government or foreign business
 entity that is granted authority or license to produce defense articles
 abroad by a coproduction agreement.
 `(g) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section does not apply to violations occurring
 before the effective date of this section, but does apply with respect to
 all coproduction agreements without regard to whether they were entered
 into before or after that date.'.
SEC. 229. ENFORCEMENT OF ARMS EXPORT LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC IN ARMS REGULATIONS-
 (1) DISQUALIFICATION AND FORFEITURE- Section 38 of that Act is amended by
 inserting after subsection (c) the following:
 `(d)(1) No contract between a foreign government and a person convicted
 or debarred for a violation of this section or section 39, or any rule or
 regulation issued under either section, may be approved for financing under
 chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 during the 12
 months following the date of such conviction or debarment.
 `(2)(A) Any person who is convicted for a violation of this section or
 section 39, or any rule or regulation issued under either section, shall
 (in addition to any other penalty) forfeit to the United States--
 `(i) any of that person's interest in, security of, claim against, or
 property or contractual rights of any kind in any defense article or other
 tangible item that was the subject of the violation;
 `(ii) any of that person's interest in, security of, claim against, or
 property or contractual rights of any kind in any defense article or other
 tangible item that was used in--
 `(I) the export or import or attempt to export or import, or
 `(II) the contribution, gift, commission, or fee that was paid or offered
 or agreed to be paid,
that was the subject of the violation; and
 `(iii) any of that person's property constituting, or derived from, any
 proceeds obtained directly or indirectly as a result of the violation.
 `(B) The procedures in any forfeiture under this paragraph, and the duties
 and authorities of the courts of the United States and the Attorney General
 with respect to any forfeiture action under this paragraph or with respect
 to any property that may be subject to forfeiture under this paragraph,
 shall be governed by section 1963 of title 18, United States Code. Any new
 budget authority provided by this subparagraph may be exercised only to such
 extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts.'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsection (d) of section 38 of that Act, as enacted by
 paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall take effect on the date of enactment
 of this Act or October 1, 1991 (whichever is later), and applies--
 (A) in the case of paragraph (1) of subsection (d), with respect to
 convictions or debarments occurring on or after the effective date of that
 subsection; and
 (B) in the case of paragraph (2) of subsection (d), with respect to
 convictions based on conduct occurring on or after the effective date of
 that subsection.
 (3) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- (A) Section 38(e) of that Act is amended by
 striking out `(e), and (g)' and inserting in lieu thereof `and (e)'.
 (B) The amendment made by subparagraph (A) does not apply with respect to
 convictions based on conduct occurring before the date specified in paragraph
 (2)(B).
 (b) ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES- Section 38(g) of the Arms Export Control Act
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `are the subject of an indictment
 for, or have been convicted of,' and inserting in lieu thereof `have been
 convicted of'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking out `are the subject of an indictment
 or';
 (2) in paragraph (3)--
 (A) by striking out subparagraph (A) and redesignating subparagraphs (B)
 and (C) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
 (B) at the end of the first sentence, by striking out `may disapprove the
 application' and inserting in lieu thereof `should disapprove the application
 if doing so is necessary to further law enforcement objectives or otherwise
 serve the national interest';
 (3) in paragraph (4), by inserting before the period at the end `or that
 foreign policy or national security considerations justify the issuance of
 the license to that person';
 (4) in paragraph (5), by inserting `or international organization' after
 `foreign government'; and
 (5) in paragraph (8)--
 (A) by inserting `within 60 days' after `shall'; and
 (B) by inserting before the period at the end `, and to assist with the
 processing of registration statements'.
 (c) REGISTRATION FEES-
 (1) TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY TO AECA- Section 38(b)(3)(A) of that Act is
 amended by striking out `of the fiscal years 1988 and 1989, $250,000'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `fiscal year, $700,000'.
 (2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (A) That section is further amended
 by striking out `munitions' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `defense trade'.
 (B) Section 45 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 is
 repealed.
SEC. 230. BIENNIAL REVIEW OF THE INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC IN ARMS REGULATIONS.
 Section 38(f) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended by striking out
 the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `Not later
 than one year after the date of enactment of this sentence and at least
 once every 2 years thereafter, the President shall review the regulations
 issued to carry out this section, including the items listed on the United
 States Munitions List, for the purpose of determining what changes in those
 regulations are appropriate, including determining what items, if any,
 no longer warrant export controls under this section. Based on each such
 review, the President shall revise those regulations as necessary and shall
 publish a revised compilation of those regulations.'.
SEC. 231. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE CHARGES FOR NATO SUBSIDIARY BODIES.
 Section 21(h)(1)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended by inserting
 `or by a North Atlantic Treaty Organization subsidiary body on behalf of
 such foreign government' after `North Atlantic Treaty Organization'.
SEC. 232. SALES OF DEPLETED URANIUM SHELLS.
 (a) PROHIBITION- Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds
 authorized to be appropriated by this or any other Act may be made available
 to facilitate in any way the sale of M-833 antitank shells, or any comparable
 antitank shells containing a depleted uranium penetrating component, to
 any country other than--
 (1) a country which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; or
 (2) a country which has been designated as a major non-NATO ally (as defined
 in section 47(9) of the Arms Export Control Act).
 (b) EXCEPTION- Subsection (a) shall not apply if the President determines that
 its application is not in the national security interest of the United States.
CHAPTER 3--TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS; REPEAL OF OBSOLETE AND
INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS
SEC. 241. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) in section 505(d)(1), by inserting `or under the Arms Export Control Act'
 after `Assistance Act'; and
 (2) in section 573(b), by striking out `Credits' and all that follows through
 `Act' and inserting in lieu thereof `Foreign military financing assistance'.
 (b) ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT- The Arms Export Control Act is amended as
 follows:
 (1) Section 2(b) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `or financing for' in paragraph (1); and
 (B) by striking out `financing' both other places it appears.
 (2) Section 3 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking out `(1)(A) No' and all that follows
 through `(B) No' and inserting in lieu thereof `(1) No';
 (B) in subsection (c)(1), as amended by subparagraph (A), by striking out
 `under this Act, or any predecessor Act,' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `, through sale, financing or otherwise, under this Act or the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (or under any predecessor military sales or foreign
 assistance legislation)';
 (C) in subsection (c)(3)(A), by striking out `subparagraph (A)' and all that
 follows through `such paragraphs,' and inserting in lieu thereof `paragraph
 (1)';
 (D) in subsection (c)(3)(B), by striking out `subparagraph (B) of'; and
 (E) in subsection (d), by striking out `or 505(a)(4)'.
 (3) Section 5(a) is amended by striking out `, and no credits (including
 participations in credits) or guaranties extended to or for' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `to'.
 (4) Section 6 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `, no credits or guarantees may be extended,'; and
 (B) by inserting `and no foreign military financing assistance may be
 furnished under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961' after `this Act'.
 (5) Section 21(c)(1) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c)(1) Members of the Armed Forces assigned or detailed to provide defense
 services sold under this Act may not perform duties of a combatant nature,
 including any duty related to training and advising that may engage United
 States Armed Forces personnel in combat activities, outside the United
 States in connection with the performance of those defense services.'.
 (6) Section 21(e)(1)(B) is amended by striking out `either from' and all that
 follows through `nonrepayable basis under' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `from either (i) funds made available on a grant basis under chapter 2 of
 part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, or (ii) funds which, prior to
 the effective date of this clause and clause (i), were transferred under the
 former authority of section 503(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 or were made available on a nonrepayable basis under the former authority of'.
 (7) Section 23 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `CREDIT SALES- (a)' and all that follows through `(e)(1)'
 inserting in lieu thereof `USE OF ASSISTANCE FOR REPAYMENT OF FMS DEBT;
 LIMITATION- (a) AUTHORITY- ';
 (B) by striking out `out this section' both places it appears and inserting in
 lieu thereof `out chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961';
 (C) by inserting `or that chapter' after `under this section';
 (D) by striking out `paragraph (2)' and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection
 (b)';
 (E) by striking out `(2) Funds' and inserting in lieu thereof `(b) LIMITATION-
 Funds'; and
 (F) by striking out `paragraph (1)' and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection
 (a)'.
 (8) Section 24 is amended--
 (A) by amending the section caption to read `PROVISIONS RELATING TO FORMER
 CREDIT AND GUARANTY AUTHORITIES';
 (B) in subsection (a), by striking out `The' in the first sentence and
 inserting in lieu thereof `To the extent necessary to carry out the provisions
 under the heading `Foreign Military Sales Debt Reform' in title III of the
 Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1988 (as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law 100-202), the';
 (C) in subsection (b), by inserting `under the former authority of' before
 `section 23'; and
 (D) by striking out subsection (c) and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
 `(c) The single reserve established under this section for the payment of
 claims under guaranties issued under the authority of this section may be
 referred to as the `Foreign Military Loan Liquidating Account'.
 `(d) Any guaranties issued under the authority of this section are backed
 by the full faith and credit of the United States.
 `(e) Any exercise of the authority of this section shall be subject to
 specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriations Act.'.
 (9) Section 25(a) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking out `military education' and all that
 follows through `guarantees,' and inserting in lieu thereof `and assistance
 under chapter 2 or chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961,';
 (B) in paragraph (5)(B), by striking out `credits or guaranties under this
 Act' and inserting in lieu thereof `financing under chapter 2 of part II
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961'; and
 (C) in paragraph (11)--
 (i) by striking out `the Arms Export Control Act' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `section 23 or 24 of this Act'; and
 (ii) by inserting before the semicolon at the end of the paragraph the
 following: `, and the status of each extension of credit for the procurement
 of defense articles or defense services under chapter 2 of title II of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with respect to which there remains
 outstanding any unpaid obligation or potential liability'.
 (10) Section 25(d), as added by section 112(a) of the International Security
 and Development Cooperation Act of 1985, is amended by striking out `this
 Act or under section 503(a)(3)' and inserting in lieu thereof `chapter 2
 of part II'.
 (11) Section 37 is amended--
 (A) in the section caption by striking out `RELATING TO FOREIGN MILITARY
 SALES CREDITS';
 (B) in subsection (a), by striking out `section 23' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `the former authority of section 23 or under the authority of
 chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961'; and
 (C) in subsection (b), by inserting `the former authority of' after `extended
 pursuant to'.
 (12) Section 42 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a), by striking out `, but subject to subsection (b)
 of this section,' in the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof
 a semicolon;
 (B) by repealing subsections (b) and (c) and by redesignating subsections
 (d) through (f) as subsections (b) through (d), respectively; and
 (C) in subsection (b)(1), as so redesignated, by striking out `and guaranties
 under sections 21, 22, 23, 24,' and inserting in lieu thereof `under sections
 21, 22,'.
SEC. 242. AMENDMENTS TO ELIMINATE OBSOLETE AND INCONSISTENT PROVISIONS.
 (a) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT- Sections 502A and 505(b) and chapters 3 and 7
 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are repealed.
 (b) ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT- The Arms Export Control Act is amended as
 follows:
 (1) Section 5(d) is repealed.
 (2) Section 25(a) is amended by repealing paragraphs (7) and (9), by
 redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (7), and by redesignating paragraphs
 (10) through (13) (as added and so redesignated by chapter 2 of this title)
 as paragraphs (8) through (11), respectively; and
 (3) Sections 33, 34, and 35 are repealed.
 (4) Section 36 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a) (as amended by chapters 1 and 2 of this title), by
 striking out paragraphs (5) and (6), by redesignating paragraphs (7) through
 (13) as paragraphs (5) through (10), respectively, and by striking out `(11)'
 in the text preceding paragraph (1) and inserting in lieu thereof `(9)'; and
 (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking out `(9)' and `(8)' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `(7)' and `(6)', respectively.
 (5) Section 41 is repealed.
 (6) Sections 44 and 45 are amended--
 (A) by repealing all of section 45 except the last sentence;
 (B) by amending that sentence by striking out `Except for the laws specified
 in section 44, no' and inserting in lieu thereof `No'; and
 (C) by inserting that sentence at the end of section 44.
 (7) Section 46 is repealed.
SEC. 243. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
 (a) CORRECTION OF CROSS REFERENCES TO INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC IN ARMS
 REGULATIONS-
 (1) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT- Section 505(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961 is amended in the second sentence--
 (A) by striking out `significant defense articles' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `significant military equipment'; and
 (B) by striking out `such defense articles' both places it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `such significant military equipment'.
 (2) ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT- (A) Section 3(a) of the Arms Export Control
 Act is amended in the second sentence following paragraph (4)--
 (i) by striking out `significant defense articles' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `significant military equipment'; and
 (ii) by striking out `such defense articles' both places it appears and
 inserting in lieu `such significant military equipment'.
 (B) Section 36(d) is amended by striking out `combat' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `military'.
 (b) CLERICAL ERRORS IN 1985 AUTHORIZATION ACT- Section 25 of the Arms Export
 Control Act is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d), as added by section 112(b) of the International
 Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985--
 (A) by redesignating that subsection as subsection (e), and
 (B) by striking out the semicolon at the end and inserting in lieu thereof
 a period; and
 (2) in subsection (a)(5)(B), by striking out `(d)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `(e)'.
 (c) CLERICAL ERROR IN 1988 DOD APPROPRIATIONS ACT- Section 38(b)(1)
 of the Arms Export Control Act is amended by redesignating subparagraph
 (B), as enacted by the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1988,
 as subparagraph (C).
CHAPTER 4--TRANSFERS OF SPOILS OF WAR
SEC. 261. SHORT TITLE.
 This chapter may be cited as the `Spoils of War Act of 1991'.
SEC. 262. TRANSFERS OF SPOILS OF WAR.
 (a) ELIGIBILITY FOR TRANSFER- Spoils of war in the possession, custody, or
 control of the United States may be transferred to any other party by sale,
 grant, loan, or in any other manner, only to the extent and in the same
 manner that property of the same type, if otherwise owned by the United
 States, may be so transferred.
 (b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- Any transfer pursuant to subsection (a) shall be
 subject to all of the terms, conditions, and requirements applicable to the
 transfer of property of the same type otherwise owned by the United States.
SEC. 263. CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS.
 Nothing in this chapter shall apply to--
 (1) the abandonment or failure to take possession of spoils of war by troops
 in the field for valid military reasons related to conduct of the immediate
 conflict, including the burden of transporting such property or a decision
 to allow allied forces to take possession of certain property solely for
 use during the immediate conflict;
 (2) the abandonment or return of any property obtained, borrowed, or
 requisitioned for temporary use during military operations without intent
 to retain possession of such property;
 (3) the destruction of spoils of war by troops in the field;
 (4) the return of spoils of war to previous owners from whom such property
 has been seized by enemy forces; or
 (5) minor articles of personal property which have lawfully become the
 property of individual members of the Armed Forces as war trophies pursuant
 to public written authorization from the Department of Defense.
SEC. 264. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this chapter--
 (1) the term `enemy' means any country, government, group, or person that
 has been engaged in hostilities, whether or not lawfully authorized, with
 the United States;
 (2) the term `party' means (A) any government, (B) any natural person, (C)
 any corporation, partnership, or other legal entity, and (D) any organization,
 association, or group;
 (3) the term `relevant congressional committees' means the Committee on
 Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
 the House of Representatives or, where required by law for certain reporting
 purposes, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent
 Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
 (4) the term `spoils of war' means enemy movable property lawfully captured,
 seized, confiscated, or found which has become United States property in
 accordance with the laws of war.
CHAPTER 5--ARMS TRANSFERS RESTRAINT POLICY FOR THE MIDDLE EAST AND PERSIAN
GULF REGION
SEC. 281. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) nations in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region, which accounted for
 over 40 percent of the international trade in weapons and related equipment
 and services during the decade of the 1980's, are the principal market for
 the worldwide arms trade;
 (2) regional instability, large financial resources, and the desire of
 arms-supplying governments to gain influence in the Middle East and Persian
 Gulf region, contribute to a regional arms race;
 (3) the continued proliferation of weapons and related equipment and services
 contribute further to a regional arms race in the Middle East and Persian
 Gulf region that is politically, economically, and militarily destabilizing;
 (4) the continued proliferation of unconventional weapons, including nuclear,
 biological, and chemical weapons, as well as delivery systems associated
 with those weapons, poses an urgent threat to security and stability in
 the Middle East and Persian Gulf region;
 (5) the continued proliferation of ballistic missile technologies and
 ballistic missile systems that are capable of delivering conventional,
 nuclear, biological, or chemical warheads undermines security and stability
 in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region;
 (6) future security and stability in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region
 would be enhanced by establishing a stable military balance among regional
 powers by restraining and reducing both conventional and unconventional
 weapons;
 (7) security, stability, peace, and prosperity in the Middle East and Persian
 Gulf region are important to the welfare of the international economy and
 to the national security interests of the United States;
 (8) future security and stability in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region
 would be enhanced through the development of a multilateral arms transfer and
 control regime similar to those of the Nuclear Suppliers' Group, the Missile
 Technology Control Regime, and the Australia Chemical Weapons Suppliers Group;
 (9) such a regime should be developed, implemented, and agreed to through
 multilateral negotiations, including under the auspices of the 5 permanent
 members of the United Nations Security Council;
 (10) confidence-building arms control measures such as the establishment of a
 centralized arms trade registry at the United Nations, greater multinational
 transparency on the transfer of defense articles and services prior
 to agreement or transfer, cooperative verification measures, advanced
 notification of military exercises, information exchanges, on-site
 inspections, and creation of a Middle East and Persian Gulf Conflict
 Prevention Center, are important to implement an effective multilateral
 arms transfer and control regime;
 (11) as an interim step, the United States should consider introducing,
 during the ongoing negotiations on confidence security-building measures
 at the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), a proposal
 regarding the international exchange of information, on an annual basis,
 on the sale and transfer of military equipment, particularly to the Middle
 East and Persian Gulf region; and
 (12) such a regime should be applied to other regions with the ultimate
 objective of achieving an effective global arms transfer and control regime,
 implemented and enforced through the United Nations Security Council, that--
 (A) includes a linkage of humanitarian and developmental objectives with
 security objectives in Third World countries, particularly the poorest of
 the poor countries; and
 (B) encourages countries selling military equipment and services to consider
 the following factors before making conventional arms sales: the security
 needs of the purchasing countries, the level of defense expenditures by
 the purchasing countries, and the level of indigenous production of the
 purchasing countries.
SEC. 282. MULTILATERAL ARMS TRANSFER AND CONTROL REGIME.
 (a) IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REGIME-
 (1) CONTINUING NEGOTIATIONS- The President shall continue negotiations among
 the 5 permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and commit
 the United States to a multilateral arms transfer and control regime for
 the Middle East and Persian Gulf region.
 (2) PROPOSING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM DURING NEGOTIATIONS- In the context of
 these negotiations, the President should propose to the 5 permanent members
 of the United Nations Security Council a temporary moratorium on the sale
 and transfer of major military equipment to nations in the Middle East and
 Persian Gulf region until such time as the 5 permanent members agree to a
 multilateral arms transfer and control regime.
 (b) PURPOSE OF THE REGIME- The purpose of the multilateral arms transfer
 and control regime should be--
 (1) to slow and limit the proliferation of conventional weapons in the
 Middle East and Persian Gulf region with the aim of preventing destabilizing
 transfers by--
 (A) controlling the transfer of conventional major military equipment;
 (B) achieving transparency among arms suppliers nations through advanced
 notification of agreement to, or transfer of, conventional major military
 equipment; and
 (C) developing and adopting common and comprehensive control guidelines on
 the sale and transfer of conventional major military equipment to the region;
 (2) to halt the proliferation of unconventional weapons, including nuclear,
 biological, and chemical weapons, as well as delivery systems associated
 with those weapons and the technologies necessary to produce or assemble
 such weapons;
 (3) to limit and halt the proliferation of ballistic missile technologies
 and ballistic missile systems that are capable of delivering conventional,
 nuclear, biological, or chemical warheads;
 (4) to maintain the military balance in the Middle East and Persian Gulf
 region through reductions of conventional weapons and the elimination of
 unconventional weapons; and
 (5) to promote regional arms control in the Middle East and Persian Gulf
 region.
 (c) ACHIEVING THE PURPOSES OF THE REGIME-
 (1) CONTROLLING PROLIFERATION OF CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS- In order to achieve
 the purposes described in subsection (b)(1), the United States should
 pursue the development of a multilateral arms transfer and control regime
 which includes--
 (A) greater information-sharing practices among supplier nations regarding
 potential arms sales to all nations of the Middle East and Persian Gulf
 region;
 (B) applying, for the control of conventional major military equipment,
 procedures already developed by the International Atomic Energy Agency,
 the Multilateral Coordinating Committee on Export Controls (COCOM), and
 the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR); and
 (C) other strict controls on the proliferation of conventional major military
 equipment to the Middle East and Persian Gulf region.
 (2) HALTING PROLIFERATION OF UNCONVENTIONAL WEAPONS- In order to achieve
 the purposes described in subsections (b) (2) and (3), the United States
 should build on existing and future agreements among supplier nations by
 pursuing the development of a multilateral arms transfer and control regime
 which includes--
 (A) limitations and controls contained in the Enhanced Proliferation
 Control Initiative;
 (B) limitations and controls contained in the Missile Technology Control
 Regime (MTCR);
 (C) guidelines followed by the Australia Group on chemical and biological
 arms proliferation;
 (D) guidelines adopted by the Nuclear Suppliers Group (the London Group); and
 (E) other appropriate controls that serve to halt the flow of unconditional
 weapons to the Middle East and Persian Gulf region.
 (3) PROMOTION OF REGIONAL ARMS CONTROL AGREEMENTS- In order to achieve the
 purposes described in subsections (b) (4) and (5), the United States should
 pursue with nations in the Middle East and Persian Gulf region--
 (A) the maintenance of the military balance within the region, while
 eliminating nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons and associated delivery
 systems, and ballistic missiles;
 (B) the implementation of confidence-building and security-building
 measures, including advance notification of certain ground and aerial
 military exercises in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf; and
 (C) other useful arms control measures.
 (d) MAJOR MILITARY EQUIPMENT- As used in this chapter, the term `major
 military equipment' means--
 (1) air-to-air, air-to-surface, and surface-to-surface missiles and rockets;
 (2) turbine-powered military aircraft;
 (3) attack helicopters;
 (4) main battle tanks;
 (5) submarines and major naval surface combatants;
 (6) nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons; and
 (7) such other defense articles and defense services as the President
 may determine.
SEC. 283. LIMITATION ON UNITED STATES ARMS SALES TO THE REGION.
 Beginning 60 days after the date of enactment of the International Cooperation
 Act of 1991 or the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992
 and 1993, whichever is enacted first, no sale of any defense article or
 defense service may be made to any nation in the Middle East and Persian
 Gulf region, and no license may be issued for the export of any defense
 article or defense service to any nation in the Middle East and Persian
 Gulf region, unless the President--
 (1) certifies in writing to the relevant congressional committees that the
 President has undertaken good faith efforts to convene a conference for
 the establishment of an arms suppliers regime having elements described in
 section 282; and
 (2) submits to the relevant congressional committees a report setting forth
 a United States plan for leading the world community in establishing such
 a multilateral regime to restrict transfers of advanced conventional and
 unconventional arms to the Middle East and Persian Gulf region.
SEC. 284. REPORTS TO THE CONGRESS.
 (a) QUARTERLY REPORTS- Beginning on January 15, 1992, and quarterly
 thereafter through October 15, 1993, the President shall submit to the
 relevant congressional committees a report--
 (1) describing the progress in implementing the purposes of the multilateral
 arms transfer and control regime as described in section 282(b); and
 (2) describing efforts by the United States and progress made to induce
 other countries to curtail significantly the volume of their arms sales to
 the Middle East and Persian Gulf region, and if such efforts were not made,
 the justification for not making such efforts.
 (b) INITIAL REPORT ON TRANSFERS AND REGIONAL MILITARY BALANCE- Not later
 than 60 days after the date of enactment of the International Cooperation
 Act of 1991 or the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992
 and 1993, whichever is enacted first, the President shall submit to the
 relevant congressional committee a report--
 (1) documenting all transfers of conventional and unconventional arms by
 any nation to the Middle East and Persian Gulf region over the previous
 calendar year and the previous 5 calendar years, including sources, types,
 and recipient nations of weapons;
 (2) analyzing the current military balance in the region, including the
 effect on the balance of transfers documented under paragraph (1);
 (3) describing the progress in implementing the purposes of the multilateral
 arms transfer and control regime as described in section 282(b);
 (4) describing any agreements establishing such a regime; and
 (5) identifying supplier nations that have refused to participate in such
 a regime or that have engaged in conduct that violates or undermines such
 a regime.
 (c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON TRANSFERS AND REGIONAL MILITARY BALANCE- Beginning
 July 15, 1992, and every 12 months thereafter, the President shall submit
 to the relevant congressional committees a report--
 (1) documenting all transfers of conventional and unconventional arms by
 any nation to the Middle East and Persian Gulf region over the previous
 calendar year, including sources, types, and recipient nations of weapons;
 (2) analyzing the current military balance in the region, including the
 effect on the balance of transfer documented under paragraph (1);
 (3) describing the progress in implementing the purposes of the multilateral
 arms transfer and control regime as described in section 282(b); and
 (4) identifying supplier nations that have refused to participate in such
 a regime or that have engaged in conduct that violates or undermines such
 a regime.
SEC. 285. RELEVANT CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DEFINED.
 As used in this chapter, the term `relevant congressional committees' means
 the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
TITLE III--INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 482(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 striking out `$115,000,000 for fiscal year 1990' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `$171,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993'.
SEC. 302. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO CERTAIN AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) POLICY STATEMENT- Section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended by striking out the section designation and section heading and
 subsection (a)(1) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`SEC. 481. POLICY, GENERAL AUTHORITIES, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 `(a) POLICY AND GENERAL AUTHORITIES-
 `(1) STATEMENTS OF POLICY- (A) International narcotics trafficking poses
 an unparalleled transnational threat in today's world, and its suppression
 is among the most important foreign policy objectives of the United States.
 `(B) Under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, and under the
 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
 Psychotropic Substances, 1988, the parties are required to criminalize
 certain drug-related activities, provide appropriately severe penalties,
 and cooperate in the extradition of accused offenders.
 `(C) International narcotics control programs should include, as priority
 goals, the suppression of the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in
 narcotic and psychotropic drugs, money laundering, and precursor chemical
 diversion, and the progressive elimination of the illicit cultivation of
 the crops from which narcotic and psychotropic drugs are derived.
 `(D) The international community should provide assistance, where appropriate,
 to those producer and transit countries which require assistance in
 discharging these primary obligations.
 `(E) Effective international cooperation is necessary to control the illicit
 cultivation, production, and smuggling of, trafficking in, and abuse of
 narcotic and psychotropic drugs.'.
 (b) AUTHORITY TO CONCLUDE AGREEMENTS- Section 481(a)(2) of that Act is amended
 by inserting `, including reciprocal maritime agreements,' after `agreements'.
 (c) COORDINATION OF ALL UNITED STATES ANTINARCOTICS ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN
 COUNTRIES- Section 481(b) of that Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) COORDINATION OF ALL UNITED STATES ANTINARCOTICS ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN
 COUNTRIES-
 `(1) RESPONSIBILITY OF SECRETARY OF STATE- Consistent with subtitle A of
 title I of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, the Secretary of State shall be
 responsible for coordinating all assistance provided by the United States
 Government to support international efforts to combat illicit narcotics
 production or trafficking.
 `(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing contained in this subsection or section
 489(c) shall be construed to limit or impair the authority or responsibility
 of any other Federal agency with respect to law enforcement, domestic security
 operations, or intelligence activities as defined in Executive Order 12333.'.
 (d) MARITIME LAW ENFORCEMENT IN ARCHIPELAGIC WATERS- Section 481(c)(4)
 of that Act is amended by inserting `or archipelagic waters' after `sea'.
 (e) PROCUREMENT OF WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION- Section 482(b) of that Act is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(b) PROCUREMENT OF WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION-
 `(1) PROHIBITION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), funds made available
 to carry out this chapter shall not be made available for the procurement
 of weapons or ammunition.
 `(2) EXCEPTIONS- Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to funds for
 the procurement of--
 `(A) weapons or ammunition provided only for the defensive arming of aircraft
 used for narcotics-related purposes, or
 `(B) firearms and related ammunition provided only for defensive purposes
 to employees or contract personnel of the Department of State engaged in
 activities under this chapter,
if, at least 15 days before obligating those funds, the President notifies
the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures
applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.'.
 (f) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT-
 (1) RETENTION OF TITLE- Section 484 of that Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 484. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
 `(a) RETENTION OF TITLE TO AIRCRAFT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- (A) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any aircraft which
 are made available to a foreign country under this chapter, or are made
 available to a foreign country primarily for narcotics-related purposes under
 any other provision of law, shall be provided only on a lease or loan basis.
 `(B) Subparagraph (A) applies to aircraft made available at any time after
 October 27, 1986 (which was the date of enactment of the International
 Narcotics Control Act of 1986).
 `(2) EXCEPTIONS- (A) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the extent that--
 `(i) the application of that paragraph with respect to particular aircraft
 would be contrary to the national interest of the United States; and
 `(ii) the President notifies the appropriate congressional committees in
 accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
 under section 634A.
 `(B) Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to aircraft made available
 to a foreign country under any provision of law that authorizes property
 that has been civilly or criminally forfeited to the United States to be
 made available to foreign countries.
 `(3) ASSISTANCE FOR LEASING OF AIRCRAFT- (A) For purposes of satisfying
 the requirement of paragraph (1), funds made available for foreign military
 financing assistance may be used to finance the leasing of aircraft under
 chapter 6 of the Arms Export Control Act.
 `(B) Section 61(a)(3) of that Act shall not apply with respect to leases so
 financed; rather the entire cost of any such lease (including any renewals)
 shall be an initial, one time payment of the amount which would be the
 sales price for the aircraft if they were sold under section 21(a)(1)(B)
 or section 22 of that Act (as appropriate).
 `(C) To the extent that aircraft so leased were acquired under chapter 5
 of that Act, funds used pursuant to this paragraph to finance such leases
 shall be credited to the Special Defense Acquisition Fund under chapter 5 of
 that Act (excluding the amount of funds that reflects the charges described
 in section 21(e)(1) of that Act). The funds described in the parenthetical
 clause of the preceding sentence shall be available for payments consistent
 with sections 37(a) and 43(b) of that Act.'.
 (2) PERMISSIBLE USES OF AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT- Chapter 8 of part I
 of that Act is amended--
 (A) by striking out the section designation and section heading of section
 489;
 (B) in subsection (a) of section 489, by striking out `IN GENERAL' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `PERMISSIBLE USES OF AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT';
 (C) in subsection (b) of section 489 by striking out `subsection (e)'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `section 489(a)';
 (D) by redesignating subsections (a) and (b) of section 489 as subsections
 (b) and (c) and by inserting those subsections after subsection (a) of
 section 484 (as amended by paragraph (1) of this subsection); and
 (E) by repealing subsections (c) and (d) of section 489.
 (3) RECORDS OF AIRCRAFT USE- Section 485 of that Act is amended by striking
 out `Secretary of State' both places it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
 `President'.
 (g) REALLOCATION OF FUNDS WITHHELD FROM COUNTRIES WHICH FAIL TO TAKE ADEQUATE
 STEPS TO HALT ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCTION OR TRAFFICKING- Section 486 of that
 Act is amended--
 (1) in the text preceding paragraph (1), by striking out `shall' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `may'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking out `Any such funds not used under
 paragraph (1) shall' and inserting in lieu thereof `In the alternative,
 any such funds may'.
SEC. 303. ANNUAL REPORTING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) REVISION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993- Chapter 8 of
 part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by the preceding
 section of this title, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 489. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993.
 `(a) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT- Not later than April
 1 of each year, the President shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of
 Representatives, and to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate,
 a comprehensive report with respect to all countries which are members of
 the United Nations--
 `(1) on the state of international narcotics production and trafficking,
 money-laundering, and precursor chemical control; and
 `(2) on United States efforts to prevent--
 `(A) the illicit cultivation and manufacture of and trafficking in narcotic
 and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances,
 `(B) the diversion of precursor chemicals, and
 `(C) money laundering.
 `(b) CONTENTS OF REPORT- Each report pursuant to subsection (a) shall
 include the following:
 `(1) For each country that is a member of the United Nations, a report on
 the extent to which the country has--
 `(A) met the goals and objectives of the United Nations Convention Against
 Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, 1988, including
 action on such issues as illicit cultivation, production, distribution, sale,
 transport, and financing, and money laundering, asset seizure, extradition,
 mutual legal assistance, law enforcement and transit cooperation, precursor
 chemical control, and demand reduction;
 `(B) accomplished the goals described in an applicable bilateral narcotics
 agreement with the  United States or a multilateral agreement; and
 `(C) taken legal and law enforcement measures to prevent and punish public
 corruption, especially by senior government officials, that facilitates
 the production, processing, or shipment of narcotic and psychotropic drugs
 and other controlled substances, or that discourages the investigation or
 prosecution of such acts.
 `(2)(A) A description of the policies adopted, agreements concluded,
 and programs implemented by the Department of State in pursuit of its
 delegated responsibilities for international narcotics control, including
 appropriate information on the status of negotiations between the United
 States and other countries on updated extradition treaties, mutual legal
 assistance treaties, precursor chemical controls, money laundering, and
 agreements pursuant to section 2015 of the International Narcotics Act of
 1986 (relating to interdiction procedures for vessels of foreign registry).
 `(B) Information on multilateral and bilateral strategies with respect
 to money laundering pursued by the Department of State, the Department of
 Justice, the Department of the Treasury, and other relevant United States
 Government agencies, either collectively or individually, to ensure the
 cooperation of foreign governments with respect to narcotics-related money
 laundering and to demonstrate that all United States Government agencies are
 pursuing a common strategy with respect to major money laundering countries.
 `(3) The identity of those countries which are--
 `(A) major illicit drug producing countries or major drug-transit countries
 as determined under section 490(h),
 `(B) the significant direct or indirect sources of narcotics and psychotropic
 drugs and other controlled substances significantly affecting the United
 States,
 `(C) major sources of precursor chemicals used in the production of illicit
 narcotics, or
 `(D) major money laundering countries.
 `(4) In addition, for each country identified pursuant to paragraph (3),
 the following:
 `(A) A description of the plans, programs, and timetables adopted by such
 country, including efforts to meet the objectives of the United Nations
 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
 Substances, 1988, and a discussion of the adequacy of the legal and law
 enforcement measures taken and the accomplishments achieved in accord with
 those plans.
 `(B) Whether as a matter of government policy, such country encourages
 or facilitates the illicit production or distribution of narcotic or
 psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances or the laundering of
 proceeds from illegal drug transactions; and whether any senior official
 of the government of such country engages in, encourages, or facilitates
 the illicit production or distribution of such drugs or substances, or the
 laundering of proceeds from illegal drug transactions.
 `(5) In addition, for each country identified pursuant to paragraph (3)(A)
 or (3)(B), a detailed status report, with such information as can be reliably
 obtained, on the narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances
 which are being cultivated, produced, or processed in or transported through
 such country, noting significant changes in conditions, such as increases
 or decreases in the illicit cultivation and manufacture of and traffic in
 such drugs and substances.
 `(6) In addition, for those countries identified pursuant to paragraph
 (3)(C)--
 `(A) which countries are parties to international agreements on a method
 for maintaining records of transactions of an established list of precursor
 and essential chemicals;
 `(B) which countries have established a procedure by which such records
 may be made available to United States law enforcement authorities; and
 `(C) which countries have enacted national chemical control legislation which
 would impose specific recordkeeping and reporting requirements for listed
 chemicals, establish a system of permits or declarations for imports and
 exports of listed chemicals, and authorize government officials to seize
 or suspend shipments of listed chemicals.
 `(7) In addition, for those countries identified pursuant to paragraph
 (3)(D)--
 `(A) which countries have not reached agreement with the United States
 authorities on a mechanism for exchanging adequate records in connection
 with narcotics investigations and proceedings; and
 `(B) which of the countries identified pursuant to subparagraph (A)
 are negotiating in good faith with the United States to establish such a
 record-exchange mechanism, or have adopted laws or regulations that ensure
 the availability to appropriate United States Government personnel of
 adequate records in connection with narcotics investigations and proceedings.
 `(8) In addition, for each country identified pursuant to paragraph (3)(D),
 detailed information on the country's adoption of laws and regulations
 considered essential to prevent narcotics-related money laundering. Such
 information shall include whether a country has--
 `(A) criminalized narcotics money laundering;
 `(B) required financial institutions to record large currency transactions
 at thresholds appropriate to that country's economic situation;
 `(C) required financial institutions to report suspicious transactions;
 `(D) established systems for identifying, tracing, freezing, seizing,
 and forfeiting narcotics-related assets;
 `(E) enacted laws for the sharing of seized narcotics assets with other
 governments; and
 `(F) cooperated when requested with appropriate law enforcement agencies
 of other governments investigating financial crimes related to narcotics.
The report shall also detail instances of refusals to cooperate by foreign
governments, and any actions taken by the United States Government to address
such obstacles, including the imposition of sanctions or penalties.
 `(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- At the time that the report required by subsection (a) is
 submitted each year, the Secretary of State, in consultation with appropriate
 United States Government agencies, shall report to the appropriate committees
 of the Congress on the assistance provided or proposed to be provided by
 the United States Government during the preceding fiscal year, the current
 fiscal year, and the next fiscal year to support international efforts to
 combat illicit narcotics production or trafficking.
 `(2) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED- Each report pursuant to this subsection
 shall--
 `(A) specify the amount and nature of the assistance provided or to be
 provided;
 `(B) include, for each country identified in subsection (b)(3)(A),
 information from the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Customs Service,
 and the Coast Guard describing in detail--
 `(i) the assistance provided or to be provided to such country by that
 agency, and
 `(ii) the assistance provided or to be provided to that agency by such
 country,
with respect to narcotic control efforts during the preceding fiscal year,
the current fiscal year, and the next fiscal year; and
 `(C) list all transfers, which were made by the United States Government
 during the preceding fiscal year, to a foreign country for narcotics
 control purposes of any property seized by or otherwise forfeited to the
 United States Government in connection with narcotics-related activity,
 including an estimate of the fair market value and physical condition of
 each item of property transferred.
 `(3) REPORTS MAY BE CLASSIFIED- The reports required by this subsection
 may be provided on a classified basis to the extent necessary.
 `(d) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `precursor chemical' has the same meaning as the term `listed
 chemical' has under paragraph (33) of section 102 of the Controlled Substances
 Act (21 U.S.C. 902(33)); and
 `(2) the term `major money laundering country' means a country whose financial
 institutions engage in currency transactions involving significant amounts
 of proceeds from international narcotics trafficking.
 `(e) EFFECTIVE DATES OF SECTIONS- This section applies only during fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993. Section 489A does not apply during those fiscal years.
`SEC. 489A. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1993.
 `(a) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT- Not later than March 1 of each year, the
 President shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
 and to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, a report on United
 States policy to establish and encourage an international strategy to
 prevent the illicit cultivation and manufacture of and traffic in narcotic
 and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances.
 `(2) CONTENTS- Each report pursuant to this subsection shall include the
 following:
 `(A) A description of the policies adopted, agreements concluded,
 and programs implemented by the Department of State in pursuit of its
 delegated responsibilities for international narcotics control, including
 policy development, bilateral and multilateral funding and other support
 for international narcotics control projects, representations of the United
 States Government to international organizations and agencies concerned with
 narcotics control, training of foreign enforcement personnel, coordination
 of the international narcotics control activities of United States Government
 agencies, and technical assistance to international demand reduction programs.
 `(B) A description of the activities of the United States in international
 financial institutions to combat the entry of narcotic and psychotropic
 drugs and other controlled substances into the United States for the fiscal
 year just ended, for the current fiscal year, and for the next fiscal year.
 `(C) The identity of those countries which are the significant direct or
 indirect sources of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
 substances significantly affecting the United States. For each such country,
 each report shall include the following:
 `(i) A detailed status report, with such information as can be reliably
 obtained, on the narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances
 which are being cultivated, produced, or processed in or transported through
 such country, noting significant changes in conditions, such as increases
 or decreases in the illicit cultivation and manufacture of and traffic in
 such drugs and substances.
 `(ii) A description of the assistance under this chapter and the other kinds
 of United States assistance which such country received in the preceding
 fiscal year, which are planned for such country for the current fiscal
 year, and which are proposed for such country for the next fiscal year,
 with an analysis of the impact that the furnishing of each such kind of
 assistance has had or is expected to have on the illicit cultivation and
 manufacture of and traffic in narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other
 controlled substances in such country.
 `(iii) A description of the plans, programs, and timetables adopted by
 such country for the progressive elimination of the illicit cultivation
 of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances, and a
 discussion of the adequacy of the legal and law enforcement measures taken
 and the accomplishments achieved in accord with these plans.
 `(iv) A discussion of the extent to which such country has cooperated
 with United States narcotics control efforts through the extradition or
 prosecution of drug traffickers, and, where appropriate, a description of
 the status of negotiations with such country to negotiate a new or updated
 extradition treaty relating to narcotics offenses.
 `(D) For each major illicit drug producing country for which the President
 is proposing to furnish United States assistance for the next fiscal year,
 a determination by the President of the maximum reductions in illicit drug
 production which are achievable during the next fiscal year. Each such
 determination shall be expressed in numerical terms, such as the number of
 acres of illicitly cultivated controlled substances which can be eradicated.
 `(E) For each major illicit drug producing country which received United
 States assistance for the preceding fiscal year, the actual reductions in
 illicit drug production achieved by that country during such fiscal year.
 `(F) Specific comments and recommendations by appropriate Federal agencies
 involved in drug enforcement, including the United States Customs Service
 and the Drug Enforcement Administration, with respect to the degree to
 which countries listed in the report have, during the preceding year,
 cooperated fully with such agencies (as described in section 490A(b)).
 `(G) A description of the United States assistance for the preceding
 fiscal year which was denied, pursuant to section 490 or 490A, to each
 major illicit drug producing country and each major drug-transit country.
 `(b) MIDYEAR REPORT- Not later than September 1 of each year, the President
 shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to the
 Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, a complete and detailed midyear
 report on the activities and operations carried out under this chapter prior
 to such date. Such midyear report shall include the status of each agreement
 concluded prior to such date with other countries to carry out this chapter.
 `(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- At the time that the report required by subsection (a) is
 submitted each year, the Secretary of State, in consultation with appropriate
 United States Government agencies, shall report to the appropriate committees
 of the Congress on the assistance provided by the United States Government
 during the preceding fiscal year to support international efforts to combat
 illicit narcotics production or trafficking.
 `(2) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED- Each report pursuant to this subsection
 shall--
 `(A) specify the amount and nature of the assistance provided;
 `(B) include, for each country which is a significant direct or indirect
 source of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances
 significantly affecting the United States, a section prepared by the Drug
 Enforcement Administration, a section prepared by the Customs Service,
 and a section prepared by the Coast Guard, which describes in detail--
 `(i) the assistance provided or to be provided (as the case may be) to such
 country by that agency, and
 `(ii) the assistance provided or to be provided (as the case may be) to
 that agency by such country,
with respect to narcotic control efforts during the preceding fiscal year,
the current fiscal year, and the next fiscal year; and
 `(C) list all transfers, which were made by the United States Government
 during the preceding fiscal year, to a foreign country for narcotics
 control purposes of any property seized by or otherwise forfeited to the
 United States Government in connection with narcotics-related activity,
 including an estimate of the fair market value and physical condition of
 each item of property transferred.
 `(3) REPORTS MAY BE CLASSIFIED- The reports required by this subsection
 may be provided on a classified basis to the extent necessary.
`SEC. 490. ANNUAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993.
 `(a) WITHHOLDING OF BILATERAL ASSISTANCE AND OPPOSITION TO MULTILATERAL
 DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) BILATERAL ASSISTANCE- Fifty percent of the United States assistance
 allocated each fiscal year in the report required by section 653 for each
 major illicit drug producing country or major drug-transit country (as
 determined under subsection (h)) shall be withheld from obligation and
 expenditure, except as provided in subsection (b). This paragraph shall
 not apply with respect to a country if the President determines that its
 application to that country would be contrary to the national interest of the
 United States, except that any such determination shall not take effect until
 at least 15 days after the President submits written notification of that
 determination to the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with
 the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.
 `(2) MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary of the Treasury shall
 instruct the United States Executive Director of the International Bank
 for Reconstruction and Development, the United States Executive Director
 of the International Development Association, the United States Executive
 Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, and the United States
 Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank to vote, on and after
 April 1 of each year, against any loan or other utilization of the funds
 of their respective institution to or for any major illicit drug producing
 country or major drug-transit country (as determined under subsection (h)),
 except as provided in subsection (b).
 `(b) CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES-
 `(1) WHAT MUST BE CERTIFIED- Subject to subsection (d), the assistance
 withheld from a country pursuant to subsection (a)(1) may be obligated
 and expended, and the requirement of subsection (a)(2) to vote against
 multilateral development bank assistance to a country shall not apply,
 if the President determines and certifies to the Congress, at the time of
 the submission of the report required by section 489(a), that--
 `(A) during the previous year the country has cooperated with the United
 States, or has taken adequate steps on its own, to achieve full compliance
 with the goals and objectives established by the United Nations Convention
 Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances,
 1988; or
 `(B) for a country that would not otherwise qualify for certification under
 subparagraph (A), the vital national interests of the United States require
 that the assistance withheld pursuant to subsection (a)(1) be provided
 and that the United States not vote against multilateral development bank
 assistance for that country pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
 `(2) CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING COOPERATION- In making the determination
 described in paragraph (1)(A), the President shall consider the extent to
 which the country has--
 `(A) met the goals and objectives of the United Nations Convention Against
 Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, 1988, including
 action on such issues as illicit cultivation, production, distribution, sale,
 transport and financing, and money laundering, asset seizure, extradition,
 mutual legal assistance, law enforcement and transit cooperation, precursor
 chemical control, and demand reduction;
 `(B) accomplished the goals described in an applicable bilateral narcotics
 agreement with the United States or a multilateral agreement; and
 `(C) taken legal and law enforcement measures to prevent and punish public
 corruption, especially by senior government officials, that facilitates
 the production, processing, or shipment of narcotic and psychotropic drugs
 and other controlled substances, or that discourages the investigation or
 prosecution of such acts.
 `(3) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN NATIONAL INTEREST CERTIFICATION- If
 the President makes a certification with respect to a country pursuant to
 paragraph (1)(B), the President shall include in such certification--
 `(A) a full and complete description of the vital national interests placed
 at risk if United States bilateral assistance to that country is terminated
 pursuant to this section and multilateral development bank assistance is
 not provided to such country; and
 `(B) a statement weighing the risk described in subparagraph (A) against
 the risks posed to the vital national interests of the United States by
 the failure of such country to cooperate fully with the United States in
 combating narcotics or to take adequate steps to combat narcotics on its own.
 `(c) LICIT OPIUM PRODUCING COUNTRIES- The President may make a certification
 under subsection (b)(1)(A) with respect to a major illicit drug producing
 country, or major drug-transit country, that is a producer of licit opium
 only if the President determines that such country has taken steps to
 prevent significant diversion of its licit cultivation and production
 into the illicit market, maintains production and stockpiles at levels no
 higher than those consistent with licit market demand, and prevents illicit
 cultivation and production.
 `(d) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- Subsection (e) shall apply if, within 45 calendar
 days after receipt of a certification submitted under subsection (b) at the
 time of submission of the report required by section 489(a), the Congress
 enacts a joint resolution disapproving the determination of the President
 contained in such certification.
 `(e) DENIAL OF ASSISTANCE FOR COUNTRIES DECERTIFIED- If the President does
 not make a certification under subsection (b) with respect to a country or
 the Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving such certification, then
 until such time as the conditions specified in subsection (f) are satisfied--
 `(1) funds may not be obligated for United States assistance for that
 country, and funds previously obligated for United States assistance for
 that country may not be expended for the purpose of providing assistance
 for that country; and
 `(2) the requirement to vote against multilateral development bank assistance
 pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to that country,
 without regard to the date specified in that subsection.
 `(f) RECERTIFICATION- Subsection (e) shall apply to a country described in
 that subsection until--
 `(1) the President, at the time of submission of the report required
 by section 489(a), makes a certification under subsection (b)(1)(A) or
 (b)(1)(B) with respect to that country, and the Congress does not enact
 a joint resolution under subsection (d) disapproving the determination of
 the President contained in that certification; or
 `(2) the President, at any other time, makes the certification described
 in subsection (b)(1)(B) with respect to that country, except that this
 paragraph applies only if either--
 `(A) the President also certifies that--
 `(i) that country has undergone a fundamental change in government, or
 `(ii) there has been a fundamental change in the conditions that were
 the reason--
 `(I) why the President had not made a certification with respect to that
 country under subsection (b)(1)(A), or
 `(II) if he had made such a certification and the Congress enacted a joint
 resolution disapproving the determination contained in the certification,
 why the Congress enacted that joint resolution; or
 `(B) the Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the determination
 contained in the certification under subsection (b)(1)(B).
Any certification under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) shall discuss the
justification for the certification.
 `(g) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PROCEDURES-
 `(1) SENATE- Any joint resolution under this section shall be considered
 in the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of the
 International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
 `(2) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES- For the purpose of expediting the consideration
 and enactment of joint resolutions under this section, a motion to proceed
 to the consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported
 by the appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the
 House of Representatives.
 `(h) DETERMINING MAJOR DRUG-TRANSIT AND MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING
 COUNTRIES FOR FISCAL YEARS 1992 AND 1993- Not later than January 1 of each
 year, the President shall notify the appropriate committees of the Congress
 of which countries have been determined to be major drug-transit countries,
 and which countries have been determined to be major illicit drug producing
 countries, for purposes of this Act.
 `(i) EFFECTIVE DATES OF SECTIONS- This section applies only during fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993. During those fiscal years, section 490A does not apply
 and the definitions provided in section 481(e)(2) and (5), as so redesignated
 by section 304(b)(3) of this title, do not apply.
`SEC. 490A. ANNUAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1993.
 `(a) WITHHOLDING OF BILATERAL ASSISTANCE AND OPPOSITION TO MULTILATERAL
 DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) BILATERAL ASSISTANCE- Fifty percent of the United States assistance
 allocated each fiscal year in the report required by section 653 for each
 major illicit drug producing country or major drug-transit country shall be
 withheld from obligation and expenditure, except as provided in subsection
 (b).
 `(2) MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the
 United States Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction
 and Development, the United States Executive Director of the International
 Development Association, the United States Executive Director of the
 Inter-American Development Bank, and the United States Executive Director
 of the Asian Development Bank to vote, on and after March 1 of each year,
 against any loan or other utilization of the funds of their respective
 institution to or for any major illicit drug producing country or major
 drug-transit country, except as provided in subsection (b).
 `(b) CERTIFICATION PROCEDURE-
 `(1) WHAT MUST BE CERTIFIED- Subject to subsection (d), the assistance
 withheld from a country pursuant to subsection (a)(1) may be obligated
 and expended, and the requirement of subsection (a)(2) to vote against
 multilateral development bank assistance to a country shall not apply,
 if the President determines and certifies to the Congress, at the time of
 the submission of the report required by section 489A(a), that--
 `(A) during the previous year the country has cooperated fully with the
 United States, or has taken adequate steps on its own--
 `(i) in satisfying the goals agreed to in an applicable bilateral narcotics
 agreement with the United States (as described in paragraph (2)) or a
 multilateral agreement which achieves the objectives of paragraph (2),
 `(ii) in preventing narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
 substances produced or processed, in whole or in part, in such country
 or transported through such country, from being sold illegally within
 the jurisdiction of such country to United States Government personnel or
 their dependents or from being transported, directly or indirectly, into
 the United States,
 `(iii) in preventing and punishing the laundering in that country of
 drug-related profits or drug-related moneys, and
 `(iv) in preventing and punishing bribery and other forms of public corruption
 which facilitate the production, processing, or shipment of narcotic and
 psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances, or which discourage
 the investigation and prosecution of such acts; or
 `(B) for a country that would not otherwise qualify for certification under
 subparagraph (A), the vital national interests of the United States require
 that the assistance withheld pursuant to subsection (a)(1) be provided
 and that the United States not vote against multilateral development bank
 assistance for that country pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
 `(2) BILATERAL NARCOTICS AGREEMENT- A bilateral narcotics agreement referred
 to in paragraph (1)(A)(i) is an agreement between the United States and
 a foreign country in which the foreign country agrees to take specific
 activities, including, where applicable, efforts to--
 `(A) reduce drug production, drug consumption, and drug trafficking within
 its territory, including activities to address illicit crop eradication
 and crop substitution;
 `(B) increase drug interdiction and enforcement;
 `(C) increase drug treatment;
 `(D) increase the identification of and elimination of illicit drug
 laboratories;
 `(E) increase the identification of, and elimination of trafficking in,
 essential precursor chemicals for use in the illicit production of narcotic
 and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances;
 `(F) increase cooperation with United States drug enforcement officials; and
 `(G) where applicable, increase participation in extradition treaties,
 mutual legal assistance provisions directed at money laundering, sharing
 of evidence, and other initiatives for cooperative drug enforcement.
 `(3) REQUIREMENT FOR NARCOTICS AGREEMENT FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES- A
 country which in the previous year was designated as a major illicit drug
 producing country or a major drug-transit country may not be determined
 to be cooperating fully under paragraph (1)(A) unless it has in place a
 bilateral narcotics agreement with the United States or a multilateral
 agreement which achieves the objectives of paragraph (2).
 `(4) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN CERTIFICATION- If the President makes
 a certification with respect to a country pursuant to paragraph (1)(B),
 the President shall include in such certification--
 `(A) a full and complete description of the vital national interests placed
 at risk if United States bilateral assistance to that country is terminated
 pursuant to this section and multilateral development bank assistance is
 not provided to such country; and
 `(B) a statement weighing the risk described in subparagraph (A) against
 the risks posed to the vital national interests of the United States by
 the failure of such country to cooperate fully with the United States in
 combating narcotics or to take adequate steps to combat narcotics on its own.
 `(5) LICIT OPIUM PRODUCING COUNTRIES- The President may make a certification
 under paragraph (1)(A) with respect to a major illicit drug producing country,
 or major drug-transit country, that is a producer of licit opium only if the
 President determines that such country has taken steps to prevent significant
 diversion of its licit cultivation and production into the illicit market,
 maintains production and stockpiles at levels no higher than those consistent
 with licit market demand, and prevents illicit cultivation and production.
 `(c) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED- In determining whether to make the
 certification required by subsection (b) with respect to a country, the
 President shall consider the following:
 `(1) Have the actions of the government of that country resulted in the
 maximum reductions in illicit drug production which were determined to be
 achievable pursuant to section 489A(a)(2)(D)? In the case of a major illicit
 drug producing country, the President shall give foremost consideration,
 in determining whether to make the determination required by subsection
 (b)(1)(A), to whether the government of that country has taken actions
 which have resulted in such reductions.
 `(2) Has that government taken the legal and law enforcement measures to
 enforce in its territory, to the maximum extent possible, the elimination
 of illicit cultivation and the suppression of illicit manufacturing of
 and trafficking in narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
 substances, as evidenced by seizures of such drugs and substances and of
 illicit laboratories and the arrest and prosecution of violators involved
 in the traffic in such drugs and substances significantly affecting the
 United States?
 `(3) Has that government taken the legal and law enforcement steps necessary
 to eliminate, to the maximum extent possible, the laundering in that country
 of drug-related profits or drug-related moneys, as evidenced by--
 `(A) the enactment and enforcement by that government of laws prohibiting
 such conduct,
 `(B) that government entering into, and cooperating under the terms of,
 mutual legal assistance agreements with the United States governing (but
 not limited to) money laundering, and
 `(C) the degree to which that government otherwise cooperates with United
 States law enforcement authorities on anti-money laundering efforts?
 `(4) Has that government taken the legal and law enforcement steps necessary
 to eliminate, to the maximum extent possible, bribery and other forms of
 public corruption which facilitate the illicit production, processing, or
 shipment of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances,
 or which discourage the investigation and prosecution of such acts, as
 evidenced by the enactment and enforcement of laws prohibiting such conduct?
 `(5) Has that government, as a matter of government policy, encouraged
 or facilitated the illicit production or distribution of narcotic and
 psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances?
 `(6) Does any senior official of that government engage in, encourage,
 or facilitate the illicit production or distribution of narcotic and
 psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances?
 `(7) Has that government investigated aggressively all cases in which
 any member of an agency of the United States Government engaged in drug
 enforcement activities has been the victim, since January 1, 1985, of acts
 or threats of violence, inflicted by or with the complicity of any law
 enforcement or other officer of such country or any political subdivision
 thereof, and energetically sought to bring the perpetrators of such offense
 or offenses to justice?
 `(8) Having been requested to do so by the United States Government, does
 that government fail to provide reasonable cooperation to lawful activities
 of United States drug enforcement agents, including the refusal of permission
 to such agents engaged in interdiction of aerial smuggling into the United
 States to pursue suspected aerial smugglers a reasonable distance into the
 airspace of the requested country?
 `(9) Has that government made necessary changes in legal codes in order to
 enable law enforcement officials to move more effectively against narcotics
 traffickers, such as new conspiracy laws and new asset seizure laws?
 `(10) Has that government expeditiously processed United States extradition
 requests relating to narcotics trafficking?
 `(11) Has that government refused to protect or give haven to any known
 drug traffickers, and has it expeditiously processed extradition requests
 relating to narcotics trafficking made by other countries?
 `(d) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- Subsection (e) shall apply if, within 45 days
 of continuous session (within the meaning of section 601(b)(1) of the
 International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976)
 after receipt of a certification under subsection (b), the Congress enacts
 a joint resolution disapproving the determination of the President contained
 in such certification.
 `(e) DENIAL OF ASSISTANCE FOR COUNTRIES DECERTIFIED- If the President does
 not make a certification under subsection (b) with respect to a country or
 the Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving such certification,
 then until such time as the conditions specified in subsection (f)(1)
 are satisfied--
 `(1) funds may not be obligated for United States assistance for that
 country, and funds previously obligated for United States assistance for
 that country may not be expended for the purpose of providing assistance
 for that country; and
 `(2) the requirement to vote against multilateral development bank assistance
 pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to that country,
 without regard to the date specified in that subsection.
 `(f) RECERTIFICATION-
 `(1) TIME OF RECERTIFICATION; CONGRESSIONAL ACTION- Subsection (e) shall
 apply to a country described in that subsection until--
 `(A) the President makes a certification under subsection (b) with respect
 to that country, and the Congress does not enact a joint resolution under
 subsection (d) disapproving the determination of the President contained
 in that certification; or
 `(B) the President submits, at any other time, a certification described in
 subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (b)(1) with respect to such country,
 and the Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the determination of
 the President contained in that certification.
 `(2) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PROCEDURES- (A) Any joint resolution under this
 section shall be considered in the Senate in accordance with the provisions
 of section 601(b) of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export
 Control Act of 1976.
 `(B) For the purpose of expediting the consideration and enactment
 of joint resolutions under this section, a motion to proceed to the
 consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by
 the appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the
 House of Representatives.
 `(g) DETERMINING MAJOR DRUG-TRANSIT AND MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING
 COUNTRIES AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1993-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF GUIDELINES- For each calendar year, the Secretary of
 State, after consultation with the appropriate committees of the Congress,
 shall establish numerical standards and other guidelines for determining
 which countries will be considered to be major drug-transit countries under
 subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 481(e)(5).
 `(2) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF PRELIMINARY STANDARDS- Not later than September 1
 of each year, the Secretary of State shall make a preliminary determination
 of the numerical standards and other guidelines to be used pursuant to
 paragraph (1) with respect to that year and shall notify the appropriate
 committees of the Congress of those standards and guidelines.
 `(3) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF PRELIMINARY DETERMINATIONS- Not later than
 October 1 of each year, the Secretary of State shall notify the appropriate
 committees of the Congress of--
 `(A) which countries have been determined to be major drug-transit countries
 for that year under the numerical standards and other guidelines developed
 pursuant to this subsection; and
 `(B) which countries have been determined to be major illicit drug producing
 countries for that year.'.
 (b) DEFINITION OF UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE- Paragraph (4) of section 481(i)
 of that Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(4) the term `United States assistance' means--
 `(A) any assistance under this Act (including programs under title IV
 of chapter 2, relating to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation),
 other than--
 `(i) assistance under this chapter,
 `(ii) any other narcotics-related assistance under this part (including
 chapter 4 of part II), but any such assistance provided under this clause
 shall be subject to the prior notification procedures applicable to
 reprogrammings pursuant to section 634A of this Act,
 `(iii) disaster relief assistance, including any assistance under chapter
 9 of this part,
 `(iv) assistance which involves the provision of food (including monetization
 of food) or medicine, and
 `(v) assistance for refugees;
 `(B) sales under the Arms Export Control Act;
 `(C) the provision of agricultural commodities, other than food, under the
 Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954; and
 `(D) financing under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945;'.
SEC. 304. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING PROVISIONS; REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS.
 (a) STATUTORY REFERENCES TO ANNUAL REPORTS AND CERTIFICATIONS- After September
 30, 1993, any reference in any provision of law to section 489 or 490 of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be deemed to be a reference to the
 corresponding provision of section 489A or 490A, respectively, unless the
 content requires otherwise. Any reference in any provision of law enacted
 before the date of enactment of this Act to section 481(e), section 481(h),
 or section 481(i) of that Act shall be deemed to be a reference to section
 489, section 490, or section 481(e), respectively.
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Chapter 8 of part I of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 is amended as follows:
 (1) Section 481(d)(3) is amended by striking out `subsection (e)' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 489(a)'.
 (2) Subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) of section 481 are repealed.
 (3) Subsection (i) of section 481 is amended by striking out `(i) As used
 in this section--' and inserting in lieu thereof `(e) DEFINITIONS- Except as
 provided in sections 490(h) and (i) with respect to the definition of major
 illicit drug producing country and major drug-transit country, for purposes
 of this chapter and other provisions of this Act relating specifically to
 international narcotics matters--'.
 (4) Subsection (d) of section 482 is redesignated as subsection (c) of
 that section.
 (5) Section 486 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) in the text preceding paragraph (1), by striking out `481(h)' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `490'; and
 (ii) in paragraph (1), by repealing the last sentence; and
 (B) in subsection (b)--
 (i) by striking out `grant military assistance program' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `foreign military financing assistance'; and
 (ii) by striking out `, or the Arms Export Control Act (relating to foreign
 military sales financing)'.
 (6) Section 487 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `and the Arms Export Control Act'; and
 (B) by striking out `(as defined in section 481(i)(3) of this Act)'.
 (c) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS-
 (1) 1988 DRUG ACT- The International Narcotics Control Act of 1988 (which is
 title IV of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988) is repealed except for section
 4001, 4306, 4308, 4309, 4501, 4702, and 4804. Section 4501(b) of that Act
 is amended by striking out `section 4601 of this title' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `section 489(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961'.
 (2) 1986 DRUG ACT- The International Narcotics Control Act of 1986 (which
 is title II of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986) is repealed except for
 section 2001, 2010, 2015, 2018, and 2029.
SEC. 305. EXEMPTION OF NARCOTICS-RELATED MILITARY ASSISTANCE FOR FISCAL YEARS
1992 AND 1993 FROM PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
 (a) EXEMPTION- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, section 660 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply with respect to--
 (1) transfers of excess defense articles under section 517 of that Act;
 (2) foreign military financing assistance that is provided for
 narcotics-related purposes; or
 (3) international military education and training that is provided for
 narcotics-related purposes.
 (b) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- At least 15 days before any transfer under
 subsection (a)(1) or any obligation of funds under subsection (a)(2) or
 (a)(3), the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees
 in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
 under section 634A.
 (c) COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM-
 Assistance provided pursuant to this section shall be coordinated with
 international narcotics control assistance.
SEC. 306. WAIVER OF RESTRICTIONS FOR NARCOTICS-RELATED ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.
 For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, narcotics-related assistance under part
 I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be provided notwithstanding
 any provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries if, at
 least 15 days before obligating funds for such assistance, the President
 notifies the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the
 procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.
SEC. 307. EXPORT-IMPORT BANK FINANCING OF ANTINARCOTICS-RELATED SALES OF
DEFENSE ARTICLES OR SERVICES.
 Section 2(b)(6)(B)(vi) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 is amended by
 striking out `1992' and insert in lieu thereof `1994'.
TITLE IV--SPECIAL AUTHORITIES, RESTRICTIONS, REPORTING REQUIREMENTS,
ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS, DEFINITIONS, AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
AND REPEALS
CHAPTER 1--CONTINGENCY AND OTHER SPECIAL AUTHORITIES
SEC. 401. PRESIDENTIAL CONTINGENCY FUND.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to the President, in order to
 meet unanticipated contingencies in the programs within the International
 Affairs Budget Function (150), $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
 and 1993. Amounts appropriated under this section are authorized to remain
 available until expended. Funds appropriated under this section are authorized
 to be made available notwithstanding any other provision of law, except
 that the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees
 at least 15 days before any obligation of such funds in accordance with the
 procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
SEC. 402. DEMOCRACY CONTINGENCY FUND.
 Title IX of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
 amended by title I of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 282. DEMOCRACY CONTINGENCY FUND.
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE- The President is authorized to
 provide assistance for a foreign country under this section if the President
 determines that that country--
 `(1) is emerging as a democracy; or
 `(2) is emerging from civil strife and either has a democratically elected
 government or is making substantial progress toward a democratic form
 of government.
 `(b) PURPOSES OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance under this section shall be provided--
 `(1) in the case of a country described in subsection (a)(1), to encourage
 and facilitate the process of creating and institutionalizing democracy
 and to meet urgent economic and political needs; and
 `(2) in the case of a country described in subsection (a)(2), to meet the
 immediate economic and human needs resulting from the civil strife.
 `(c) AUTHORITIES FOR ASSISTANCE- Assistance under this section may be provided
 in accordance with the authorities applicable to assistance under chapter 4
 of part II (relating to economic support assistance) or any other provision
 of this Act, other than chapter 2 of part II (relating to foreign military
 financing assistance) or chapter 5 of that part (relating to international
 military education and training).
 `(d) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW- If the President
 notifies the appropriate congressional committees at least 15 days in
 advance in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming
 notifications under section 634A, assistance may be provided under this
 section notwithstanding any provision of law that would otherwise prohibit
 such assistance.
 `(e) FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR USE- The authority of this section may be exercised
 with respect to funds made available to carry out any provision of this Act
 for any fiscal year, except that not more than $75,000,000 may be obligated
 in each fiscal year for assistance under this section.'.
SEC. 403. UNANTICIPATED CONTINGENCIES.
 Section 451(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended  by striking
 out `$25,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$45,000,000'.
SEC. 404. TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
 (a) NOTICE TO CONGRESS- Section 610(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
 1961 is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- The authority of subsection (a) may be
 exercised only if the appropriate congressional committees are notified at
 least 15 days in advance of the exercise of that authority in accordance with
 the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Subsection (a) of that section is amended--
 (1) by striking out `pursuant to title IV of chapter 2 of part I' and insert
 in lieu thereof `for the costs of loan or guarantee programs in accordance
 with the requirements of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990'; and
 (2) by striking out `or for section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act'.
SEC. 405. SPECIAL WAIVER AUTHORITY.
 (a) LAWS AFFECTED- Section 614 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is
 amended by striking out subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following:
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO AUTHORIZE ASSISTANCE, SALES, AND OTHER ACTIONS; LIMITATIONS-
 (1) The President may authorize assistance, sales, or other action under
 this Act, the Arms Export Control Act, or any annual (or periodic) foreign
 assistance authorization or appropriations legislation, without regard to any
 of the provisions described in subsection (b) if the President determines,
 and notifies the appropriate congressional committees in writing--
 `(A) with respect to assistance or other actions under chapter 2 or 5
 of part II of this Act, or sales or other actions under the Arms Export
 Control Act, that to do so is vital to the national security interests of
 the United States; and
 `(B) with respect to other assistance or actions that to do so is important
 to the national interests of the United States.
 `(2) The President may waive any provision described in paragraph (1),
 (2), or (3) of subsection (b) that would otherwise prohibit or restrict
 assistance or other action under any provision of law not described in
 those paragraphs if the President determines, and notifies the appropriate
 congressional committees in writing, that to do so is important to the
 national interest of the United States.'.
 (b) ANNUAL CEILING- Section 614(a)(4)(C) of that Act is amended--
 (1) by striking out `$50,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$75,000,000';
 and
 (2) by striking out `victim of active Communist or Communist-support
 aggression' and inserting in lieu thereof `victim of active aggression'.
 (c) LAWS WHICH MAY BE WAIVED- Section 614 of that Act is amended by repealing
 subsections (b) and (c) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(b) LAWS WHICH MAY BE WAIVED- The provisions referred to in subsections
 (a)(1) and (a)(2) are--
 `(1) the provisions of this Act;
 `(2) the provisions of the Arms Export Control Act;
 `(3) the provisions of any annual (or periodic) foreign assistance
 authorization or appropriations legislation, including any amendment made
 by any such Act;
 `(4) any other provision of law that restricts assistance, sales or leases,
 or other action under the Acts referred to in paragraphs (1), (2), or (3); and
 `(5) any law relating to receipts and credits accruing to the United States.'.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 614(a)(4) of that Act is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking out `or the Arms Export Control
 Act'; and
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking out `the Arms Export Control Act
 or under'.
CHAPTER 2--RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE AND EXEMPTIONS FROM RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 411. RESTRICTIONS ON LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE: APPLICABILITY TO
NONFUNDED ASSISTANCE, CONSOLIDATION OF EXCEPTIONS.
 Section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by striking
 out subsections (b), (c), and (d) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(b) EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES, ETC- The prohibition in subsection (a) shall
 be deemed to apply to the furnishing of any assistance that is authorized
 to be provided under this Act without regard to section 632(c) or (d).
 `(c) EXCEPTIONS- The prohibition in subsection (a) does not apply with
 respect to--
 `(1) international narcotics control assistance under chapter 8 of part I;
 `(2) assistance, including training, in maritime law enforcement and other
 maritime skills;
 `(3) assistance for a country which has a longstanding democratic tradition,
 does not have standing armed forces, and does not engage in a consistent
 pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights;
 `(4) assistance in protecting and maintaining wildlife habitats and in
 developing sound wildlife management and plant conservation programs;
 `(5) antiterrorism assistance under chapter 8 of part II;
 `(6) the assistance for law enforcement in Latin America and the Caribbean
 that is authorized by section 534; and
 `(7) other assistance if another provision of law expressly provides that
 the prohibition contained in this section does not apply to such assistance.'.
SEC. 412. CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.
 Part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by title I of
 this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`CHAPTER 5--RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE
`SEC. 691. INELIGIBLE COUNTRIES AND PROJECTS.
 `(a) RESTRICTIONS- Except as provided in subsection (b), assistance under
 this Act may not be furnished to any of the following:
 `(1) COMMUNIST COUNTRIES- A communist country, as designated under subsection
 (c).
 `(2) HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATORS- A country described in subsection (d).
 `(3) EXPROPRIATION OF UNITED STATES PROPERTY- A country whose government--
 `(A) on or after January 1, 1962, has--
 `(i) expropriated the property of any United States person,
 `(ii) repudiated or nullified any contract with any United States person, or
 `(iii) taken any other action (such as discriminatory taxes or other
 exactions) which has the effect of seizing ownership or control of the
 property of any United States person, and
 `(B) has not within a reasonable period of time provided adequate and
 effective compensation and is not engaged in good faith efforts to negotiate
 a settlement, if the United States person has exhausted host country legal
 and other formal remedies.
For purposes of this paragraph, the term `United States person' means a
United States citizen or corporation, partnership, or association at least
50 percent beneficially owned by United States citizens.
 `(4) MILITARY COUPS- A country whose duly-elected head of government is
 deposed by military coup or decree unless subsequent to the military coup
 or decree a democratically-elected government has taken office.
 `(5) COUNTRIES IN ARREARS ON ASSISTANCE REPAYMENTS- The government of any
 country which is more than 1 year in arrears to the United States Government
 on any payment of interest or principal on any loan made or credit extended
 under this Act (or under the former authorities of section 23 of the Arms
 Export Control Act).
 `(6) COMPETITION WITH UNITED STATES EXPORTS- Direct support for any
 project or activity that is specifically designed to increase exports of
 any agricultural, textile, or apparel commodity from a developing country
 if such exports--
 `(A) would be in direct competition with United States exports, and
 `(B) can reasonably be expected to cause substantial injury to United States
 exporters of the same or substantially similar commodity.
 `(7) COUNTRIES THAT EXPORT LETHAL MILITARY EQUIPMENT TO COUNTRIES SUPPORTING
 INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM- A country which provides lethal military equipment
 to a country, the government of which the Secretary of State has determined
 is a terrorist government for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export
 Administration Act of 1979. The prohibition under this paragraph with
 respect to a country shall terminate 12 months after that country ceases
 to provide such military equipment. This paragraph applies with respect to
 lethal military equipment provided under a contract entered into after the
 effective date of this section.
 `(b) EXCEPTIONS-
 `(1) CRITERIA- Assistance restricted by subsection (a), or any similar
 provision of law, may be furnished under either of the following
 circumstances:
 `(A) NATIONAL INTEREST- The President determines that furnishing such
 assistance is important to the national interests of the United States.
 `(B) ALLEVIATING SUFFERING RESULTING FROM A DISASTER- The assistance is
 furnished for the alleviation of suffering resulting from a natural or
 manmade disaster.
 `(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Assistance restricted by subsection (a), or any
 similar provision of law, may not be furnished under this subsection until
 the President has submitted to the appropriate congressional committees
 a report with respect to such assistance. Any such report shall include
 a detailed explanation of the assistance to be provided, including the
 estimated dollar amount of such assistance, and an explanation of how the
 assistance meets the criteria specified in paragraph (1). In the case
 of a report with respect to assistance provided under subparagraph (A)
 of paragraph (1), the report shall be submitted, in accordance with the
 procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A,
 at least 15 days before any funds are obligated for such assistance.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY TO OTHER RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES- With respect to the
 restrictions imposed pursuant to subsection (d)(3) or any other provision
 of law to which this subsection applies, references in this subsection
 to furnishing assistance shall be deemed to include the taking of other
 actions that, but for this subsection, would be restricted by such provision.
 `(c) COMMUNIST COUNTRY LIST-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The President shall designate those countries that are
 Communist countries for purposes of subsection (a)(1).
 `(2) PUBLICATION OF LIST- The initial list of countries designated pursuant
 to this subsection shall be published in the Federal Register and shall
 be provided to the appropriate congressional committees. Thereafter,
 any additions to or deletions from such list shall be similarly published
 and provided.
 `(3) REMOVAL OF COUNTRIES FROM THE LIST; EXEMPTIONS- The President may
 remove a country from the Communist country list established pursuant to
 this subsection, or may exempt a listed country from the application of
 subsection (a)(1) or other provisions of law that reference subsection
 (a)(1), if the President promptly reports such removal or exemption to the
 appropriate congressional committees.
 `(4) CONFORMING CROSS REFERENCES- Any generic reference in any provision
 of law enacted before the date of enactment of this section to countries
 listed under section 620(f) shall be deemed to refer to countries listed
 pursuant to this subsection.
 `(d) HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATORS-
 `(1) INELIGIBILITY- Subsection (a)(2) shall apply to any country the
 government of which engages in a consistent pattern of gross violations of
 internationally recognized human rights.
 `(2) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED- In implementing subsection (a)(2),
 consideration shall be given to the following:
 `(A) The relevant findings of appropriate international organizations and
 nongovernmental organizations.
 `(B) The extent of cooperation by the government in question in permitting
 an unimpeded investigation by indigenous nongovernmental organizations,
 other nongovernmental organizations, and international organizations (such
 as the International Committee of the Red Cross), of alleged violations of
 internationally recognized human rights.
 `(C) Specific actions that have been taken by the President or the Congress
 relating to the human rights practices of the government in question.
 `(3) RELATED RESTRICTIONS- Subsection (a)(2) shall be deemed to prohibit,
 in addition to the furnishing of assistance under this Act--
 `(A) sales of defense articles, defense services, or design and construction
 services under the Arms Export Control Act;
 `(B) licenses under section 38 of that Act with respect to the export of
 defense articles or defense services to or for the armed forces, police,
 intelligence, or other internal security forces of a foreign country; and
 `(C) licenses required under the Export Administration Act of 1979 for the
 export of crime control and detection instruments and equipment.
 `(e) VALUATION OF EXPROPRIATED PROPERTY- If the President requests such
 an evaluation, the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission is authorized
 to evaluate the value of the property which is the subject of an action
 described in subsection (a)(3) and render an advisory report with respect
 to the value of such property to the President.'.
SEC. 413. EXEMPTIONS FROM RESTRICTIONS.
 (a) ASSISTANCE THROUGH NGOS AND ASSISTANCE TO ADDRESS CERTAIN SPECIAL
 DEVELOPMENTAL NEEDS- Chapter 5 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961, as added by the preceding section of this title, is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 692. EXEMPTION FOR NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS FROM RESTRICTIONS
OF ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) RESTRICTIONS NOT APPLICABLE- Restrictions contained in this or any
 other Act with respect to assistance for a country shall not be construed to
 restrict assistance under part I in support of programs of nongovernmental
 organizations.
 `(b) CRITERIA- The President shall take into consideration, in any case in
 which a restriction on assistance would be applicable but for this section,
 whether assistance for programs of nongovernmental organizations directly
 benefits the poor people, directly promotes increased respect for human
 rights and the development of democracy, or otherwise is in the national
 interest of the United States.
 `(c) NOTICE TO CONGRESS- The President shall notify promptly the appropriate
 congressional committees with respect to each use of the authority of
 this section to furnish assistance for a program of a nongovernmental
 organization. Such notification shall describe the program to be assisted,
 the assistance to be provided, and the reasons for furnishing such assistance.
`SEC. 693. EXEMPTION FROM PROHIBITIONS FOR ASSISTANCE TO ADDRESS CERTAIN
SPECIAL NEEDS.
 `(a) EXEMPTION FROM PROHIBITIONS- Notwithstanding any provision of law that
 restricts foreign assistance to foreign countries except those provisions
 described in subsection (b), funds made available for assistance under
 chapter 1 or chapter 10 of part I or under chapter 4 of part II may be used
 to support activities described in--
 `(1) section 102B(1) (relating to assistance to meet the needs of individuals
 with disabilities);
 `(2) section 102B(2) (relating to assistance to address the needs of
 displaced children);
 `(3) section 104(c)(2) (relating to child survival activities);
 `(4) section 104(c)(3) (relating to immunization and oral rehydration);
 `(5) section 104(c)(4) (relating to the prevention and control of acquired
 immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS));
 `(6) section 106(d) (relating to environmentally sound, sustainable resource
 management); or
 `(7) section 106(e) (relating to more efficient energy systems).
 `(b) EXCEPTIONS- Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to--
 `(1) section 620A or any comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance
 to countries that support international terrorism; or
 `(2) section 691(a)(2) or any comparable provision of law prohibiting
 assistance to countries that violate internationally recognized human
 rights.'.
 (b) ACTIVITIES UNDER CERTAIN LAWS NOT AFFECTED- Section 638(a) of that Act
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) ACTIVITIES UNDER CERTAIN LAWS NOT AFFECTED- Unless expressly provided
 to the contrary, provisions of this Act and other provisions applicable to
 foreign assistance shall not be construed to prohibit activities authorized by
 or conducted under the Peace Corps Act, the Mutual Educational and Cultural
 Exchange Act of 1961, the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, the Agricultural
 Act of 1949, the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954,
 the Food for Progress Act of 1985, the Inter-American Foundation Act, the
 African Development Foundation Act, or the Migration and Refugee Assistance
 Act of 1962, or commercial export promotion activities of the Department
 of Agriculture (including the Commodity Credit Corporation).'.
 (c) EXEMPTION OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES FROM CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS- Section
 638(b) of that Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) EXEMPTION OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES FROM CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS- Provisions
 of this or any other Act shall not be construed to prohibit assistance
 for any training activity funded under this Act for a country as long as
 that country has a democratically elected government and the assistance is
 otherwise consistent with--
 `(1) section 490 (relating to the annual narcotics cooperation certification
 process);
 `(2) section 620A (relating to countries that support international
 terrorism);
 `(3) section 660 (relating to police training);
 `(4) section 691(a)(1) (relating to communist countries); and
 `(5) section 691(a)(2) (relating to human rights violators).'.
CHAPTER 3--REPORTS
SEC. 421. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY AND REPORTS.
 (a) CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS- Title IX of chapter 2 of part
 I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by title I of this Act
 and chapter 1 of this title, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 283. HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY AND REPORTS.
 `(a) PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS- The United States shall, in accordance with
 its international obligations as set forth in the Charter of the United
 Nations and in keeping with the constitutional heritage and traditions of the
 United States, promote and encourage increased respect for human rights and
 fundamental freedoms throughout the world without distinction as to race,
 sex, language, or religion. Accordingly, a principal goal of the foreign
 policy of the United States shall be to promote the increased observance
 of internationally recognized human rights by all countries.
 `(b) CONDUCT OF ASSISTANCE AND MILITARY SALES PROGRAMS- In furtherance of
 subsection (a), the President shall formulate and conduct United States
 assistance and military sales programs in a manner which will--
 `(1) promote and advance human rights;
 `(2) strengthen a relationship between civilian and military sectors
 appropriate to a democratic system of government; and
 `(3) avoid identification of the United States, through these programs,
 with governments which deny to their people internationally recognized
 human rights and fundamental freedoms in violation of international law or
 in contravention of the policy of the United States as expressed in this
 section or otherwise.
 `(c) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED- In carrying out subsection (b) and in preparing
 the annual reports required by subsection (d) and any special report submitted
 pursuant to subsection (e), consideration shall be given to the following:
 `(1) The relevant findings of appropriate international organizations and
 nongovernmental organizations.
 `(2) The extent of cooperation by the government in question in permitting
 an unimpeded investigation by indigenous nongovernmental organizations,
 other nongovernmental organizations, and international organizations (such
 as the International Committee of the Red Cross) of alleged violations of
 internationally recognized human rights.
 `(d) ANNUAL HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT- In furtherance of subsections (a) and (b),
 the President shall transmit to the Congress, not later than February 28
 each year, a full and complete report with respect to practices regarding
 the observance of and respect for internationally recognized human rights
 in every foreign country. Wherever applicable, such reports shall include
 information on practices regarding coercion in population control, including
 coerced abortion and involuntary sterilization.
 `(e) SPECIAL REPORTS- Upon the request of the Committee on Foreign
 Relations of the Senate or the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
 of Representatives, the President should, within 30 days after receipt of
 such request, transmit to both committees a special report with respect to
 the country designated in such request. The report shall set forth--
 `(1) all information, which has become available since submission of the
 last report under subsection (d), with respect to the matters described in
 subsections (f)(1) and (2);
 `(2) the steps the United States has taken to--
 `(A) promote respect for and observance of human rights in the country in
 question and discourage any practices which are inimical to internationally
 recognized human rights;
 `(B) publicly or privately call attention to such practices;
 `(C) disassociate the United States, and any United States assistance or
 military sales provided for such country, from such practices; and
 `(3) such other information as the committee may request.
 `(f) INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED- Each annual report under subsection (d),
 and each special report pursuant to subsection (e), shall include--
 `(1) all information available about observance of and respect for human
 rights and fundamental freedom in the country in question, and
 `(2) a detailed description of practices by the recipient government with
 respect to human rights and fundamental freedom, including information
 provided by appropriate organizations, including nongovernmental
 organizations.
 `(g) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
 `(1) the term `assistance' means any assistance authorized by this Act; and
 `(2) the term `military sales' means--
 `(A) sales of defense articles, defense services, and design and construction
 under the Arms Export Control Act; and
 `(B) licenses under section 38 of that Act with respect to the export of
 defense articles or defense services to or for the armed forces, police,
 intelligence, or other internal security forces of a foreign country.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 624(f) of that Act (relating to the
 duties of the Assistant Secretary of State For Human Rights) is amended--
 (1) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by inserting `civilians and noncombatants
 in situations of armed conflict,' after `refugees,';
 (2) by repealing the last sentence of paragraph (1); and
 (3) in paragraph (2)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `to which the requirements of
 sections 116 and 502B of this Act are relevant';
 (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking out `502B' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `283';
 (C) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E); and
 (D) by striking out subparagraph (C) and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
 `(C) making recommendations to the Secretary of State and the administrator
 of the agency primarily responsible for administering part I regarding
 compliance with sections 283 and 691(a)(2);
 `(D) as part of the Assistant Secretary's overall policy responsibility
 for the creation of United States Government human rights policy, advising
 the administrator on the policy framework under which assistance under
 paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 281(b) will be developed, and consulting
 with the administrator on the selection and implementation of programs and
 activities assisted under those paragraphs; and'.
SEC. 422. CONGRESSIONAL PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS FOR ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.
 (a) ANNUAL SUBMISSIONS- Section 634 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 634. CONGRESSIONAL PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS FOR ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMISSION- The President shall prepare, and submit
 to the appropriate congressional committees in a timely manner, annual
 congressional presentation documents for economic assistance programs under
 part I.
 `(b) MATERIALS FOR DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE- For
 development assistance and economic support assistance the documents
 submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
 `(1) The rationale for the allocation of assistance to each country, regional
 program, or centrally funded program. In the case of economic support
 assistance, this rationale shall include a justification for the provision
 of economic support assistance and for the particular use of that assistance.
 `(2) A brief description of each country program, regional program, and
 centrally funded program, including--
 `(A) in the case of development assistance, a discussion of how each program
 supports, as appropriate, the four basic objectives set forth in section
 102 of this Act; and
 `(B) in the case of economic support assistance, a discussion of the
 extent to which each program supports the four basic objectives set forth
 in section 102.
 `(3) A description of new activities to be undertaken in the coming fiscal
 year.
 `(c) DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA- The documents submitted pursuant to
 subsection (a) shall include a description of the progress made during the
 previous fiscal year in carrying out chapter 10 of part I in three countries
 in sub-Saharan Africa which represent differing economic situations and
 levels of progress. The description shall include--
 `(1) the nature and extent of consultation to ensure local perspectives,
 as described in subsections (e)(1) and (f) of section 496;
 `(2) the degree of involvement of local people in the implementation of
 projects having a local focus;
 `(3) the extent to which there has been expansion of the participation and
 integration of African women in each of the critical sectors specified in
 section 496(i);
 `(4) program assistance provided, including the amounts obligated, the
 criteria used for assisting reforms, and the provisions made pursuant to
 section 496(h)(2)(B) to protect vulnerable groups from possible negative
 consequences of the reforms; and
 `(5) a description of the assistance for the critical sector priorities
 specified in section 496(i), by sector, including the amounts obligated.
 `(d) OTHER ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS- The documents submitted pursuant
 to subsection (a) shall include for each economic assistance program (other
 than those programs specified in subsections (b) and (c))--
 `(1) a summary of program activities for the previous year; and
 `(2) a description of activities anticipated in the current fiscal year
 and the coming fiscal year.
 `(e) REPORT ON UNEXPENDED BALANCES- For development assistance, assistance
 under the Multilateral Assistance Initiative for the Philippines, assistance
 from the Development Fund for Africa, and economic support assistance,
 the documents submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall include--
 `(1) an identification of any funds that, as of September 30 of the preceding
 fiscal year, had been obligated for a period of 5 years or more but had
 not been expended; and
 `(2) with respect to each project or other activity for which such funds
 remain unexpended, the justification for such funds not having been expended.
 `(f) REPORT ON CHILD SURVIVAL AND BASIC EDUCATION- In conjunction with the
 submission of the documents pursuant to subsection (a), the President shall
 submit to the Congress a report describing--
 `(1) United States contributions to the achievement of the goals and
 strategies enunciated in the World Declaration on the Survival, Protection
 and Development of Children; the Plan of Action for Implementing the World
 Declaration on the Survival, Protection and Development of Children; the
 World Declaration on Education for All; and the Framework for Action to
 Meet Basic Learning Needs;
 `(2) the progress achieved during the preceding fiscal year in carrying
 out section 104(c)(3); and
 `(3) the funding provided for child survival activities and for basic
 education under United States foreign assistance programs for the current
 fiscal year and the preceding fiscal year, as well as the planned funding
 levels for the next fiscal year and (to the extent feasible) for subsequent
 fiscal years.
 `(g) ADDITIONAL MATERIALS- In conjunction with the submission of the
 documents pursuant to subsection (a), the President shall submit to the
 Congress a report which sets forth the following:
 `(1) The dollar value of all foreign assistance, by category and by country,
 furnished by the United States Government by any means to each foreign
 country and international organization--
 `(A) from 1946 to the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in
 which the report is submitted;
 `(B) as obligated during the immediately preceding fiscal year;
 `(C) as presented for the fiscal year in which the report is submitted; and
 `(D) as proposed for the fiscal year following the year in which the report
 is submitted.
 `(2) A summary of the net aid flow from the United States to each country,
 taking into consideration the repayments to the United States from previous
 foreign assistance loans and the debt relief granted by the United States.
 `(3) The status of the debt servicing capacity of each country receiving
 assistance under part I, and a statement summarizing the debt relief
 granted to each country by the United States and the purpose for which it
 was granted.'.
 (b) REPORT BY INSPECTOR GENERAL REGARDING UNEXPENDED BALANCES- As soon
 as possible after the submission to the Congress of the congressional
 presentation documents for fiscal year 1994, the Inspector General for the
 agency primarily responsible for administering part I shall submit to the
 appropriate congressional committees--
 (1) such comments as the Inspector General considers appropriate with regard
 to the justifications provided pursuant to section 634(e)(2) of that Act
 (as amended by this section) regarding unexpended balances, and
 (2) such recommendations as the Inspector General considers appropriate
 with respect to such unexpended balances.
SEC. 423. NOTIFICATION OF PROGRAM CHANGES.
 Section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 634A. NOTIFICATION OF PROGRAM CHANGES.
 `(a) INCREASED ASSISTANCE AND NEW PROGRAMS- Unless the appropriate
 congressional committees are notified at least 15 days in advance, funds
 appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this Act may not be obligated
 for the following:
 `(1) INCREASE IN ASSISTANCE LEVEL- Any assistance under any provision of
 this Act--
 `(A) for a country or international organization for which assistance under
 that provision was not justified in congressional presentation documents
 for that fiscal year, or
 `(B) in excess of the amount justified in the congressional presentation
 documents and allocated pursuant to section 653(a) for that country or
 organization under that provision for that fiscal year.
 `(2) NEW ACTIVITIES- Any economic assistance for a program, project, or
 activity under any provision of this Act--
 `(A) which was not justified in congressional presentation documents for
 that fiscal year; and
 `(B) for which assistance was not furnished for the preceding fiscal year.
 `(b) CONGRESSIONAL PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS- For purposes of this section, the
 term `congressional presentation documents' means the annual congressional
 presentation documents for assistance under this Act or the justification
 documents accompanying a request for supplemental authorizations of
 appropriations or supplemental appropriations for assistance under this Act.
 `(c) APPROPRIATIONS SUBJECT TO REQUIREMENT- Subsection (a) applies with
 respect to all funds appropriated for assistance under this Act (including
 international narcotics control assistance) other than--
 `(1) assistance under section 221 (relating to the housing and other credit
 guarantee program),
 `(2) assistance under title IV of chapter 2 of part I (relating to the
 Overseas Private Investment Corporation),
 `(3) assistance for programs of disaster relief and rehabilitation, including
 international disaster assistance programs under chapter 9 of part I,
 `(4) assistance from the Development Fund for Africa, and
 `(5) assistance under section 661 (relating to the Trade and Development
 Agency).
 `(d) EMERGENCY EXCEPTIONS-
 `(1) WAIVER- Subject to paragraph (2), the President may waive the
 requirement of subsection (a), or any similar requirement contained in
 foreign assistance authorization or appropriations legislation to provide
 advance notification to the Congress or specified congressional committees,
 if the President determines that failure to do so would pose a substantial
 risk to human health or welfare.
 `(2) EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY- Before exercising the authority of this
 subsection, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional
 committees, the Congress, or the specified congressional committees (as
 the case may be). Any notification under this paragraph shall contain an
 explanation of the circumstances necessitating the use of the authority of
 this subsection.'.
SEC. 424. ANNUAL ALLOCATION REPORTS.
 Section 653(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting
 `for a period of less than 90 days' after `continuing appropriations'.
CHAPTER 4--ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 431. USE OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
 Section 601 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 601. USE OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In order to encourage and facilitate participation by
 private enterprise to the maximum extent practicable in achieving any of
 the purposes of this Act, the President shall--
 `(1) to the maximum extent practicable carry out programs of assistance
 through private channels and, to the extent practicable, in conjunction
 with local private or governmental participation;
 `(2) utilize wherever practicable the services of United States private
 enterprise to provide the necessary skills to develop and implement a
 specific project or program of assistance, and provide where appropriate
 for the transfer of equity ownership in such project or program to private
 investors at the earliest feasible time.
 `(b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- In providing technical assistance under this
 Act, the President shall utilize, to the fullest extent practicable,
 goods and professional and other services from private enterprise on a
 contract basis. The facilities and resources of agencies of the United
 States Government which do not administer programs under this Act may be
 utilized when such facilities are particularly or uniquely suitable for
 technical assistance, are not competitive with private enterprise, and can
 be made available without interfering unduly with domestic programs.
 `(c) MILITARY ASSISTANCE- The Secretary of Defense shall assure that there
 is made available to suppliers in the United States, and particularly to
 small independent enterprises, information with respect to purchases made
 by the Department of Defense pursuant to part II. Such information shall
 be furnished as far in advance as possible.'.
SEC. 432. PROCUREMENT.
 Section 604 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 604. PROCUREMENT.
 `(a) LIMITATIONS ON PROCUREMENT OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES- Funds made
 available for assistance under this Act may be used for procurement--
 `(1) in the United States, the recipient country, or a developing country; or
 `(2) in any other country but only if--
 `(A) the provision of such assistance requires commodities or services,
 or defense articles or defense services, of a type that are not produced
 in and available for purchase in any country specified in paragraph (1); or
 `(B) the President determines, on a case-by-case basis, that procurement
 in such other country is necessary--
 `(i) to meet unforeseen circumstances, such as emergency situations, where
 it is important to permit procurement in a country not specified in paragraph
 (1), or
 `(ii) to promote efficiency in the use of United States foreign assistance
 resources, including to avoid impairment of foreign assistance objectives.
 `(b) PROCUREMENT METHOD FOR INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION- The President
 may establish separate procurement standards and procedures for projects
 under part I to limit competition to a selection among institutions of
 higher education when the projects would benefit substantially from the
 resources and special capabilities of such institutions.'.
SEC. 433. REIMBURSABLE PROGRAMS.
 Section 607(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding
 after paragraph (2) the following:
`Limitations on assistance in this or any other Act do not apply with respect
to this subsection.'.
SEC. 434. SPECIAL ACCOUNTS FOR AND USE OF HOST-COUNTRY OWNED LOCAL CURRENCY.
 Section 609 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 609. SPECIAL ACCOUNTS FOR AND USE OF HOST-COUNTRY OWNED LOCAL CURRENCY.
 `(a) SPECIAL ACCOUNT- If assistance is furnished to the government of a
 foreign country under part I under arrangements which will result in the
 generation of local currencies of that country, the President shall--
 `(1) require that local currencies be deposited in a special account
 established by that government;
 `(2) enter into an agreement with that government which sets forth--
 `(A) the amount of the local currencies to be so generated, and
 `(B) the terms and conditions under which the currencies so deposited may
 be utilized, consistent with this section; and
 `(3) establish by agreement with that government the responsibilities of the
 agency primarily responsible for administering part I and that government
 to monitor and account for deposits into and disbursements from the special
 account.
 `(b) USES OF LOCAL CURRENCIES- As may be agreed upon with the foreign
 government, local currencies deposited in a special account pursuant to
 subsection (a), or an equivalent amount of local currencies, shall be
 used only--
 `(1) to carry out part I for such purposes as project or sector assistance
 activities or debt and deficit financing, or
 `(2) for the administrative requirements of the United States Government.
 `(c) PROGRAMMING ACCOUNTABILITY- The agency primarily responsible for
 administering part I shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that the
 equivalent of the local currencies disbursed pursuant to subsection (b)(1)
 from the special account established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are used
 for the purposes agreed upon pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
 `(d) TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS- Upon termination of assistance to
 a country under part I, any unencumbered balances of funds which remain in
 a special account established pursuant to subsection (a) shall be disposed
 of for such purposes as may be agreed to by the government of that country
 and the United States Government.
 `(e) REQUIREMENTS NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN PROGRAMS- This section does
 not apply with respect to chapter 8 of part I or chapter 6 or 8 of part II.'.
SEC. 435. AUTHORITY FOR EXTENDED PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) UNIFORMITY OF AUTHORITY- Section 616 of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961 is amended by adding at the end the following: `Unless otherwise
 specified, amounts appropriated to carry out this Act are authorized to be
 made available, in appropriations Acts, until expended.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- That Act is amended--
 (1) in section 214(c), by striking out `(1)' and by repealing paragraph (2);
 (2) in section 482(a)  by striking out `(1)' and by repealing paragraph (2);
 (3) in section 491, by repealing the last sentence;
 (4) in section 497, by striking out the first sentence and in the second
 sentence by striking out `subsection' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `section 616';
 (5) in section 552, by repealing subsection (b), by redesignating subsections
 (c) and (d) as subsections (b) and (c), respectively, and in subsection (c)
 as so redesignated by striking out `(c)(2)' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `(b)(2)'; and
 (6) in section 575, by striking out `(a)' and by striking out subsection (b).
SEC. 436. TERMINATION EXPENSES.
 Section 617 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 617. TERMINATION EXPENSES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Funds made available under this Act shall remain available
 for obligation for a period not to exceed 8 months from the date of any
 termination of assistance under this Act for the necessary expenses of winding
 up programs related to such termination. Funds obligated under the authority
 of this Act prior to the effective date of the termination of assistance may
 remain available for expenditure for the necessary expenses of winding up
 programs related to such termination notwithstanding any provision of law
 restricting the expenditure of funds. In order to ensure the effectiveness
 of assistance under this Act, such expenses for orderly termination of
 programs may include the obligation and expenditure of funds to complete
 the training or studies outside their countries of origin of students whose
 course of study or training program began before assistance was terminated.
 `(b) LIABILITY TO CONTRACTORS- For the purpose of making an equitable
 settlement of termination claims under extraordinary contractual relief
 standards, the President is authorized to adopt as a contract or other
 obligation of the United States Government, and assume (in whole or in part)
 any liabilities arising thereunder, any contract with a United States or
 third-country contractor that had been funded with assistance under this
 Act prior to the termination of assistance.
 `(c) GUARANTY PROGRAMS- Provisions of this or any other Act requiring the
 termination of assistance under this Act shall not be construed to require
 the termination of guarantee commitments that were entered into prior to
 the effective date of the termination of assistance.
 `(d) RELATION TO OTHER PROVISIONS- Unless specifically made inapplicable by
 another provision of law, the provisions of this section shall be applicable
 to the termination of assistance pursuant to any provision of law.'.
SEC. 437. INTEREST ON LOCAL CURRENCY ACCRUING TO NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS.
 Chapter 1 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 617 the following:
`SEC. 618. INTEREST ON LOCAL CURRENCY ACCRUING TO NONGOVERNMENTAL
ORGANIZATIONS.
 `A nongovernmental organization may invest local currencies which accrue
 to that organization as a result of assistance provided under part I of
 this Act, the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954,
 section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, or the Food for Progress
 Act of 1985, and any interest earned on such investment may be used for
 the purpose for which the assistance was provided to that organization
 (including for the establishment of an endowment).'.
SEC. 438. EXEMPTIONS FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS RESTRICTING THE AVAILABILITY
OF FUNDS.
 Chapter 1 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 618, as added by the preceding section of this title,
 the following:
`SEC. 619. EXEMPTIONS FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS RESTRICTING THE AVAILABILITY
OF FUNDS.
 `(a) CRITERIA FOR EXEMPTIONS- Funds authorized to be appropriated to carry
 out any provision of this Act may be made available by the President without
 regard to any provision of law described in subsection (b) if--
 `(1) the President determines that compliance with such provision is made
 impossible by operation of law, or
 `(2) the President determines, after consultation with the appropriate
 congressional committees, that the country or organization for which such
 funds would have been made available has significantly reduced its military
 or economic cooperation with the United States during the preceding 12
 month period.
 `(b) PROVISIONS WAIVABLE- The provisions of law to which subsections (a)(1)
 and (a)(2) apply are--
 `(1) any provision requiring that a specified amount of funds appropriated to
 carry out any provision of this Act shall be available only for a particular
 country, organization, or purpose; and
 `(2) any provision that authorizes the appropriation of a specified amount
 of funds expressly for a particular country, organization, or purpose.
 `(c) EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES- This section does not apply with
 respect to funds specified for Israel or Egypt.'.
SEC. 439. REQUIREMENT OF SENATE CONFIRMATION FOR SPECIFIC POSITIONS IN THE
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
 Section 624(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) No appointment pursuant to paragraph (1) may be made to a position
 within the agency primarily responsible for administering part I of this Act
 unless the appointee has been nominated for a specific position and the Senate
 has given its advice and consent to the appointment to that same position.'.
SEC. 440. PERSONNEL DETAILED TO THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
 Chapter 2 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 630 the following:
`SEC. 630A. PERSONNEL DETAILED TO ADMINISTERING AGENCY FOR PART I.
 `(a) REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS- Funds made available to carry out part I may be
 used to reimburse an agency of the United States Government, an agency of a
 State government, a private and voluntary organization, or an institution
 of higher education for the full costs of any employee which that agency
 or institution details or assigns to the agency primarily responsible for
 administering part I to carry out programs under that part that require
 specialized technical skills.
 `(b) PERSONNEL CEILINGS- Employees so detailed or assigned shall not be
 included within any personnel ceiling applicable to any agency of the United
 States Government during the period of detail or assignment.'.
SEC. 441. FUNDS ALLOCATED TO THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK AND THE OVERSEAS PRIVATE
INVESTMENT CORPORATION.
 Section 632(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(f)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) Loans, guaranties, or investments made by the Overseas Private Investment
 Corporation with funds--
 `(A) allocated under subsection (a) of this section or transferred from
 other sources (public or private), or
 `(B) received in foreign currency by the Corporation as a result of insurance
 activities conducted pursuant to section 234(a) of this Act,
shall not be considered in determining whether the Corporation has made
or has outstanding loans, guaranties, or investments to the extent of any
limitation on obligations, commitments, and equity investments imposed by
or pursuant to this Act.
 `(3) The provisions of section 504(b) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990
 shall not apply to direct loan obligations or loan guarantee commitments,
 including insurance provided under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945,
 made with funds described--
 `(A) in paragraphs (1) or (2)(A) of this subsection to the extent that
 an amount equivalent to their cost (as defined in section 502(5) of the
 Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990) is transferred to the associated financing
 account established pursuant to such Act, if the appropriate congressional
 committees are notified at least 10 days before any such transfer, or
 `(B) in paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection.'.
SEC. 442. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF ASSISTANCE.
 (a) UNIFORM AUTHORITY- Section 635(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended by adding at the end the following: `The President may furnish
 assistance under this Act on such terms and conditions (consistent with
 other provisions of law) as the President deems appropriate.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- That Act is amended--
 (1) in section 103(a), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine,';
 (2) in section 104(b), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine,';
 (3) in section 104(c)(1), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions
 as he may determine,';
 (4) in section 105(a), by striking out `on such terms and conditions as he
 may determine,';
 (5) in section 122(d), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 the President may determine,';
 (6) in section 214(a), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may specify,';
 (7) in section 301(a), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine,';
 (8) in section 301(f), by striking out ` on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine';
 (9) in section 301(h), by striking out `(on such terms and conditions as
 the President may determine)';
 (10) in section 481(a)(4), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions
 as he may determine,';
 (11) in section 491(b), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine,';
 (12) in section 496(b), by striking out `on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine';
 (13) in section 503(a), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine,';
 (14) in section 531(a), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 he may determine,';
 (15) in section 541(a), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions
 consistent with this Act as the President may determine (but whenever
 feasible on a reimbursable basis),' and by inserting before the period at
 the end of the first sentence `(but such education and training should be
 furnished whenever feasible on a reimbursable basis)';
 (16) in section 551, by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as he
 may determine,';
 (17) in section 571, by striking out `, on such terms and conditions as
 the President may determine,'; and
 (18) in section 573(b), by striking out `, on such terms and conditions
 consistent with this Act as he may determine,'.
SEC. 443. CONTRACTING WITH INDIVIDUALS.
 Section 636(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 striking out `contracting with individuals for personal services abroad'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `contracting on a limited term basis for the
 personal services of individuals engaged primarily in furnishing assistance
 abroad'.
SEC. 444. FACILITIES ABROAD.
 Section 636 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c)--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking out `not to exceed $6,000,000 of
 the'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following: `Overseas property acquired under
 this subsection may be disposed of, and the proceeds of such disposal shall
 remain available until expended for use for the purposes specified in this
 subsection.'; and
 (2) in subsection (d), by striking out `Not to exceed $2,500,000 of funds'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `Funds'.
SEC. 445. COORDINATION OF UNITED STATES POLICIES AND PROGRAMS AFFECTING
DEVELOPMENT.
 Chapter 2 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
 (1) in section 622(a), by adding at the end the following: `Programs
 authorized by this Act shall be undertaken with the foreign policy guidance
 of the Secretary of State.'; and
 (2) by striking out section 640B and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`SEC. 640B. COORDINATION OF UNITED STATES POLICIES AND PROGRAMS AFFECTING
DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) COORDINATION- The President shall establish a system for coordination
 of United States policies and programs which affect United States interests
 in the development of developing countries.
 `(b) COORDINATION ABROAD- The President shall prescribe appropriate procedures
 to assure coordination among--
 `(1) the various agencies of the United States Government having
 representatives in diplomatic missions abroad; and
 `(2) representatives of the United States Government in each country,
 under the direction of the chief of the United States diplomatic mission.
 `(c) CONSULTATION WITH CONGRESS- The President shall consult with the
 appropriate congressional committees in carrying out this section.
 `(d) ROLE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR- Under the foreign policy guidance of the
 Secretary of State, the administrator of the agency primarily responsible
 for administering part I should have the responsibility for coordinating
 all United States development-related activities.'.
SEC. 446. RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN GENEROSITY.
 Section 641 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 641. RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN GENEROSITY.
 `The administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering
 part I of this Act shall take steps to ensure that for assistance projects
 under that part there shall be displayed an acknowledgement that the project
 was funded in part or in whole by the people of the United States.'.
SEC. 447. DISCRIMINATION AGAINST UNITED STATES PERSONNEL PROVIDING ASSISTANCE.
 (a) APPLICATION OF POLICY TO ALL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS- Section 666 of the
 Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 666. DISCRIMINATION AGAINST UNITED STATES PERSONNEL PROVIDING ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) ASSIGNMENT OF UNITED STATES PERSONNEL- The President shall not take
 into account, in assigning officers and employees of the United States
 to carry out any assistance program funded under this Act in any foreign
 country, the race, religion, national origin, or sex of any such officer
 or employee. Such assignments shall be made solely on the basis of ability
 and relevant experience.
 `(b) UNITED STATES POLICY- It is the policy of the United States that
 assistance under this Act should not be furnished to any foreign country,
 the laws, regulations, official policies, or governmental practices of
 which prevent any United States person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)
 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) from participating in the furnishing
 of assistance under this Act on the basis of race, religion, national origin,
 or sex.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 505(g) of that Act is repealed.
CHAPTER 5--DEFINITIONS
SEC. 451. DEFINITIONS DESIGNATING VARIOUS ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
 Chapter 3 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 644 the following:
`SEC. 644A. DEFINITIONS DESIGNATING VARIOUS ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
 `(a) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE- For purposes of this Act and the other provisions
 of law described in subsection (b), the following terms have the following
 meanings:
 `(1) ANTITERRORISM ASSISTANCE- The term `antiterrorism assistance' means
 assistance under chapter 8 of part II.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE FROM THE DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA- The term `assistance
 from the Development Fund for Africa' means assistance under chapter 10 of
 part I.
 `(3) DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE- The term `development assistance' means
 assistance under chapter 1 of part I.
 `(4) ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE- The term `economic support assistance'
 means assistance under chapter 4 of part II.
 `(5) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING ASSISTANCE- The term `foreign military
 financing assistance' means assistance under chapter 2 of part II, except
 that the term also includes, if appropriate in the context, assistance
 provided on any terms under section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act for
 fiscal years prior to fiscal year 1992.
 `(6) INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE- The term `international disaster
 assistance' means assistance under chapter 9 of part I.
 `(7) INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING- The term `international
 military education and training' means assistance under chapter 5 of part
 II, and does not include military education and training under chapter 2
 of part II.
 `(8) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE- The term `international
 narcotics control assistance' means assistance under chapter 8 of part I.
 `(9) MILITARY ASSISTANCE- The term `military assistance' means assistance
 under part II, except as otherwise provided with respect to assistance under
 chapter 6 of that part (relating to assistance for peacekeeping operations)
 and chapter 8 of that part (relating to antiterrorism assistance).
 `(10) MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE FOR THE PHILIPPINES- The term
 `assistance under the Multilateral Assistance Initiative for the Philippines'
 means assistance under chapter 4 of part I.
 `(b) LAWS TO WHICH DEFINITIONS ARE APPLICABLE- Unless otherwise provided
 or inconsistent in the context, the definitions provided in this section,
 section 644B, and section 644C apply with respect to references that are
 contained in this Act, the Arms Export Control Act, or any annual or periodic
 foreign assistance authorization legislation.'.
SEC. 452. DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.
 Chapter 3 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 644A, as added by the preceding section of this
 title, the following:
`SEC. 644B. DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.
 `Unless otherwise provided or inconsistent in the context, for purposes of
 this Act and the other provisions of law described in section 644A(b), the
 term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on Foreign
 Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations
 of the Senate.'.
SEC. 453. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
 Chapter 3 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 inserting after section 644B, as added by the preceding section of this
 title, the following:
`SEC. 644C. ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
 `Unless otherwise provided or inconsistent in the context, for purposes of
 this Act and the other provisions of law described in section 644A(b)--
 `(1) the term `Administrator' means the administrator of the agency primarily
 responsible for administering part I,
 `(2) the term `developing country' includes advanced developing country and,
 for purposes of chapter 1 of part I, includes areas;
 `(3) the term `gross violations of internationally recognized human rights'
 includes torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment,
 prolonged detention without charges and trial, arbitrary arrest, incommunicado
 detention, forced or involuntary disappearance by abduction and clandestine
 detention, and other flagrant denial of the right to life, liberty, or the
 security of person;
 `(4) the term `includes' means includes but is not limited to;
 `(5) the term `institution of higher education' has the same meaning that
 term is given by section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965;
 `(6) the term `major non-NATO ally' means a country which is designated
 in accordance with section 48 of the Arms Export Control Act as a major
 non-NATO ally for purposes of that Act and this Act; and
 `(7)  the term `notwithstanding any other provision of law' (and any
 comparable `notwithstanding' clause), unless otherwise expressly provided,
 does not supersede section 1341 of title 31 of the United States Code
 (commonly referred to as the `Anti-Deficiency Act'), the Federal Credit
 Reform Act of 1990, or subsections (c) and (d) of section 632 of this Act,
 or any comparable provision of law.'.
CHAPTER 6--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND REPEALS
SEC. 461. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS OF THE
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT.
 (a) REPEALS- The following provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 are repealed: the last two sentences of section 104(c)(3); section 111;
 section 116; section 117 (as added by Public Law 99-440); section 120;
 section 123(e); section 124; section 127; section 128; title I of chapter 2
 of part I; section 214(d); section 219; section 224; title V of chapter 2 of
 part I; sections 301(d) and (g); sections 302(b), (i), and (j); section 303;
 chapter 6 of part I; sections 494, 495, and 495B through 495K; section 502B;
 section 535; section 602; section 606; section 611; the first sentence of
 section 616 (as amended by chapter 4 of this title); all subsections of
 section 620 except subsections (a), (e), and (s); section 620D; the last
 sentence of section 626; section 634B; section 637; section 640A; section
 645; section 647; section 648; section 650; and section 663.
 (b) AMENDMENTS- That Act is amended--
 (1) in section 122, by striking out `GENERAL AUTHORITIES- ' and all that
 follows through `(d)' and inserting in lieu thereof `RESEARCH AND EDUCATIONAL
 INSTITUTIONS- ' and by repealing subsection (e);
 (2) in section 214(b), by striking out `, notwithstanding the provisions of
 the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951 (22 U.S.C. 1611 et seq.),';
 (3) in section 301(a), by striking out `, and in' and all that follows
 through `part';
 (4) in section 302 (as amended by subsection (a) of this section), by
 redesignating subsections (e) (as amended by title I of this Act),  (f),
 and (h) as subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively;
 (5) in section 301 (as amended by subsection (a) of this section), by
 redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b);
 (6) in section 620, by striking out`PROHIBITIONS AGAINST FURNISHING
 ASSISTANCE' in the section caption and inserting in lieu thereof `PROHIBITIONS
 RELATING TO CUBA; FEDERAL ACT OF STATE DOCTRINE; AND OTHER PROVISIONS';
 (7) in section 620(e)--
 (A) by striking out `(e)(1)' and all that follows through `(2)' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `(b) FEDERAL ACT OF STATE DOCTRINE- '; and
 (B) by striking out `this subsection' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `subsection (e) as in effect before the enactment of the International
 Cooperation Act of 1991';
 (8) by redesignating subsection (s) of section 620 as subsection (c); and
 (9) in section 621, by striking out the last sentence of subsection (a),
 by striking out `(a)', and by striking out subsection (b).
 (c) SECTION 124(c) AUTHORITY- For purposes of section 572 of the Foreign
 Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1989
 (Public Law 100-461), section 124(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
 as in effect before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be deemed to
 remain in effect on and after that date.
SEC. 462. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS OF ANNUAL FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACTS.
 (a) 1986 ASSISTANCE ACT- The Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1986 is
 repealed except for section 1, title I, and section 204.
 (b) 1985 ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security and Development
 Cooperation Act of 1985 is amended--
 (1) in section 202, by repealing subsections (a) and (b);
 (2) in section 203, by repealing subsection (a);
 (3) in section 1205, by striking out `Turkey, and Portugal' both places it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `, and Turkey'; and
 (4) by repealing all provisions of that Act (other than the sections amended
 in the preceding paragraphs of this subsection), except for section 1,
 section 131, section 132, section 502, section 504, section 505, part B of
 title V (other than section 558 and section 559), section 803, section 904,
 section 906, section 1302, and section 1303.
 (c) 1985 JORDAN SUPPLEMENTAL ACT- The Jordan Supplemental Economic Assistance
 Authorization Act of 1985 is repealed.
 (d) 1985 AFRICAN FAMINE ACT- The African Famine Relief and Recovery Act of
 1985 is repealed.
 (e) 1983 ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security and Development Assistance
 Authorization Act of 1983 is repealed.
 (f) 1983 LEBANON ASSISTANCE ACT- The Lebanon Emergency Assistance Act of
 1983 is repealed.
 (g) 1981 ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security and Development
 Cooperation Act of 1981 is repealed except for section 1, section 709,
 section 712, section 714, section 735, and section 737.
 (h) 1980 ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security and Development
 Cooperation Act of 1980 is repealed except for section 1, section 110,
 section 315, and title V.
 (i) 1979 DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Development Cooperation
 Act of 1979 is repealed.
 (j) 1979 SECURITY ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security Assistance
 Act of 1979 is repealed.
 (k) 1979 SPECIAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE ACT- The Special International Security
 Assistance Act of 1979 is repealed.
 (l) 1978 DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Development and
 Food Assistance Act of 1978 is repealed, except for section 1, title IV,
 and section 603 (which is amended by repealing subsection (b)).
 (m) 1978 SECURITY ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security Assistance
 Act of 1978 is repealed.
 (n) 1977 DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Development and
 Food Assistance Act of 1977 is repealed except for section 1, section 132,
 and section 133.
 (o) 1977 SECURITY ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security Assistance
 Act of 1977 is repealed.
 (p) 1976 SECURITY ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Security Assistance
 and Arms Export Control Act is repealed except for section 1, section 201
 (which is amended by repealing subsection (a)), section 212 (which is
 amended by repealing subsection (a)), section 601, and section 608.
 (q) 1975 DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE ACT- The International Development and Food
 Assistance Act of 1975 is repealed.
 (r) 1975 BIB ACT- Public Law 94-104 is repealed.
 (s) 1974 ASSISTANCE ACT- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1974 is repealed.
 (t) 1973 EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE ACT- The Emergency Security Assistance Act
 of 1973 is repealed.
 (u) 1973 ASSISTANCE ACT- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1973 is repealed.
 (v) 1971 ASSISTANCE ACT-
 (1) REPEAL- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1971 is repealed.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 531 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(f) Except where expressly provided to the contrary, any reference to part
 I of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference also to this chapter, and any
 reference to part II of this Act shall be deemed not to include this chapter.'
 (w) 1971 SPECIAL ASSISTANCE ACT- The Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1971
 is repealed except for the first section and section 7.
 (x) 1971 FMS ACT- The Act entitled `An Act to amend the Foreign Military
 Sales Act, and for other purposes', approved January 12, 1971 (Public Law
 91-672), is repealed, except for section 10 and section 12.
 (y) 1969 ASSISTANCE ACT- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1969 is repealed
 except for the first section and part IV.
 (z) 1968 ASSISTANCE ACT- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1968 is repealed.
 (aa) 1964 ASSISTANCE ACT- The Foreign Assistance Act of 1964 is repealed
 except for the first section and part V.
 (bb) LATIN AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT ACT- The Latin American Development Act
 is repealed.
 (cc) 1959 MUTUAL SECURITY ACT- The Mutual Security Act of 1959 is repealed.
 (dd) 1954 MUTUAL SECURITY ACT- Section 402 and section 417 of the Mutual
 Security Act of 1954 are repealed.
 (ee) SAVINGS PROVISION- The repeal by this Act of any provision of law
 that amended or repealed another provision of law does not affect in any
 way that amendment or repeal.
SEC. 463. SOME CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS.
 (a) PUBLIC LAW 480- Section 414(b) of the Agricultural Trade Development and
 Assistance Act of 1954 is amended by striking out `as defined in section
 481(i)(2)' and inserting in lieu thereof `for purposes of chapter 8 of
 part I'.
 (b) EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT- The Export Administration Act of 1979 is
 amended--
 (1) in section 5(b)(1), by striking out `set forth in section 620(f)'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `on the list established pursuant to section
 691(c)'; and
 (2) in section 6(m)(2), by striking out `section 502B' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `sections 691(a)(2) and 283(a)'.
 (c) ANGLO-IRISH AGREEMENT SUPPORT ACT- Section 4(a)(1) of the Anglo-Irish
 Agreement Support Act of 1986 is amended by striking out `Revolving Fund'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `Guarantee Program'.
 (d) EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT- Section 2(b)(6) of the Export-Import Bank Act
 of 1945 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking out `481(h)(5)' and insert in
 lieu thereof `490(e)';
 (2) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking out `as defined in section 481(i)(2)'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `for purposes of chapter 8 of part I'; and
 (3) in subparagraph (E), by striking out `security assistance for purposes
 of section 502B of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961' and insert in lieu
 thereof `assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for purposes
 of section 691(a)(2) of that Act'.
TITLE V--EUROPE
CHAPTER 1--SUPPORT FOR EAST EUROPEAN DEMOCRACY ACT
SEC. 501. AMENDMENTS TO SEED ACT OF 1989.
 Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this chapter an
 amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of,
 a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made
 to a section or other provision of the Support for East European Democracy
 (SEED) Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-179).
SEC. 502. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING EASTERN EUROPE.
 (a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- The provisions preceding title I are amended--
 (1) by redesignating section 2 (22 U.S.C. 5401) as section 3; and
 (2) by inserting the following new section 2 after the table of contents
 in section 1(b):
`SEC. 2. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING EASTERN EUROPE.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- It shall be the policy of the United States to facilitate the
 reintegration of the East European countries into the community of democratic
 nations and to end the artificial division of Europe. In furtherance of
 these objectives, the United States shall support economic and political
 reform in East European countries, both through--
 `(1) the provision of assistance to governments and private individuals
 and entities in those countries, and
 `(2) the promotion of a United States commercial presence in those countries.
 `(b) ASSISTANCE- Pursuant to subsection (a)(1), the United States should
 provide assistance for East European countries under the authorities of
 this Act to the extent that such countries are taking steps toward--
 `(1) political pluralism, based on progress toward free and fair elections
 and a multiparty political system;
 `(2) economic reform, based on progress toward a market-oriented economy;
 `(3) respect for internationally recognized human rights; and
 `(4) a willingness to build a friendly relationship with the United States.
 `(c) Reintegration of Eastern Europe Into the Community of Democratic Nations-
 `(1) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(A) the process in Eastern Europe of building democratic institutions
 and governments based on the rule of law and of developing market-oriented
 economies, will be far from complete during the 3-year period originally
 authorized in this Act;
 `(B) the process of reintegrating Eastern Europe into the community of
 democratic nations will be slower and more difficult than was expected at
 a time of general euphoria following the democratic revolutions of 1989;
 `(C) grant and loan assistance provided to date to Eastern Europe through the
 G-24 process (through the member governments of the Organization for Economic
 Cooperation and Development) has been generous but frequently duplicative;
 `(D) successful reintegration of Eastern Europe into the community of
 democratic nations will require broader outreach by United States and G-24
 assistance programs to populations, enterprises, and local and regional
 governments outside of national capitals.
 `(2) POLICIES- Accordingly--
 `(A) the United States should commit itself, and seek the commitment of
 other G-24 governments, to the completion of Eastern Europe's reintegration
 into the community of democratic nations, and future requests for assistance
 should reflect the commitment of the United States to this task;
 `(B) the United States and other G-24 governments should coordinate their
 assistance more thoroughly in order to prevent duplication of effort and
 to maximize the effectiveness of assistance provided; and
 `(C) the United States should ensure that the assistance provided to each
 eligible East European country under this Act is distributed equitably
 through the country.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended by striking out the item relating to section 2 and
 inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`Sec. 2. United States policy regarding Eastern Europe.
`Sec. 3. Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Program.'.
SEC. 503. EAST EUROPEAN COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR SEED BENEFITS.
 (a) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA- The provisions preceding title I are amended by
 inserting after section 3 (22 U.S.C. 5401), as so redesignated by section
 502 of this Act, the following new section:
`SEC. 4. COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR SEED BENEFITS.
 `(a) ELIGIBLE EAST EUROPEAN COUNTRY- For purposes of this Act, the term
 `eligible East European country' means--
 `(1) Poland,
 `(2) Hungary,
 `(3) the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic,
 `(4) Bulgaria,
 `(5) Albania,
 `(6) Romania,
 `(7) Lithuania,
 `(8) Latvia,
 `(9) Estonia, and
 `(10) any other East European country if the President has reported to
 the Congress that he has determined that that country is taking the steps
 described in section 2(b).
 `(b) YUGOSLAVIA- Yugoslavia shall also be considered to be an eligible East
 European country for purposes of this Act, unless the President determines,
 and reports to the Congress, that Yugoslavia is not taking the steps
 described in section 2(b).'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF SEED PROGRAM- Subsection (a) of section 3,
 as so redesignated by section 502 of this Act, is amended by striking out
 `countries' and all that follows through `pluralism' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `East European countries that are taking the steps described in
 section 2'.
 (2) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in section 1(b), as amended
 by section 502(b) of this Act, is further amended by inserting after the
 item relating to section 3 the following:
`Sec. 4. Countries eligible for SEED benefits.'.
SEC. 504. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT.
 (a) MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- Subsection (a) of section 101 (22 U.S.C. 5411)
 is amended--
 (1) in the subsection heading, by striking out `FOR POLAND AND HUNGARY'; and
 (2) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by striking out `Poland and Hungary continue' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `an eligible East European country continues'; and
 (B) by striking out `Poland and Hungary' the second place it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `that country'.
 (b) STABILIZATION ASSISTANCE AND DEBT RELIEF-
 (1) MULTILATERAL SUPPORT- Section 101 is amended by striking out subsection
 (b) and inserting in lieu thereof the following new subsections:
 `(b) STABILIZATION ASSISTANCE- To the extent that an eligible East European
 country continues to evolve toward pluralism and democracy and to develop
 and implement comprehensive economic reform programs, the United States
 Government, in conjunction with other member governments of the Organization
 of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and international financial
 institutions (including the International Monetary Fund), shall support the
 implementation of a program to address key structural economic problems,
 address pressing social problems, carry out comprehensive economic reform,
 and relieve immediate and urgent balance of payments requirements, through
 the use of mechanisms such as--
 `(1) the Exchange Stabilization Fund pursuant to section 5302 of title 31,
 United States Code, and in accordance with established Department of the
 Treasury policies and procedures; and
 `(2) the authority provided in section 102(c) of this Act.
 `(c) DEBT RELIEF- To the extent that an eligible East European country
 continues to evolve toward pluralism and democracy and to develop and
 implement comprehensive economic reform programs, the United States
 Government, as appropriate for individual eligible East European countries--
 `(1) shall urge all members of the `Paris Club' of creditor governments
 and other creditor governments to adopt, and participate in, a generous
 and early debt rescheduling program, as well as a program of reductions,
 on a case-by-case basis, of official debt and official debt service owed to
 such governments by the government of an eligible East European country; and
 `(2) shall seek, in coordination with other creditor governments, to expedite
 consultations between the government of that East European country and its
 major private creditors in order to facilitate a rescheduling and reduction
 of payments due on debt owed to such creditors in a manner consistent with
 the international debt policy announced by the Secretary of the Treasury
 on March 10, 1989.'.
 (2) AUTHORIZATION FOR STABILIZATION ASSISTANCE- Section 102(c) (22
 U.S.C. 5412) is amended--
 (A) in the subsection heading by striking out `ADDITIONAL';
 (B) in paragraph (1)--
 (i) by striking out `paragraph (1) of';
 (ii) by striking out `for Poland' and inserting in lieu thereof `for an
 eligible East European country';
 (iii) by striking out `urgent';
 (iv) by striking out `Polish economy' and inserting in lieu thereof `economy
 of that country'; and
 (v) by striking out `Poland' and inserting in lieu thereof `the eligible
 East European country'; and
 (C) in paragraph (2) by inserting `with respect to Poland' after `fund)'.
 (c) SUPPORT FOR FREE MARKET AGRICULTURAL POLICIES- Section 103(a) is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
 `(4) SUPPORT FOR FREE MARKET AGRICULTURAL POLICIES- The President shall
 seek to support adoption of agricultural policies in each eligible East
 European country that are based on free-market policies and shall seek to
 discourage policies that distort market signals through protective import
 barriers or government export subsidies.'.
 (d) DEBT-FOR-EQUITY AND DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT SWAPS- Section 104 (22
 U.S.C. 5414) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking out `East European countries which have
 taken substantive steps toward political democracy and economic pluralism'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries'; and
 (2) in subsection (b), by striking out `East European country which has
 taken substantive steps toward political democracy and economic pluralism'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `eligible East European country'.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) SECTION HEADINGS- (A) Section 101 is amended in the section heading by
 striking out `in poland and hungary'.
 (B) Section 102 is amended in the section heading by striking out `for
 poland'.
 (2) CROSS REFERENCES- (A) Section 102(a)(2) (22 U.S.C. 5412) is amended by
 striking out `(1)(A)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(1)'.
 (B) Section 103(b) (22 U.S.C. 5413) is amended by striking out `Pursuant
 to section 101(b)(3)' and inserting in lieu thereof `To the extent that
 Poland continues to evolve toward pluralism and democracy and to implement
 comprehensive economic reform programs'.
 (3) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in section 1(b) is amended--
 (A) in the item relating to section 101 by striking out `in Poland and
 Hungary'; and
 (B) in the item relating to section 102 by striking out `for Poland'.
SEC. 505. PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) ASSISTANCE FOR PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT- Title II is amended--
 (1) by redesignating sections 202 through 206 as sections 203 through 207,
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after section 201 the following new section 202:
`SEC. 202. PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT.
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE- For purposes of promoting private
 sector development in eligible East European countries, the Agency for
 International Development is authorized to provide assistance--
 `(1) for activities similar to those for which assistance is authorized
 by section 201, such assistance to be provided in a manner similar to the
 manner in which assistance is authorized to be provided by that section; and
 `(2) to support United States participation in capital projects, both public
 infrastructure projects and private investment projects.
 `(b) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF MANNER IN WHICH ASSISTANCE WILL BE PROVIDED- Each
 notification pursuant to section 706 with respect to funds to be obligated
 to carry out subsection (a)(1) shall specify the manner in which assistance
 will be provided.
 `(c) NONAPPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS- Funds made available for assistance
 under this section may be used notwithstanding any other provision of law.'.
 (b) LABOR MARKET TRANSITION- Section 203 (22 U.S.C. 5422), as so redesignated
 by subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `in poland and hungary';
 (2) in subsection (a), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' in paragraphs
 (1) and (2) and inserting in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (3) in subsection (c)(3), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (4) in subsection (g), by striking out all that follows `section' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `$5,000,000.'; and
 (5) by adding at the end the following:
 `(h) AID AUTHORITY- The President, acting through the Administrator of
 the Agency for International Development, is authorized to use funds made
 available to carry out this Act to provide the assistance described in this
 section for eligible East European countries. Assistance may be provided
 under this subsection notwithstanding any other provision of law.'.
 (c) TECHNICAL TRAINING AND ASSISTANCE-
 (1) EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY- Section 204 (22 U.S.C. 5423), as so redesignated
 by subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
 (A) in the section heading, by striking out `for' and all that follows
 through `hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof `and assistance'; and
 (B) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(a) TECHNICAL TRAINING AND ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS- The President, acting through
 the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, shall develop
 and implement programs of technical training and technical assistance for
 eligible East European countries to enable them to better meet their needs
 as they develop market economies and democratic institutions. These programs
 may include--
 `(1) training in skills of agribusiness (including agricultural extension),
 commerce, entrepreneurship, finance, science (including environmental
 science), pollution control, business and government administration and
 management, auditing, accounting, drafting legal codes and regulations,
 and other relevant areas; and
 `(2) technical assistance in areas specified in paragraph (1).'.
 (2) PARTICIPATION OF NGOS- Paragraph (6) of subsection (b) is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(6) United States private and voluntary organizations and private sector
 entities, and  private and voluntary organizations and private sector
 entities of eligible East European countries.'.
 (3) COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES- That section is further amended--
 (A) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as subsections (d) through
 (f), respectively; and
 (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
 `(c) COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES- In carrying out this section, the Agency for
 International Development shall use competitive procedures to the maximum
 extent practicable in making grants to, and entering into contracts with,
 nongovernmental entities.'.
 (4) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS- That section is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b), by striking out `406(a) (1) and (2)' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `501'; and
 (B) in subsection (f), as so redesignated by paragraph (2)(A) of this
 subsection--
 (i) by striking out `406(a) (1) and (2)' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `501(a)'; and
 (ii) by striking out `1107 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736
 note)' and inserting in lieu thereof `501(c) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 1737(c))'.
 (d) PEACE CORPS PROGRAMS- Section 205 (22 U.S.C. 204), as so redesignated
 by subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `in poland and hungary';
 (2) by striking out the first sentence;
 (3) in the second sentence by striking out `Such programs' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `Peace Corps programs in eligible East European countries'; and
 (4) in paragraph (2), by striking out `technical skills described in section
 203(a) to the people of Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `training in technical skills described in section 204(a)(1) to the people
 of eligible East European countries'.
 (e) USE OF LOCAL CURRENCIES-
 (1) EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY- Section 206 (22 U.S.C. 5425), as so redesignated
 by subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
 (A) in the section heading, by striking out `polish' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `local'; and
 (B) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking out `FOR POLAND' in the subsection heading;
 (ii) by striking out `Poland' in the text preceding paragraph (1) and
 inserting in lieu thereof `the recipient country';
 (iii) in paragraph (1), by striking out `for Poland authorized by sections
 103(b), 201, and 203' and inserting in lieu thereof `provided for in sections
 103, 201, 202, and 204';
 (iv) in paragraph (2), by inserting `in the case of Poland,' after `(2)';
 (v) in subsection (b), by striking out `in Poland'; and
 (vi) in subsection (c), by striking out `Poland for fiscal years 1990, 1991,
 and 1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `an eligible East European country'.
 (2) CROSS REFERENCE- Section 204(f), as so redesignated by subsections (a)
 and (c)(2)(A), is amended by striking out `205' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `206'.
 (f) CREDIT UNIONS-
 (1) UNITED STATES POLICY- Section 207 (22 U.S.C. 5426), as so redesignated
 by subsection (a), is amended--
 (A) in the section heading, by striking out `polish and hungarian'; and
 (B) in subsection (a)--
 (i) in the text preceding paragraph (1), by striking out `Poland and Hungary'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `those countries'; and
 (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `those countries'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO FEDERAL CREDIT UNION ACT- Paragraph (16) of
 section 107 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1757) (as added by
 the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989) is amended by
 striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof `countries
 that are eligible Eastern European countries for purposes of the Support
 for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989'.
 (g) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `202', `203', `204', `205', and `206' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `203', `204', `205', `206', and `207', respectively;
 (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 201 the following:
`Sec. 202. Private enterprise development.';
 (3) in the item relating to section 203 (as so redesignated), by striking
 out `in Poland and Hungary';
 (4) in the item relating to section 204 (as so redesignated), by striking out
 all that follows `training' and inserting in lieu thereof `and assistance.';
 (5) in the item relating to section 205 (as so redesignated), by striking
 out `in Poland and Hungary';
 (6) in the item relating to section 206 (as so redesignated), by striking
 out `Polish' and inserting in lieu thereof `local'; and
 (7) in the item relating to section 207 (as so redesignated), by striking
 out `Polish and Hungarian'.
SEC. 506. TRADE AND INVESTMENT.
 (a) REPEAL OF EXECUTED AMENDMENTS AND OBSOLETE PROVISIONS- Section 301,
 section 302 (22 U.S.C. 2199 note), section 305 (22 U.S.C. 2421 note), and
 section 307 are repealed. The repeal of those sections does not affect any
 amendment made by any such section.
 (b) EXPORT-IMPORT BANK PROGRAMS- Section 303 (22 U.S.C. 635 note) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating that section as section 301;
 (2) in the section heading, by striking out `for poland and hungary';
 (3) in the heading for subsection (a), by striking out `TO POLAND AND
 HUNGARY'; and
 (4) in subsection (a), by inserting after `thereof' the first place it
 appears `, by the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic or any agency or
 national thereof,'.
 (c) TRADE CREDIT INSURANCE PROGRAM FOR POLAND- Section 304, and section
 225 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2185), are repealed.
 (d) BILATERAL INVESTMENT TREATIES- Section 306 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating that section as section 302;
 (2) in the section heading, by striking out `with poland and hungary'; and
 (3) by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries'.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended--
 (1) by striking out the items relating to sections 301, 302, 304, 305,
 and 307;
 (2) in the item relating to section 303, by striking `303' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `301' and by striking out `for Poland and Hungary'; and
 (3) in the item relating to section 306, by striking out `306' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `302' and by striking out `with Poland and Hungary'.
SEC. 507. EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL, AND SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES.
 (a) EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGES AND SISTER INSTITUTIONS PROGRAMS-
 Section 401 (22 U.S.C. 5441) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading by striking out `with Poland and Hungary';
 (2) in subsection (a)(1)--
 (A) by striking out `SUPPORT FOR EXPANDED U.S. PARTICIPATION' in the paragraph
 heading and inserting in lieu thereof `FREEDOM INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM';
 (B) by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following: `United States Government support
 for such activities shall be known as the `Freedom International Program'.';
 (3) in subsection (a)(2), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (4) in subsection (b), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (5) in subsection (c), by striking out `Poland and the United States and in
 Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries'; and
 (6) in subsection (d), by striking out `and Polish organizations and
 between American and Hungarian organizations' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `organizations and organizations of eligible East European countries'.
 (b) SCHOLARSHIP PARTNERSHIP- Section 402 (22 U.S.C. 5442) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `poland-hungary';
 (2) in subsection (a), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (3) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries', and
 (B) by striking out `in the United States';
 (4) in subsection (c), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (5) in subsection (g)--
 (A) by striking out `Poland or Hungary, as the case may be' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `his or her country of nationality', and
 (B) by striking out `in the United States';
 (6) by striking out subsection (i) and by inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
 `(i) COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES- In carrying out this section, the Agency for
 International Development shall use competitive procedures to the maximum
 extent practicable in making grants to, and entering into contracts with,
 nongovernmental entities.';
 (7) in subsection (j), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `an eligible East European country'; and
 (8) by inserting at the end the following:
 `(l) AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS ABROAD- The Administrator of the Agency for
 International Development may use funds made available each fiscal year to
 carry out this section in order to provide scholarships to enable students
 from eligible East European countries to study at American institutions of
 higher education in Europe.'.
 (c) USE OF POLISH CURRENCIES FOR HOLOCAUST EDUCATION- Title IV is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 404. USE OF POLISH CURRENCIES FOR HOLOCAUST EDUCATION.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION- Consistent with other United States priorities in Poland,
 the President may make available for the Research Center on Jewish History
 and Culture of the Jagiellonian University of Krakow, Poland, established
 for the study of events related to the Holocaust in Poland, up to the
 equivalent of $500,000 of Polish currencies described in subsection (b).
 `(b) CURRENCIES THAT MAY BE USED- The currencies that are available for
 use under subsection (a) are nonconvertible Polish currencies held by the
 United States that are derived from programs administered by the Commodity
 Credit Corporation or pursuant to the Agricultural Trade Development and
 Assistance Act of 1954, section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949,
 or the Food for Progress Act of 1985.'.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended--
 (1) in the item relating to section 401, by striking out `with Poland
 and Hungary';
 (2) in the item relating to section 402, by striking out `Poland-Hungary
 scholarship' and inserting in lieu thereof `Scholarship'; and
 (3) by adding at the end of the items relating to title IV the following:
`Sec. 404. Use of Polish currencies for Holocaust education.'.
SEC. 508. OTHER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
 (a) SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 501 (22 U.S.C. 5451) is amended--
 (A) in the section heading, by striking out `in poland and hungary';
 (B) by striking out the text of subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following: `The President, acting through the Administrator of the
 Agency for International Development, is authorized to provide assistance in
 support of democratic institutions and activities in eligible East European
 countries consistent with subsections (a) through (e) of section 281 of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to human rights and democratic
 initiatives).'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following:
 `(c) COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES- In carrying section (a), the Agency for
 International Development shall use competitive procedures to the maximum
 extent practicable in making grants to, and entering into contracts with,
 nongovernmental entities.'.
 (2) SUPPORT FOR PARLIAMENTARY DEVELOPMENT- That section is further amended
 by adding at the end the following:
 `(d) MULTILATERAL SUPPORT FOR PARLIAMENTARY DEVELOPMENT- From the funds
 made available to carry out this section, the President should allocate up
 to $750,000 annually to contribute support, in conjunction with appropriate
 contributions from parliaments of other North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 members, to the North Atlantic Assembly's plan for expanded East European
 participation.'.
 (b) ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES; ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROGRAMS- Section 502
 (22 U.S.C. 5452) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `initiatives for poland and
 hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof `initiatives; environmental impact
 of programs';
 (2) in subsection (a)--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `Eastern and Central Europe'; and
 (B) in the second sentence--
 (i) by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries'; and
 (ii) by striking out `and the restoration of the natural resource base on
 which a sustainable, healthy economy depends' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `, the restoration of the natural resource base, and the alleviation of
 health problems resulting from environmental degradation';
 (3) in subsection (b), by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `eligible East European countries';
 (4) in subsection (g)--
 (A) by striking out `Hungary and Poland' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `East European countries'; and
 (B) by striking out `Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries';
 (5) in subsection (h)--
 (A) by striking out `IN HUNGARY' in the subsection heading; and
 (B) by striking out `Government of Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `governments of eligible East European countries'; and
 (6) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(i) ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY ASSISTANCE- The President, acting through
 the Administrator of the Agency for International Development and the
 Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, is authorized to provide
 assistance for environment and energy activities in eligible East European
 countries, with emphasis on assistance in developing policies encouraging
 and providing incentives for end-use energy efficiency (including preparation
 of least-cost energy plans), conservation, and reliance on renewable energy
 resources. Assistance under this subsection may include training, technical
 assistance for related energy and environmental investments or regulation,
 local production of environmental or energy-related equipment, promotion
 of United States technologies, and dealing with health problems directly
 associated with pollution.
 `(j) COORDINATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES- The Administrator of the
 Environmental Protection Agency and the Administrator of the Agency for
 International Development shall jointly, and in cooperation, select the
 environmental initiatives and policies for carrying out subsections (b), (c),
 (d), and (i). Specific environmental programs or projects shall be evaluated
 and carried out by those United States Government agencies or departments
 with traditional and recognized expertise in the program area, or by
 nongovernmental organizations, as appropriate to their respective expertise.
 `(k) REGIONAL PROGRAM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH ACTIVITIES IN THE CZECH AND
 SLOVAK FEDERAL REPUBLIC-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The President shall work with officials of the Government
 of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic to establish and support a regional
 program to study and facilitate cooperative activities to address the public
 health aspects of environmental degradation.
 `(2) FUNDING- Of the funds allocated to carry out subsection (i), up to
 $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 may be made available to carry out paragraph
 (1).
 `(l) ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT- Assistance under this Act (other than
 assistance provided through Enterprise Funds under section 201 or through
 enterprise funds or similar entities under section 202) shall be provided
 consistent with section 117(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as
 so redesignated by section 301 of the Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1986).
 `(m) AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE- Activities carried out under section 204
 (relating to technical training and assistance) or section 206 (relating
 to use of local currency generated by agricultural assistance) that are
 designed to increase agricultural production shall emphasize the principles of
 low-input sustainable agriculture and integrated pest management, including
 promotion of alternative production systems that minimize pesticide residues
 on food.'.
 (c) MEDICAL ASSISTANCE- Section 503 (22 U.S.C. 5453) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out all that follows `medical'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `assistance.'; and
 (2) by amending the text of subsection (a) to read as follows: `The President,
 acting through the Administrator of the Agency for International Development,
 is authorized to provide to eligible East European countries (1) medical
 training, (2) assistance with respect to health care planning and policy,
 and (3) other assistance to improve the quality of health care.'.
 (d) ASSISTANCE FOR HOUSING- Title V is amended by adding at the end the
 following:
`SEC. 504. ASSISTANCE FOR HOUSING.
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE- The President, acting through the
 Administrator of the Agency for International Development, is authorized to
 provide technical assistance, and assistance to support the infrastructure,
 necessary to support a viable housing sector in eligible East European
 countries. Such assistance may be provided notwithstanding any other
 provision of law.
 `(b) HOUSING INVESTMENT GUARANTY PROGRAM- Guaranties may be issued under
 section 221 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for projects in eligible
 East European countries notwithstanding any other provision of law which
 would prohibit assistance for projects in such countries.'.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended--
 (1) in the item relating to section 501, by striking out `in Poland and
 Hungary';
 (2) in the item relating to section 502, by striking out `initiatives for
 Poland and Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof `initiatives; environmental
 impact of programs';
 (3) by amending the item relating to section 503 to read as follows:
`Sec. 503. Medical assistance.';
and
 (4) by inserting after the item relating to section 503 the following:
`Sec. 504. Assistance for housing.'.
SEC. 509. ADDITIONAL SEED PROGRAM ACTIONS.
 (a) EASTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INFORMATION CENTER SYSTEM- Section 602 (22
 U.S.C. 5462) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 602. EASTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INFORMATION CENTER SYSTEM.
 `(a) PURPOSE- The President shall encourage and facilitate  United States
 investment in East European business enterprises through the widest possible
 dissemination of commercial and legal information on Eastern Europe to
 the  United States business community through  United States information
 services companies.
 `(b) REQUIREMENT FOR BUSINESS INFORMATION CENTER SYSTEM- Under the direction
 of the President, the SEED Program coordinator shall maintain an Eastern
 European Business Information Center System, employing (as appropriate) the
 services and expertise of United States information services companies. This
 system shall work in coordination with the Foreign Commercial Service and
 the governments of eligible East European countries.
 `(c) FUNCTIONS- The  Eastern European Business Information Center System
 shall serve as a central clearinghouse and data resource service for  United
 States and  Eastern European businesses, providing information relating to--
 `(1) business conditions in  Eastern Europe;
 `(2) legal and regulatory information needed by  United States companies
 seeking to do business in  Eastern Europe;
 `(3) investment and trade opportunities for United States companies resulting
 from the region's efforts to privatize state enterprises and move toward
 a market economy; and
 `(4) voluntary assistance efforts to countries in  Eastern Europe.
 `(d) AMERICAN BUSINESS CENTERS- Where the President deems it would be
 effective in promoting the purposes of this Act, the President should
 establish American Business Centers to support American business initiative
 in Eastern Europe. Such Centers should--
 `(1) be designed to provide economies of time and scale to American businesses
 seeking to initiate trade and investment; and
 `(2) operate, where feasible and to the maximum extent possible, on a
 user-fee basis.
 `(e) INFORMATION ACCESS- The Eastern European Business Information Center
 System shall be made accessible to the widest possible number of United States
 businesses through commercially available on-line information services. The
 SEED Program coordinator shall also endeavor to make information accessible
 to local enterprises in Eastern Europe seeking trade with or investment
 from the United States through the establishment of Eastern European trade
 information centers at such locations as the coordinator may designate.'.
 (b) ENCOURAGING VOLUNTARY ASSISTANCE- Section 603 (22 U.S.C. 5463)
 is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `for poland and hungary';
 (2) in subsection (a), by striking out `Poland and to refugees from Romania
 who are in Hungary' and inserting in lieu thereof `eligible East European
 countries'; and
 (3) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in the subsection heading, by striking out `TO POLAND';
 (B) in paragraph (1), by striking out `Poland' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries'; and
 (C) in paragraph (3), by striking out `Poland' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `eligible East European countries'.
 (c) UNITED STATES REPRESENTATION IN EASTERN EUROPE- Section 604 (22
 U.S.C. 5464) is repealed.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended--
 (1) by amending the item relating to section 602 to read as follows:
`Sec. 602. Eastern European Business Information Center System.';
 (2) in the item relating to section 603, by striking out `for Poland and
 Hungary'; and
 (3) by striking out the item relating to section 604.
SEC. 510. FUNDING OF SEED PROGRAM.
 (a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Title VIII (22 U.S.C. 5491-5495)
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 806. FUNDING OF SEED PROGRAM.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the President under the heading `AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT'
 $415,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $415,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 to
 provide the assistance authorized by the provisions of this Act specified
 in subsection (c). Such amounts are in addition to any amounts made
 available under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to provide
 such assistance. Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this subsection
 are authorized to remain available until expended.
 `(b) RECOMMENDED AMOUNTS OF ASSISTANCE TO THE BALTIC COUNTRIES- Of the amounts
 authorized to be appropriated by subsection (a), at least $15,000,000 for each
 fiscal year should be used for assistance for Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia.
 `(c) RECOMMENDED AMOUNTS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF ASSISTANCE- The amounts
 authorized to be appropriated by subsection (a) for each fiscal year should
 be allocated as follows (with proportional reductions in each amount if
 the appropriation is less than the amount authorized to be appropriated):
 `(1) $175,000,000 should be allocated for use under sections 201 and 202
 (relating to Enterprise Funds and private enterprise development).
 `(2) $25,000,000 should be allocated for use under section 501 (relating
 to support for democratic institutions).
 `(3) $75,000,000 should be allocated for use under subsection (i) of section
 502 (relating to assistance for environment and energy activities).
 `(4) $140,000,000 should be allocated for use under--
 `(A) subsection (c)(1) of section 102 (relating to stabilization assistance),
 `(B) subsection (h) of section 203 (relating to labor market transition),
 `(C) section 204 (relating to technical training and assistance),
 `(D) section 402 (relating to scholarships),
 `(E) section 503 (relating to medical assistance), and
 `(F) subsection (a) of section 504 (relating to assistance for housing).
 `(d) AUTHORIZATIONS PROVIDED IN OTHER SECTIONS OF THIS ACT- Authorizations
 of appropriations provided in other sections of this Act, other than section
 403 (relating to science and technology exchange agreements), shall cease
 to be effective as of the date of enactment of this section.
 `(e) RELATION TO OTHER LAWS- Funds made available under this section may
 be used to provided assistance under this Act notwithstanding any other
 provision of law.
 `(f) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES- Funds authorized
 to be appropriated by subsection (a) shall be considered to be funds
 made available to carry out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (relating to economic assistance programs). This subsection does not
 supersede any provision which authorizes assistance to be provided under
 this Act `notwithstanding any other provision of law'.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in
 section 1(b) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 806. Funding of SEED program.'.
SEC. 511. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO LIST OF SEED ACTIONS.
 Subsection (c) of section 3 (22 U.S.C. 5401), as so redesignated by section
 502(a)(1) of this Act, is amended as follows:
 (1) DEBT-FOR-EQUITY AND DEBT-FOR-DEVELOPMENT SWAPS- In paragraph (3), by
 inserting before the period at the end of the paragraph `, and debt-for-equity
 and debt-for-development swaps'.
 (2) STABILIZATION ASSISTANCE- By--
 (A) redesignating paragraphs (4) through (25) as paragraphs (5) through
 (26), respectively, and
 (B) inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph (4):
 `(4) STABILIZATION ASSISTANCE- Balance of payments support and other
 assistance to stabilize a country's economy and promote longer-term economic
 growth and stability, based on movement toward free market principles.'.
 (3) ENTERPRISE FUNDS- In paragraph (6), as so redesignated by paragraph
 (2) of this section, by striking out `so is designated' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `is so designated'.
 (4) PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT- By--
 (A) redesignating paragraphs (7) through (26), as so redesignated by paragraph
 (2) of this section, as paragraphs (8) through (27), respectively, and
 (B) inserting after paragraph (6), as so redesignated by paragraph (2)
 of this section, the following new paragraph (7):
 `(7) PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT- In order to support private enterprise
 development, assistance similar to that authorized to be provided by the
 Enterprise Funds and assistance to support United States participation in
 capital projects, both public infrastructure projects and private investment
 projects.'.
 (5) TECHNICAL TRAINING AND ASSISTANCE- By amending paragraph (9), as so
 redesignated by the preceding paragraphs of this section, to read as follows:
 `(9) TECHNICAL TRAINING AND ASSISTANCE- Technical training and assistance
 to assist eligible East European countries as they develop a market economy
 and democratic institutions.'.
 (6) SCHOLARSHIPS- Paragraph (22), as so redesignated by the preceding
 paragraphs of this section, is amended by inserting `and at American
 institutions of higher education abroad' after `States'.
 (7) MEDICAL ASSISTANCE- Paragraph (26), as so redesignated by the preceding
 paragraphs of this section, is amended to read as follows:
 `(26) MEDICAL ASSISTANCE- Medical training and other assistance to improve
 the quality of health care.'.
 (8) ASSISTANCE FOR HOUSING- By--
 (A) redesignating paragraph (27), as so redesignated by the preceding
 paragraphs of this section, as paragraph (28), and
 (B) inserting after paragraph (26), as so redesignated by the preceding
 paragraphs of this section, the following new paragraph (27):
 `(27) ASSISTANCE FOR HOUSING- Assistance to support a viable housing
 section.'.
 (9) EASTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INFORMATION CENTER SYSTEM- Paragraph (28),
 as so redesignated by the preceding paragraphs of this section, is amended
 by striking out `a SEED Information Center' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `an Eastern European Business Information Center System'.
SEC. 512. REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL CENTER FOR CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE.
 The Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe located
 in Budapest, Hungary, which is authorized under section 502(d) of the
 Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, shall be treated
 as an international organization for the purpose of detailing United States
 Government personnel.
CHAPTER 2--OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE REGION
SEC. 521. SOVIET-EASTERN EUROPEAN RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROGRAM.
 (a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to amounts otherwise
 authorized to be appropriated for such purpose, there are authorized to
 be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $5,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993 to carry out the Soviet-Eastern European Research and Training
 Act of 1983.
 (b) ANNUAL REPORTS- Section 807 of the Soviet-Eastern European Research
 and Training Act of 1983 (22 U.S.C. 4506) is amended to read as follows:
`annual reports
 `SEC. 807. At the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary of State shall
 prepare and submit to the Congress a report on the implementation of this
 title during that fiscal year. This report shall include--
 `(1) an analysis of the extent to which the payments made pursuant to this
 title were successful in supporting the functions referred to in section
 802(3);
 `(2) a financial statement showing how the funds paid to each institution
 pursuant to this title were used, with a summary of the results of any
 audit conducted by the United States Government with respect to those funds;
 `(3) a listing of all institutions receiving payments under this title
 whose administrative expenses that were covered by such payments represented
 more than 10 percent of the amount of those payments, with an explanation
 for each such institution of why its administrative expenses exceeded 10
 percent of the amount of those payments; and
 `(4) such recommendations as the Advisory Committee deems advisable.'.
SEC. 522. CONDEMNATION OF ANTI-SEMITISM AND ETHNIC INTOLERANCE IN ROMANIA.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) in December 1989, after decades of harsh repression by successive
 Communist regimes in Romania, a violent uprising overthrew the brutal
 dictatorship of Nicolae Ceausescu;
 (2) this historic event has opened the way for the people of Romania to join
 the other nations of Central and Eastern Europe in establishing a free and
 democratic political system and a free market economy;
 (3) a reunited Europe, meaning a harmonious community of free and friendly
 nations, must be established on the basis of full respect for human rights,
 including the rights of minorities, and a rejection of anti-Semitism and
 other forms of ethnic and religious intolerance;
 (4) the newly gained freedom in Romania has allowed the formation of new
 social and political organizations and the establishment of new publications
 free of direct government control;
 (5) this freedom has also given rise to a revival of extremist organizations
 and publications promulgating national chauvinism, ethnic hatred, and
 anti-Semitism;
 (6) Romania's parliament, instead of condemning these developments,
 itself stood in a moment of silence recently for the extreme nationalist
 Ion Antonescu who was responsible for the murder of approximately 250,000
 Romanian Jews and was executed as a war criminal;
 (7) the Nobel Peace laureate author and humanist Elie Wiesel recently visited
 Romania, the country of his birth, to participate in the commemoration of
 the 50th anniversary of the mass murder of Romania's Jews by the Antonescu
 government;
 (8) even that recent solemn commemoration was marred by anti-Semitic heckling
 against Professor Wiesel; and
 (9) these extremist organizations and their activities continue despite
 the Romanian Government's reaffirmation of its commitment to fight against
 discrimination on the grounds of race, color, national origin, or religion.
 (b) CONDEMNATION OF ANTISEMITISM AND ETHNIC ANIMOSITY- The Congress--
 (1) condemns the resurgence of organized anti-Semitism, and ethnic
 animosity in Romania, including the existence of extremist organizations
 and publications dedicated to such repugnant ideas;
 (2) urges the Government of Romania to continue to speak out against
 anti-Semitism and to work actively to promote harmony among Romania's ethnic
 and religious groups;
 (3) calls on the people of Romania to resist the negative appeal of these
 repugnant organizations and their activities and to strengthen the forces
 of tolerance and pluralism existing in Romanian society;
 (4) calls on the Government of Romania to continue to take steps toward
 greater respect for internationally recognized human rights, including the
 rights of minorities; and
 (5) calls on the President of the United States to ensure that progress by
 the Government of Romania in combating anti-Semitism and in protecting the
 rights and safety of its ethnic minorities shall be a significant factor
 in determining levels of assistance to Romania.
SEC. 523. NAGORNO-KARABAKH CRISIS.
 The Congress--
 (1) condemns the attacks by internal security forces and the forces of the
 Azerbaijani government on innocent children, women, and men in Armenian
 areas and communities in and around Nagorno-Karabakh and in Armenia;
 (2) condemns the indiscriminate use of force, including the shelling of
 civilian areas, on Armenia's eastern and southern borders;
 (3) calls for the end of the blockades and other uses of force and
 intimidation directed against Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh, and calls for
 the withdrawal of forces newly deployed for the purpose of intimidation;
 (4) calls for an immediate end to deportations of Armenians from
 Nagorno-Karabakh and the freedom for all refugees to return to their homes;
 (5) calls for dialogue among all parties involved as the only acceptable
 route to achieving a lasting resolution of the conflict;
 (6) reaffirms the commitment of the United States to the success of democracy
 and self-determination in the  Soviet Union and its various republics; and
 (7) expresses its deep concern over acts of retribution or intimidation
 against those republics which are seeking greater independence.
SEC. 524. ANDREI SAKHAROV EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Section 112(a) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural
 Exchange Act of 1961 (relating to the exchange programs managed by the Bureau
 of Educational and Cultural Affairs in the United States Information Agency)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (8);
 (2) by striking out `the period at the end of paragraph (9) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(10) the Andrei Sakharov Educational Exchange Program, to facilitate
 international exchanges and cooperation in the fields of environmental
 protection and the health sciences that involve graduate students who have
 demonstrated a commitment to the application of science in furtherance of
 the humanitarian ideals embodied by Andrei Sakharov.'.
 (b) SEED ACTIONS-
 (1) EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGES- Section 401(a)(1) of the Support for
 East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1961 is amended by inserting `the Andrei
 Sakharov Educational Exchange Program,' after `Memorial Exchange Program,'.
 (2) LIST OF SEED ACTIONS- Section 3(c)(19) of that Act, as so redesignated by
 section 502(a) and section 511 of this Act, is amended by inserting before
 the period `, and participation in exchanges under the Andrei Sakharov
 Educational Exchange Program'.
SEC. 525. CRISIS IN YUGOSLAVIA.
 It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the United States strongly supports the initiatives of the European
 Community to achieve a peaceful, negotiated settlement of the crisis in
 Yugoslavia, including their call for agreement by all parties in Yugoslavia
 on a cease-fire to be observed by monitors mandated by the Conference on
 Security and Cooperation in Europe and the convening of a peace conference;
 (2) all parties to the conflict must implement immediately an unconditional
 cease-fire in Croatia and cooperate fully with the peacekeeping steps
 initiated by the European Community;
 (3) the use of force to solve political differences or to change the internal
 or external borders of Yugoslavia is not acceptable and represents a serious
 violation of international norms and the principles of the Conference on
 Security and Cooperation in Europe process:
 (4) those who resort to force in Yugoslavia will achieve nothing but tragedy
 for the peoples of Yugoslavia and themselves and will only confirm their
 own isolation from the international community;
 (5) the legitimate concerns of all Yugoslav peoples, including Serbs inside
 and outside Serbia, about their future in the event of the disintegration
 of Yugoslavia cannot justify the use of force and repression;
 (6) all peoples of Yugoslavia must resolve their future in a peaceful,
 democratic, and negotiated manner which will preserve the rights of all
 peoples in the country, particularly the full human rights of ethnic
 minorities living in all republics and provinces.
SEC. 526. ANGLO-IRISH INTERNATIONAL FUND.
 (a) ANNUAL REPORTS AND CERTIFICATION- The Anglo-Irish Agreement Support
 Act of 1986 is amended--
 (1) by striking out section 5(c); and
 (2) by amending section 6 to read as follows:
`SEC. 6. ANNUAL REPORTS.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS- At the end of each fiscal year in which the
 United States Government makes any contribution to the International Fund
 (but not later than December 31), the President shall report to the Congress
 on the degree to which--
 `(1) the International Fund has contributed to reconciliation between the
 communities in Northern Ireland;
 `(2) United States contributions to the International Fund are meeting
 their objectives of encouraging new investment, job creation, and economic
 reconstruction on the basis of strict equality of opportunity;
 `(3) the International Fund has increased respect for the human rights and
 fundamental freedoms of all people in Northern Ireland;
 `(4) the Board of the International Fund, as a whole, is broadly
 representative of the interests of the communities in Ireland and Northern
 Ireland; and
 `(5) disbursements from the International Fund--
 `(A) are distributed in accordance with the principle of equality of
 opportunity and nondiscrimination in employment, without regard to religious
 affiliation; and
 `(B) address the needs of both communities in Northern Ireland.
 `(b) INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF THE FUND- The reports submitted pursuant to
 subsection (a) shall discuss the results of any independent reviews that have
 been conducted of the programs and projects supported by the International
 Fund, with particular regard to the achievement of the objectives specified
 in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a).'.
 (b) UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE FUND- Section 532 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title I of this Act) authorizes the
 appropriation of $22,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for
 United States contributions to the International Fund for Ireland pursuant
 to the Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986.
SEC. 527. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN.
 Section 620C of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 620C. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN.
 `(a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS REGARDING CYPRUS SETTLEMENT- The Congress
 declares that the achievement of a just and lasting Cyprus settlement is
 and will remain a central objective of United States foreign policy. The
 Congress finds that--
 `(1) a just settlement on Cyprus must involve the establishment of a free
 and independent government on Cyprus and must provide reasonable guarantees
 that the rights of all the people of Cyprus, including displaced persons,
 are fully protected;
 `(2) a just settlement on Cyprus must include the withdrawal of Turkish
 military forces from Cyprus;
 `(3) the United Nations resolutions regarding Cyprus provide a sound basis
 for negotiation of a just settlement on Cyprus;
 `(4) serious negotiations, under United Nations auspices, will be necessary
 to achieve agreement on, and implementation of, constitutional and territorial
 arrangements critical to a just settlement on Cyprus;
 `(5) the return of the refugees displaced from Famagusta/Varosha is a matter
 of high priority and the United States should actively support the efforts
 of the Secretary General of the United Nations with respect to this issue; and
 `(6) the continued deployment of a United Nations peacekeeping force is
 essential to reducing tensions and maintaining the cease-fire on Cyprus.
 `(b) PRINCIPLES GOVERNING UNITED STATES POLICY- United States policy regarding
 Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey shall be directed toward restoring and maintaining
 a stable and peaceful atmosphere in the Eastern Mediterranean region and
 shall therefore be governed by the following principles:
 `(1) The United States shall actively support the resolution of differences
 through negotiations and internationally established peaceful procedures,
 shall encourage all parties to avoid provocative actions, and shall strongly
 oppose any attempt to resolve disputes through force or threat of force.
 `(2) The United States will accord full support and high priority to efforts,
 including those of the United Nations, to bring about a prompt, peaceful
 settlement on Cyprus.
 `(3) All defense articles furnished by the United States to countries in
 the Eastern Mediterranean region will be used only in accordance with the
 requirements of this Act, the Arms Export Control Act, and the agreements
 under which those defense articles were furnished.
 `(4) The United States will furnish military assistance for Greece and
 Turkey only when furnishing that assistance is intended solely for defensive
 purposes, including when necessary to enable the recipient country to fulfill
 its responsibilities as a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
 and shall be designed to ensure that the present balance of military strength
 between Greece and Turkey is preserved. Nothing in this paragraph shall be
 construed to prohibit the transfer of defense articles to Greece or Turkey
 for legitimate self defense or to enable Greece or Turkey to fulfill their
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization obligations.
 `(5) The United States shall use its influence to ensure the continuation of
 the cease-fire on Cyprus until an equitable negotiated settlement is reached.
 `(6) Any agreement entered into by the United States for the sale or
 other provision of any defense article on the United States Munitions List
 (established pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act) shall
 expressly state that the article is being provided by the United States only
 with the understanding that the article will not be transferred to Cyprus or
 otherwise used to further the severance or division of Cyprus. The President
 shall report to the Congress any substantial evidence that equipment provided
 under any such agreement has been used in a manner inconsistent with the
 purposes of this paragraph.
 `(7) The United States shall use its influence to achieve the withdrawal
 of Turkish military forces from Cyprus in the context of a solution to the
 Cyprus problem.
 `(c) REVIEW AND REPORTS REGARDING PROGRESS TOWARD A SETTLEMENT-
 `(1) CONTINUAL REVIEW- Because progress toward a Cyprus settlement is a
 high priority of United States policy in the Eastern Mediterranean, the
 President and the Congress shall continually review that progress and shall
 determine United States policy in the region accordingly.
 `(2) PERIODIC REPORTS- To facilitate such a review, the President shall
 transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of
 the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, every 90 days, a report on
 progress made toward the conclusion of a negotiated solution of the Cyprus
 problem. Such reports shall include any relevant reports prepared by the
 Secretary General of the United Nations for the Security Council.'.
SEC. 528. ASSISTANCE FOR THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN.
 (a) ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE- Section 532 of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961 (as amended by title I of this Act), relating to economic support
 assistance, authorizes the appropriation of--
 (1) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Cyprus for
 a scholarship program, bicommunal projects, and measures aimed at the
 reunification of the island and designed to reduce tensions and to promote
 peace and cooperation between the two communities on Cyprus; and
 (2) $190,000,000 for each of fiscal year 1992 and 1993 for Turkey.
 (b) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING ASSISTANCE- Section 504 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title II of this Act), relating to
 foreign military financing assistance, authorizes the appropriation of--
 (1) $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Turkey; and
 (2) $350,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Greece.
TITLE VI--MIDDLE EAST
SEC. 601. ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL.
 (a) ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE-
 (1) AUTHORIZED ASSISTANCE LEVEL- This subsection applies with respect to
 the $1,200,000,000 that is authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993 for economic support assistance for Israel by section
 532 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title I of this Act).
 (2) TERMS OF ASSISTANCE- The total amount of such funds allocated for
 Israel each fiscal year shall be made available as a cash transfer on a
 grant basis. Such transfer shall be made on an expedited basis within 30
 days after the beginning of the fiscal year or the date of enactment of
 the Act appropriating such funds, whichever is later. In exercising the
 authority of this paragraph, the President shall ensure that the level of
 cash transfer made to Israel does not cause an adverse impact on the total
 level of nonmilitary exports from the United States to Israel.
 (b) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING ASSISTANCE-
 (1) AUTHORIZED ASSISTANCE LEVEL- This subsection applies with respect to
 the $1,800,000,000 that is authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993 for foreign military financing assistance for Israel
 by section 504 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title
 II of this Act). Such assistance shall be provided on a grant basis.
 (2) EXPEDITED DELIVERY OF ASSISTANCE- The total amount of such funds
 allocated for Israel each fiscal year shall be disbursed within 30 days
 after the beginning of the fiscal year or the date of enactment of the Act
 appropriating such funds, whichever is later.
 (3) ADVANCED WEAPONS SYSTEMS- To the extent that the Government of Israel
 requests that funds be used for such purposes, funds described in paragraph
 (1) shall, as agreed by the Government of Israel and the Government of the
 United States, be available for advanced weapons systems as follows:
 (A) Up to $150,000,000 for each fiscal year shall be available for research
 and development in the United States.
 (B) Up to $475,000,000 for each fiscal year shall be available for procurement
 in Israel of defense articles and defense services, including research
 and development.
 (c) SPECIAL DRAWDOWN AUTHORITY FOR ISRAEL- Section 599B of the Foreign
 Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act,
 1991, is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking out `As a result' and all that follows through `the President'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `During fiscal year 1992, the President', and
 (B) by striking out `of $700,000,000' and all that follows through the
 period and inserting in lieu thereof `that equals the difference between
 $700,000,000 and the value of any such articles, services, and education
 and training that were authorized by the President to be drawndown under
 the authority of this section before the enactment of the International
 Cooperation Act of 1991.'; and
 (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following: `Such report shall
 be submitted at the same time to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
 of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.'.
SEC. 602. ASSISTANCE FOR EGYPT.
 (a) ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE-
 (1) AUTHORIZED ASSISTANCE LEVEL- This subsection applies with respect to
 the $815,000,000 that is authorized to appropriated for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993 for economic support assistance for Egypt by section
 532 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title I of this Act).
 (2) CONDITIONS FOR SECTOR GRANTS- Assistance provided for Egypt with such
 funds may include sector grants only if Egypt implements agreed upon reforms
 in the relevant sector.
 (3) LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE- Notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961, assistance provided for Egypt with funds described
 in paragraph (1) may include support for instruction and training for
 Egyptian civilian law enforcement personnel with respect to human rights,
 democratic pluralism, and comparative criminal justice systems, including
 support for related curriculum development and research. Such assistance
 may be provided only through United States institutions of higher education
 or through the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance
 Program of the United States Department of Justice.
 (b) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING ASSISTANCE- Section 504 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title II of this Act) authorizes the
 appropriation of $1,300,000,000  for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for
 foreign military financing assistance for Egypt. Such assistance shall be
 provided on a grant basis.
SEC. 603. PROMOTING PLURALISM AND DEMOCRACY IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH
AFRICA.
 Of the amounts allocated by the Agency for International Development for
 democratic initiatives and human rights, up to $10,000,000 for each of
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993 shall be used to support the growth of indigenous
 nongovernmental organizations that contribute to increased pluralism,
 democracy, and respect for human rights and the rule of law in the Middle
 East and North Africa.
SEC. 604. WEST BANK AND GAZA PROGRAM.
 Of the amounts made available for economic support assistance, up to
 $16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 shall be available for
 the West Bank and Gaza program.
SEC. 605. MIDDLE EAST COOPERATIVE SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL PROJECTS.
 Section 532 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by title
 I of this Act), relating to economic support assistance, authorizes the
 appropriation of $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for
 regional cooperative programs in the Middle East in accordance with section
 202(c) of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985.
SEC. 606. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
 (a) COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS- Of the amounts made available for
 development assistance, $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and
 1993 should be used to finance cooperative development projects among the
 United States, Israel, and eligible East European countries (as defined in
 section 4 of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989)
 or developing countries.
 (b) COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH PROJECTS- Of the amounts made available
 for development assistance, $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and
 1993 should be used to finance cooperative development research projects
 among the United States, Israel, and eligible East European countries
 (as defined in section 4 of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED)
 Act of 1989) or developing countries.
SEC. 607. ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE ACTIVITIES.
 It is the sense of the Congress that, in order to promote better understanding
 and mutual respect between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples, the United
 States should support educational, cultural, and humanitarian activities that
 bring Israelis together with Palestinians living in the West Bank and Gaza.
SEC. 608. POLICY TOWARD AND ASSISTANCE FOR LEBANON.
 (a) UNITED STATES POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that United States
 policy toward Lebanon should--
 (1) support the unity, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Lebanon;
 (2) work for the immediate release of American hostages seized in Lebanon;
 (3) encourage the Government of Lebanon to undertake political reforms to
 establish representative democratic institutions;
 (4) oppose Syrian control of Lebanon and the use of Lebanese territory by
 Syria for illegal narcotics production and trafficking;
 (5) seek the removal of all Syrian, other Arab, and Iranian troops from
 Lebanon;
 (6) seek the removal of Israeli forces from Lebanon as soon as the Government
 of Lebanon is capable of effectively guaranteeing an end to cross-border
 terrorism;
 (7) provide, under present circumstances, humanitarian and economic
 assistance to the people of Lebanon through United States and international
 private voluntary organizations and to American institutions in Lebanon,
 such as the American University of Beirut,  Beirut University College,
 and International College; and
 (8) ensure that none of the assistance provided to Lebanon benefits the
 Government of Syria.
 (b) ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts available for economic
 support assistance, $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 should
 be made available for Lebanon.
 (c) DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts available for development
 assistance, $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 should be
 made available for Lebanon.
SEC. 609. RESTRICTIONS AND REPORTS WITH REGARD TO SYRIA.
 (a) RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE- United States assistance may not be provided
 to Syria until the President determines, and so reports to the appropriate
 congressional committees, that--
 (1) the Government of Syria has demonstrated its willingness to enter into
 direct bilateral negotiations with the State of Israel;
 (2) the Government of Syria--
 (A) does not deny its citizens, or any segment of its citizens, the right
 or opportunity to emigrate,
 (B) does not impose any tax on emigration or on the visas or other documents
 required for emigration, for any purpose or cause whatsoever, and
 (C) does not impose any tax, levy, fine, or other charge (other than a
 nominal fee for administrative expenses) on any citizen as a consequence
 of the desire of such citizen to emigrate to the country of his or her choice;
 (3) the Government of Syria is assisting the United States Government in
 obtaining the release of American hostages seized in Lebanon;
 (4) the Government of Syria no longer supports groups responsible for acts
 of international terrorism and no longer provides safe haven for terrorists;
 (5) the Government of Syria is withdrawing its armed forces from Lebanon;
 (6) the Government of Syria is no longer acquiring chemical, biological,
 or nuclear weapons, and the President has received credible assurances that
 any such weapons now in the Syrian arsenal will not be used to threaten
 Syria's neighbors;
 (7) the Government of Syria is fully cooperating with United States
 antinarcotics efforts and is taking steps to remove those members of the
 Syrian Government who are involved in the drug trade; and
 (8) the Government of Syria has made progress in improving its record of
 respect for internationally recognized human rights.
 (b) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `United States assistance'
 means United States assistance as defined in section 481(i)(4) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 as in effect immediately prior to the enactment of
 this Act.
SEC. 610. PEACE AND STABILITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
 (a) EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE- It is the sense of the Congress that the United
 States should encourage all Arab states--
 (1) to support actively efforts to achieve peace and stability in the Middle
 East and to settle the Arab-Israeli conflict through direct negotiations; and
 (2) to take specific steps to--
 (A) recognize unequivocally Israel's right to exist as a sovereign nation
 within secure and recognized borders;
 (B) terminate the diplomatic and economic boycott of Israel, including the
 secondary and tertiary economic boycotts;
 (C) cease efforts to expel Israel from international organizations or
 to deny Israel the opportunity to participate in the activities of such
 organizations; and
 (D) terminate assistance to countries or groups that commit or support acts
 of international terrorism.
 (b) ANNUAL REPORTS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICIES- Not later than 12 months
 after the date of enactment of this Act and every 12 months thereafter, the
 Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees
 a report on progress in implementing the policies expressed in subsection (a).
SEC. 611. CUMULATIVE IMPACT ON ISRAEL OF UNITED STATES CONVENTIONAL ARMS
TRANSFERS TO THE MIDDLE EAST.
 Not later than January 31 each year, the President shall submit to the
 appropriate congressional committees a report containing--
 (1) an analysis of the impact on Israel of both United States commercial
 and government-to-government transfers of defense articles and defense
 services to the Middle East;
 (2) a description of the policies being pursued by the United States to
 maintain Israel's qualitative edge; and
 (3) a description of the steps being taken to preserve Israel's qualitative
 edge.
SEC. 612. RESTRICTIONS ON NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE PALESTINE LIBERATION
ORGANIZATION.
 Section 1302 of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act
 of 1985 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by inserting `and amends or supersedes its charter to reflect that
 recognition' after `recognizes Israel's right to exist', and
 (B) by inserting `and ceases' after `renounces'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(c) PLO SUPPORT FOR IRAQ'S INVASION OF KUWAIT- In 1990 the United States,
 along with other members of the United Nations Security Council, condemned
 Iraq's invasion and annexation of Kuwait and called upon Iraq to withdraw
 from Kuwait. In 1991, the United States led a 28 nation coalition in
 military action to eject Iraq from Kuwait and implement the 12 Security
 Council resolutions regarding Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. The Palestine
 Liberation Organization opposed these policies of the United States and
 worked against their implementation.'.
SEC. 613. PLO COMMITMENTS COMPLIANCE.
 (a) REPORT ON PLO ACTIVITIES DURING THE PERSIAN GULF CONFLICT- Not later
 than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall
 submit a report in accordance with subsection (c) containing--
 (1) a description of PLO support (including all statements and activities)
 of the goals and objectives of Saddam Hussein and the Iraqi occupation of
 Kuwait; and
 (2) a description of efforts by the PLO to open a `second front' against
 Israel from Lebanon during the Persian Gulf conflict.
 (b) ANNUAL REPORTS ON PLO TERRORIST ACTIVITIES- Not later than 12 months
 after the date of enactment of this Act and every 12 months thereafter, the
 President shall submit a report in accordance with subsection (c) containing--
 (1) a description of the terrorist acts committed or supported by the PLO;
 (2) a description of actions or statements by the PLO as they relate to
 the Geneva commitments of December 1988 regarding cessation of terrorism
 and recognition of Israel's right to exist, including actions or statements
 that contend that the declared `Palestinian state' encompasses all of Israel;
 (3) a description of the steps, if any, taken by the PLO to evict or
 otherwise discipline individuals or groups taking actions inconsistent with
 the Geneva commitments;
 (4) a statement of whether the PLO, in accordance with procedures in Article
 33 of the Palestinian National Covenant, has repealed provisions in that
 covenant which call for Israel's destruction;
 (5) a statement of whether the PLO has obstructed efforts by any Arab state
 to recognize Israel and enter into direct negotiations with Israel, or end
 its economic boycott of Israel;
 (6) a statement of whether `Force 17' and the `Hawari Group', or other
 units directed by Yasser Arafat that have carried out terrorist attacks,
 have been disbanded and not reconstituted under different names;
 (7) a statement of the PLO's position on the unrest in the West Bank and
 Gaza, and whether the PLO threatens, through violence or other intimidation
 measures, Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza who advocate a cessation
 of, or who do not support, the unrest and who might be receptive to engaging
 in a peace process;
 (8) a statement of the position of the PLO regarding the prosecution and
 extradition, if so requested, of known terrorists such as Abu Abbas, who
 directed the Achille Lauro hijacking during which Leon Klinghoffer was
 murdered, and Muhammed Rashid, implicated in the 1982 bombing of the Pan
 Am jet and the 1986 bombing of a TWA jet in which four Americans were killed;
 (9) a statement of the position of the PLO on providing compensation to
 the United States victims or the families of United States victims of
 PLO terrorism;
 (10) a description of PLO involvement in illicit drug trafficking; and
 (11) a description of the financial resources, assets, and holdings of the
 PLO and the sources of such resources, including the amount of financial
 support from each and every country contributing to the PLO.
 (c) SUBMISSION OF REPORTS- The reports required by this section shall be
 submitted to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the Chairman
 of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. Such reports shall be
 submitted in unclassified form to the maximum extent practicable.
 (d) DEFINITION OF PLO- The term `PLO' includes the Palestine Liberation
 Organization, any of its constituent groups or factions, and any successors
 thereto or agents thereof, including any of its officers, officials,
 representatives, or spokespersons.
SEC. 614. UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION 3379.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the United States should lead an effort
 to repeal United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379 (XXX).
SEC. 615. DEMOCRATIC REFORM AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN KUWAIT.
 (a) REPORT- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the President shall report to the appropriate congressional committees
 whether the Government of Kuwait has taken steps to--
 (1) end the occurrences of arbitrary arrest, torture, and other extrajudicial
 actions;
 (2) bring to justice those responsible for perpetrating such actions;
 (3) ensure that those detained have access to legal counsel, the right to
 an open and speedy trial, and other internationally recognized standards
 of due process of law;
 (4) allow the presence and activities of international human rights and
 humanitarian organizations;
 (5) comply with international law relating to deportations; and
 (6) establish conditions to ensure that the October 1992 elections are free
 and fair, and permit universal suffrage.
 (b) UNITED STATES POLICIES TOWARD KUWAIT- Respect for internationally
 recognized human rights by the Government of Kuwait and the development of
 democratic institutions in Kuwait, including progress on the factors listed in
 paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a), shall be a significant factor
 in the determination of  United States policies toward Kuwait, including
 policies regarding the sale of defense articles and defense services.
SEC. 616. USE OF UNITED STATES SUBCONTRACTORS IN KUWAIT.
 It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) United States businesses engaged in rebuilding Kuwait should, to the
 maximum extent possible, use United States subcontractors and available
 United States goods and services; and
 (2) the Department of Commerce should monitor and encourage the implementation
 of this policy.
SEC. 617. IRAQI WAR CRIMES AND CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the President should confer with
 members of the United Nations Security Council and seek appropriate Security
 Council action to establish an appropriate international tribunal to try all
 individuals, including Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, who were involved in
 the planning or execution of war crimes and crimes against humanity during
 and after Iraq's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait.
SEC. 618. REPORT ON TRANSFERS OF SPOILS OF WAR.
 (a) SUBMISSION; CONTENTS--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the President shall submit to the relevant congressional
 committees a report describing any spoils of war that were obtained subsequent
 to August 2, 1990, and that were transferred (within the meaning of the
 Spoils of War Act of 1991, which is chapter 4 of title II of this Act)
 to any party before the date of enactment of this Act. Such report may be
 submitted in classified or unclassified form.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section, the terms `enemy', `party',
 `relevant congressional committees', and `spoils of war' have the same
 meaning they have for purposes of the Spoils of War Act of 1991.
SEC. 619. 1981 ISRAELI PREEMPTIVE STRIKE AGAINST THE IRAQI NUCLEAR REACTOR
AT OSIRAK.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) on June 7, 1981, the Israeli air force launched a preemptive strike
 against the Iraqi nuclear reactor at Osirak;
 (2) on June 19, 1981, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution
 487 which condemned that Israeli preemptive strike;
 (3) in the years following that Israeli preemptive strike, Iraq demonstrated
 an ability and willingness to use weapons of mass destruction, as evidenced
 by chemical weapons attacks against both Iranian military forces and Kurdish
 Iraqi citizens;
 (4) in 1990, Iraqi President Hussein attempted to illegally acquire
 triggering devices for atomic bombs, and also threatened to use weapons of
 mass destruction against both neighboring Arab countries and Israel;
 (5) in August 1990, Iraq invaded and occupied Kuwait, demonstrating a
 continuing policy of aggression;
 (6) after United States-led coalition forces attacked the Iraqi forces on
 January 16, 1991, Iraq attempted to draw Israel, a nonbelligerent country,
 into the conflict by launching 42 Scud missiles at Israel; and
 (7) there is no evidence that the Israeli preemptive strike against the
 Iraqi nuclear reactor at Osirak delayed efforts to resolve the Arab-Israeli
 conflict.
 (b) POLICY DECLARATIONS- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the 1981 Israeli preemptive strike against the Iraqi nuclear reactor at
 Osirak was a legitimate and justifiable exercise of self-defense which also
 reduced the threat of Iraqi nuclear aggression against countries bordering
 Iraq; and
 (2) the United States should seek the repeal of United Nations Security
 Council Resolution 487 which condemned that 1981 Israeli preemptive strike.
TITLE VII--LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
CHAPTER 1--CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Subchapter A--Central America
SEC. 701. PROMOTING CENTRAL AMERICAN RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Congress accepts with confidence that the countries
 of Central America will successfully direct their own economic and
 human resources to build and maintain the political, social, and
 economic institutions necessary to achieve peace and prosperity for
 their people. Accordingly, it shall be the policy of the United States
 to encourage and support the Central American countries in their efforts
 to build democracy, restore peace, establish respect for human rights,
 expand economic opportunities through the achievement of sustained and
 sustainable development, and improve living conditions in the countries
 of Central America. It further shall be the policy of the United States
 to support and encourage dialogue as the proper means of resolving armed
 conflicts in Central America.
 (b) UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF AN INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM
 FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT- In order to build upon the
 programs established pursuant to the National Bipartisan Commission on Central
 America and to establish a Central American Recovery and Development Program,
 it shall be the policy of the United States, consistent with implementation
 of the Esquipulas, Tesoro Beach, Tela, San Isidro, and Montelimar Accords and
 the Antigua Declaration, to assist in the implementation of recommendations
 of the International Commission on Central American Recovery and Development,
 including proposals--
 (1) to provide additional economic assistance to the countries of Central
 America to assist with relocation and resettlement of refugees and other
 displaced persons in the region, expand educational opportunity and access to
 health care, foster progress in respect for human rights, bolster democratic
 institutions, strengthen institutions of justice, conserve natural resources
 and protect the environment, and otherwise promote sustainable economic
 development;
 (2) to facilitate the ability of the economies of individual Central
 American countries to grow through the development of the infrastructure
 of those countries, expansion of exports, and strengthening of investment
 opportunities, goals which are enhanced by the Caribbean Basin Economic
 Recovery Expansion Act of 1990; and
 (3) to develop those initiatives in concert with the governments of Central
 America, Western Europe, Japan, Canada, and other democracies.
 (c) REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS- Consistent with the recommendations of
 the International Commission on Central American Recovery and Development,
 it shall be the policy of the United States to support, participate in,
 and contribute to the United Nations Development Program for its Special
 Plan of Economic Cooperation for Central America, which is designed to--
 (1) reintegrate the displaced and refugee populations,
 (2) create employment opportunities, and
 (3) establish a system to ensure adequate food supplies and health facilities
 for the poor.
 (d) MULTILATERAL AND REGIONAL COOPERATION-
 (1) MULTILATERAL COOPERATION- It shall be the policy of the United States
 to encourage and secure greater international cooperation and support for
 implementing the recommendations of the International Commission on Central
 American Recovery and Development. In carrying out this policy, the President
 should exert continued leadership in multilateral and regional forums and at
 economic summits to further multidonor responses to the pressing development
 needs in Central America.
 (2) PARTNERSHIP FOR DEMOCRACY AND DEVELOPMENT- It further shall be the
 policy of the United States to help organize a partnership among donor
 countries and the Central American countries to provide a coordinated,
 organized means of mobilizing resources and promoting a forum for dialogue
 about issues of development, democracy, social justice, and human rights.
 (3) REGIONAL COOPERATION- If requested by the governments of Central
 America, the United States, in an effort to support full participation in a
 partnership for democracy and development, shall provide appropriate support
 and assistance for the development of a coordination mechanism for Central
 America which includes participation of governments and nongovernmental
 organizations. Such mechanism has been designated as the Central American
 Development Coordination Commission (CADCC) by the International Commission
 on Central American Recovery and Development.
SEC. 702. ASSISTANCE FOR GUATEMALA.
 (a) PROHIBITION FOR MILITARY ASSISTANCE- Foreign military financing assistance
 may not be provided for Guatemala for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, except as
 provided in subsection (b) which authorizes the transfer of certain funds
 to the Lasting Peace Fund for Guatemala.
 (b) Fund in Support of Transition to Lasting Peace-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established in the Treasury of the
 United States a fund, to be known as the Lasting Peace Fund for Guatemala,
 to assist with the costs of implementing provisions of a peace agreement
 reached pursuant to the procedures specified in the Accord of Mexico (which
 provides for `a firm and lasting peace agreement that would include political
 agreements, implementation of such by the parties, and verification terms
 set by the National Reconciliation Commission, the United Nations, and
 other international organizations to be designated by the parties by common
 agreement') and in fulfillment of the Accord of Oslo or other subsequent
 accords reached by the parties to the conflict.
 (2) TRANSFER OF CERTAIN MILITARY ASSISTANCE FUNDS- For each of fiscal years
 1992 and 1993, the President may transfer to the Fund, from amounts made
 available under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of paragraph (4).
 (3) CONDITIONS FOR USE OF FUNDS- Amounts in the Fund shall be available
 for obligation and expenditure only upon notification by the President to
 the appropriate congressional committees that the Government of Guatemala
 and representatives of the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG)
 have signed an agreement providing for a `lasting peace agreement' pursuant
 to the Accord of Mexico and in fulfillment of the Accord of Oslo or any
 other subsequent accords reached by the parties to the conflict.
 (4) USE OF FUND- Amounts transferred to the Fund are authorized to be used
 for, and shall be available only for--
 (A) costs of retraining, relocation, and reemployment in civilian pursuits of
 former combatants and noncombatants affected by the conflict in Guatemala, and
 (B) costs of monitoring activities associated with provisions set forth
 in an agreement for lasting peace pursuant to the Accord of Mexico and in
 fulfillment of the Accord of Oslo or other subsequent accords reached by
 the parties to the conflict.
 (5) DEFINITIONS- As used in this subsection--
 (A) the term `Accord of Mexico' means the Accord on the Procedure to Attain
 Peace Through Peaceful Means agreed to by the parties in Mexico City on
 April 26, 1991;
 (B) the term `Accord of Oslo' means the Accord of Oslo of March 30, 1990; and
 (C) the term `Fund' means the Lasting Peace Fund for Guatemala established
 pursuant to this subsection.
 (c) PROHIBITION RELATING TO MILITARY SALES AND COMMERCIAL SALES- During
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the authority of the Arms Export Control Act
 may not be used to sell to the Government of Guatemala and licenses may
 not be issued under section 38 of that Act for the export to Guatemala of--
 (1) any weapons or ammunition; or
 (2) any aircraft, unless those aircraft are unarmed and the Government of
 Guatemala has agreed that those aircraft will not be armed.
 (d) ECONOMIC AND FOOD ASSISTANCE-
 (1) LIMITATIONS- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, development assistance,
 economic support assistance, and assistance under the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 that is provided for Guatemala--
 (A) may be provided to and used only by civilian government agencies and
 nongovernmental organizations;
 (B) shall be targeted for assistance--
 (i) for programs that directly address poverty, basic human needs, and
 environmental concerns;
 (ii) to improve the performance of democratic institutions or otherwise to
 promote pluralism;
 (iii) for the National Reconciliation Commission;
 (iv) for fiscal reform and fiscal administration; or
 (v) for programs that promote foreign and domestic trade and investment; and
 (C) may not be used for partisan political purposes or as an instrument
 of counterinsurgency.
 (2) WAIVER- The President may waive subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) if
 the President reports to the appropriate congressional committees that the
 Government of Guatemala has made significant progress toward eliminating
 human rights violations and in investigating and bringing to trial those
 responsible for major human rights cases, such as those relating to Sister
 Dianna Ortiz, Michael Devine and Myrna Mack.
 (3) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF CERTAIN ASSISTANCE- Funds may be obligated for
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993 pursuant to a waiver under paragraph (2) only
 if the appropriate congressional committees are notified at least 15 days
 in advance of such obligation in accordance with the procedures applicable
 to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961.
SEC. 703. ASSISTANCE FOR NICARAGUA.
 (a) CONSIDERATIONS IN PROVIDING ASSISTANCE- Prior to providing assistance
 to Nicaragua for fiscal year 1992 or 1993 under the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961, the President should take into account the extent to which the
 Government of Nicaragua has--
 (1) brought the Nicaraguan armed forces under full civilian control,
 including--
 (A) effectively eliminating the influence of political parties within the
 military command; and
 (B) stemming the illegal export of lethal equipment consistent with Nicaraguan
 obligations in the Central American peace process; and
 (2) undertaken thorough and professional investigations into, and prosecution
 of those responsible for, human rights violations including--
 (A) the deaths or disappearances of former members of the Nicaraguan
 resistance; and
 (B) the February 1991 murder of Enrique Bermudez.
 (b) CONSIDERATIONS IN PROVIDING MILITARY ASSISTANCE- In providing any
 foreign military financing assistance to the Government of Nicaragua for
 fiscal year 1992 or 1993, the President should consider the extent to which
 such assistance will further the goals of strengthening civilian control
 over the military, ending human rights abuses, and stemming the export of
 lethal military equipment.
 (c) ASSISTANCE TO MEMBERS OF THE SANDINISTA POPULAR ARMY- Notwithstanding any
 other provision of law, assistance provided under the Foreign Assistance Act
 for 1961 for fiscal year 1992 or 1993 may not be used by or made available,
 directly or indirectly, for use by members of the Sandinista Popular Army
 unless specifically requested and authorized in advance by the President of
 Nicaragua. Such requests shall be provided to the appropriate congressional
 committees within 15 days of receipt by the Secretary of State; and the
 appropriate congressional committees shall be notified at least 15 days
 before any funds are obligated for any such assistance in accordance with
 the procedures applicable to reprogramming notification under section 634A
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (d) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE TO MEMBERS OF THE NICARAGUAN RESISTANCE- During
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993, assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of
 1961 may not be provided for any member of the Nicaraguan resistance who
 has not disarmed or is not abiding by the terms of the cease-fire agreement
 and the addenda to the Toncontin Agreement signed on April 19, 1990.
 (e) WAIVER OF BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993,
 section 691(a)(5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and any similar
 provision of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
 Appropriations Act for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, shall not apply with
 respect to assistance for Nicaragua under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (f) EXPROPRIATION CLAIMS- It is the sense of the Congress that the Government
 of Nicaragua should expedite the processing of claims by private citizens
 based on expropriation of property by the former Sandinista government.
SEC. 704. ASSISTANCE FOR REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS.
 Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for economic support assistance
 for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 that are made available for bilateral or
 regional programs for Central America, a total of $25,000,000 may be made
 available through organizations such as the United Nations High Commissioner
 for Refugees and the United Nations Development Program to carry out programs
 within the framework established by the Concerted Plan of Action in Favor of
 Central American Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons, such plan having
 resulted from the International Conference on Central American Refugees
 (CIREFCA) convened in May 1989 as an element of the Esquipulas peace process.
SEC. 705. ASSISTANCE FOR DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATURES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Central American countries of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
 Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama all have freely elected governments and freely
 elected legislatures for the first time in the history of Central America;
 (2) the Central American legislatures face economic, political, social, and
 institutional challenges in fulfilling their constitutional responsibilities;
 and
 (3) the lack of equipment and resources poses an additional challenge
 for Central American legislatures in fulfilling their constitutional
 responsibilities.
 (b) STRENGTHENING DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATURES- It is the sense of the Congress
 that--
 (1) consistent with section 281(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
 the United States should seek to strengthen the democratic legislatures in
 Central America by using foreign assistance funds made available under that
 Act to provide equipment and training to those legislatures; and
 (2) efforts to support legislatures in Central America should be coordinated
 with and otherwise involve appropriately qualified private and public
 sector experts.
SEC. 706. CENTRAL AMERICAN JOURNALISM PROGRAM AND THE REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION
OF JUSTICE PROGRAM.
 Of the aggregate amounts authorized to be appropriated for development
 assistance and economic support assistance for Latin America and the
 Caribbean, $2,800,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 should be
 used for assistance to the Central American Journalism Program and Regional
 Administration of Justice Program's Center for the Administration of Justice
 to support democracy building activities in the region.
SEC. 707. POLICY ON MILITARY BASE RIGHTS IN PANAMA.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Panama Canal is a vital strategic asset to the United States and
 its allies;
 (2) the Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neutrality and Operation of the
 Panama Canal and the Panama Canal Treaty, both signed on September 7, 1977,
 mandate that (A) no United States troops are to remain in Panama after
 December 31, 1999; (B) the Canal Zone is to be incorporated into Panama; (C)
 United States Panama-based communications facilities are to be phased out;
 (D) all United States training in Panama of Latin American soldiers is to
 be halted; and (E) management and operational control of the Canal is to
 be turned over to Panamanian authorities;
 (3) the government of President Guillermo Endara has demonstrated its
 determination to restore democracy to Panama by quickly moving to implement
 changes in the nation's political, economic, and judicial systems;
 (4) friendly cooperative relations currently exist between the United States
 and the Republic of Panama;
 (5) the region has a history of unstable governments which pose a threat to
 the future operation of the Panama Canal, and the United States must have
 the discretion and the means to defend the Canal and ensure its continuous
 operation and availability to the military and commercial shipping of the
 United States and its allies in times of crisis;
 (6) the Panama Canal is vulnerable to disruption and closure by unforeseen
 events in Panama, by terrorist attack, and by air strikes or other attack
 by foreign powers;
 (7) the United States fleet depends upon the Panama Canal for rapid transit
 ocean to ocean in times of emergency, as demonstrated during World War
 II, the Korean Conflict, the Vietnam Conflict, the Cuban Missile Crisis,
 and the Persian Gulf Conflict, thereby saving 13,000 miles and three weeks
 steaming effort around Cape Horn;
 (8) the presence of the United States Armed Forces offers a viable defense
 against sabotage or other threat to the Panama Canal; and
 (9) the 10,000 United States military personnel now based in Panama,
 including the headquarters of the United States Southern Command, cannot
 remain there beyond December 31, 1999, without a new agreement with Panama.
 (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the President--
 (1) should begin negotiations with the Government of Panama, at a mutually
 acceptable time, to consider whether the two Governments should allow the
 permanent stationing of United States military forces in Panama beyond
 December 31, 1999; and
 (2) should consult with the Congress throughout those negotiations.
Subchapter B--The Caribbean
SEC. 711. CARIBBEAN REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
 Part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by chapter 6 of
 title IV of this Act, is amended by inserting after chapter 5 the following:
`CHAPTER 6--CARIBBEAN REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
`SEC. 461. SHORT TITLE.
 `This chapter may be cited as the `Caribbean Regional Development Act
 of 1991'.
`SEC. 462. UNITED STATES POLICIES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- It is the sense of the Congress that it should be the
 policy of the United States in providing development and other economic
 assistance to the Caribbean--
 `(1) to help the poor to participate in the development of their societies
 through a process of equitable economic growth that enables them to increase
 their incomes and their access to productive resources and services, to
 protect and advance their rights, and to influence decisions that affect
 their lives;
 `(2) to support development that is environmentally sustainable;
 `(3) to promote Caribbean self-reliance by providing assistance to indigenous
 national and regional governmental and nongovernmental institutions that
 have the capacity or potential to carry out development programs effectively;
 `(4) to support food production for national and regional consumption;
 `(5) to promote the diversification of industrial and agricultural production,
 the development of new products, and the integration of agricultural
 production with the development of industry and tourism;
 `(6) to help advance the process of regional economic integration; and
 `(7) to preserve and reinforce traditional Caribbean culture and social
 values.
 `(b) SUPPORTING INDIGENOUS DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS- Priority in providing
 development assistance to the Caribbean should be given to supporting
 indigenous democratic Caribbean institutions that represent, work with,
 and benefit the poor, and through which the poor participate in making the
 decisions that affect their lives and their development. Such assistance
 should be channeled, as appropriate, through United States institutions
 and Caribbean regional and national institutions that directly fund such
 democratic Caribbean institutions.
`SEC. 463. PRIORITY AREAS FOR ASSISTANCE.
 `To implement the policies set forth in section 462, priority in the
 allocation of development assistance funds and the economic support
 assistance funds for the Caribbean, and in the allocation of the local
 currencies accruing as a result of the use of those funds, should be given
 to the following:
 `(1) INCREASED FOOD PRODUCTION- Support to national ministries of agriculture,
 the appropriate specialized agencies of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM)
 and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, the Caribbean Development
 Bank, and indigenous nongovernmental organizations for efforts to achieve
 increased food production, as appropriate, through increased staple food
 production for domestic consumption, including support for--
 `(A) the gathering of agricultural data;
 `(B) the coordination of agricultural research;
 `(C) the improvement of marketing, storage, and transportation systems;
 `(D) the provision of credit to agricultural producers; and
 `(E) improved coordination of regional planning for increased food production.
 `(2) RURAL DEVELOPMENT- Support for rural development efforts designed to
 increase rural employment opportunities, enhance the quality of rural life,
 and retard rural-to-urban migration, including programs that provide access
 to land and necessary assistance to small producers and cooperatives.
 `(3) COMMUNITY-BASED AGROINDUSTRIES- Support for locally owned cooperative
 and other small- and medium-scale industries engaged in the processing of
 indigenous resources, including support for the establishment of a marketing
 network to facilitate intraregional trade in food through programs that
 incorporate or serve small producers.
 `(4) FINANCIAL RESOURCES FOR SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SIZED FARM AND MANUFACTURING
 ENTERPRISES- Provision of financial resources to small- and medium-sized
 farm and manufacturing enterprises through--
 `(A) the creation and capitalization of appropriate financial mechanisms; and
 `(B) measures to encourage Caribbean commercial banks and credit unions to
 provide risk capital to such enterprises.
 `(5) EXPANSION OF TOURISM- Support for the expansion of tourism in
 the Caribbean through its fuller integration into the local economy, by
 providing assistance--
 `(A) to appropriate governmental and nongovernmental regional organizations
 for the design and coordination of programs for--
 `(i) the expansion of the use of local goods and services;
 `(ii) the development and implementation of a marketing strategy for tourism
 in the Caribbean; and
 `(iii) the promotion of investments in tourism integrated with the local
 economy; and
 `(B) for training and utilizing local expertise in hotel and restaurant
 management and other necessary skills.
 `(6) REGIONAL INTEGRATION- Support for regional integration and institutions,
 including seeking the cooperation of other donor countries in promoting
 regional development in the Caribbean and including support for--
 `(A) efforts to regionalize and coordinate activities and prevent the
 proliferation and duplication of regional bureaucracies;
 `(B) the efforts of governmental and nongovernmental regional institutions
 to strengthen the infrastructure necessary to promote regional commercial
 activity and economic and social development;
 `(C) regional research institutes; and
 `(D) inter-island transportation and communication links, roads, and port
 facilities.
 `(7) UPGRADING TECHNICAL AND MANAGERIAL SKILLS- Support for efforts of the
 countries of the Caribbean to upgrade the technical and managerial skills
 of their people.
 `(8) NATURAL RESOURCE BASE- Promoting those small-scale, affordable,
 agricultural and industrial methods suited to local environmental, resource,
 and climatic conditions, and supporting such actions as the establishment of
 protected areas, the development of environmental curricula, and programs of
 public education and dialogue designed to sustain and enhance the renewable
 natural resource base of the Caribbean.
 `(9) PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT- Support for the diversification and
 promotion of Caribbean exports, for investments in the Caribbean that are
 appropriate to the needs of each country and of the region, and for the
 strengthening of private sector institutions, that would continue to promote
 private sector-led growth through increased trade and investment and that
 recognizes each country's economic comparative advantage; and support for
 the strengthening of community-based enterprises that would promote economic
 growth that benefits the majority of the people of the region.
 `(10) DEMOCRATIC DEVELOPMENT AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE- Support to
 broaden and deepen democratic institutions and values in the Caribbean and
 to assist countries in areas such as the administration of justice where
 requested by the recipient governments.
 `(11) ACCESS TO HUMAN SERVICES AND ASSISTANCE FOR HUMAN RESOURCES
 DEVELOPMENT- Support for the provision of basic services to the citizens
 of the Caribbean using, as appropriate, governmental and nongovernmental
 entities, with emphasis on sustainability of service delivery in areas such
 as basic education, primary health care, child survival, family planing,
 and prevention and control of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
`SEC. 464. PROTECTION OF WORKER RIGHTS.
 `In considering whether to provide assistance under this Act to the government
 of any country in the Caribbean and in considering how much assistance to
 allocate to such government, the President shall take into account whether
 such government has failed to extend, protect, and enforce internationally
 recognized worker rights for workers in that country (including workers
 within any designated zone) and, if so, whether such government is taking
 steps to adopt and implement laws that demonstrate significant, tangible,
 and measurable overall advancement in providing internationally recognized
 worker rights throughout the country (including in any designated zone).
`SEC. 465. PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
 `The agency primarily responsible for administering this part should not
 provide any assistance, directly or indirectly, for the use of any chemical
 or other substance in a country in the Caribbean if--
 `(1) that use is not permitted under laws of that country relating to
 protection of public health, or
 `(2) that use would not be permitted in the United States under laws of
 the United States relating to protection of public health.
`SEC. 466. SUPPORT FOR WOMEN'S ROLE IN DEVELOPMENT.
 `In providing assistance to the Caribbean, the agency primarily responsible
 for administering this part should place emphasis on ensuring the active
 participation of Caribbean women in the development process, particularly
 through--
 `(1) the promotion of greater access by women to productive resources and
 services, such as land, credit, and markets;
 `(2) programs that respond to and support women's domestic needs and
 activities, including the strengthening of community-based education, health,
 and childcare programs and other critical social services identified by
 poor women; and
 `(3) the involvement of Caribbean women in research on the factors that
 contribute to their economically vulnerable situation and in programs that
 address these factors.
`SEC. 467. CONSULTATION.
 `In implementation of assistance policies, programs, and projects in the
 Caribbean, the agency primarily responsible for administering this part
 should take into account the perspectives of the rural and urban poor through
 consultation with Caribbean organizations that work with the poor and that
 have demonstrated effectiveness in or commitment to the promotion of local,
 grassroots activities on behalf of long-term development in the Caribbean,
 as described in section 462(a). The agency should reflect the results of
 such consultations in its annual planning documents.
`SEC. 468. DEFINITION OF CARIBBEAN.
 `As used in this chapter, the term `Caribbean' includes Anguilla, Antigua
 and Barbuda, Aruba, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Dominican
 Republic, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and
 the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Cayman Islands, Montserrat,
 Netherlands Antilles, Saint Christopher-Nevis, Turks and Caicos Islands,
 and the British Virgin Islands.'.
SEC. 712. ASSISTANCE FOR HAITI.
 (a) HAITI'S DEMOCRATIC TRANSITION- The Congress congratulates--
 (1) the Haitian people for accomplishing Haiti's first transition to
 democracy;
 (2) President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was elected by the Haitian people
 as their first democratically elected President;
 (3) the Haitian military, which abided by the Haitian Constitution and
 supported the democratic transition; and
 (4) the private voluntary organizations that remained in Haiti under
 difficult circumstances and which will have a significant role to play in
 Haiti's democratic future.
 (b) UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE- It is the sense of the Congress that the
 United States should provide assistance to the Government of Haiti so
 long as it abides by the Haitian Constitution and respects freedom of
 expression and human rights, and should continue to provide assistance
 to Haitian private voluntary organizations, in order to assist Haiti in
 institutionalizing democracy and to promote economic development that will
 benefit the Haitian people.
 (c) AMOUNTS OF ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE- It is the sense of the Congress that,
 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the United States should provide
 a total of $100,000,000 in economic assistance for Haiti under the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 and the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954, including $35,000,000 in economic support assistance and
 $40,000,000 in development assistance.
 (d) MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES-
 (1) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- At least 15 days before obligating any funds for
 foreign military financing assistance for Haiti and at least 15 days before
 issuing any letter of offer to Haiti under the Arms Export Control Act,
 the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees in
 accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
 under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (2) PROHIBITION ON NONLETHAL ASSISTANCE- Foreign military financing assistance
 may not be provided to the Haitian military for fiscal years 1992 and 1993,
 except for nonlethal assistance. Any nonlethal assistance is subject to the
 requirements of paragraph (1) and section 284 (relating to strengthening
 civilian control over the military in Latin America and the Caribbean,
 as enacted by chapter 3 of this title).
SEC. 713. HAITIAN SUGAR CANE HARVESTERS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
 (a) UNITED STATES POLICY- It shall be the policy of the United States to
 encourage the Government of the Dominican Republic to act expeditiously
 and forcefully to improve respect for the internationally recognized human
 rights of Haitian laborers engaged in the sugar cane harvesting industry
 in the Dominican Republic, including--
 (1) the enforcement of provisions in the individual work contracts mandated
 by President Balaguer's decree of October 15, 1990, including minimum wage
 requirements, prohibitions on the use of child labor, and guaranteed freedom
 of movement;
 (2) the termination of the deceptive recruitment, and the forcible assembly
 and transportation to sugar cane plantations, of Haitians who are at the
 border between Haiti and the Dominican Republic or are within the Dominican
 Republic;
 (3) actions to ensure that personnel employed by, or under contract with,
 the Government of the Dominican Republic do not carry firearms in the
 ordinary course of transporting or supervising Haitian workers engaged in
 sugar cane harvesting;
 (4) measures to ensure that the military forces and police of the Dominican
 Republic act in strict accordance with Dominican law, and refrain from all
 arbitrary and oppressive conduct, with respect to Haitian workers; and
 (5) implementation of provisions to permit any individual entitled to
 citizenship under the Constitution of the Dominican Republic to obtain a
 birth certificate and any other document needed to remain and work in the
 Dominican Republic.
 (b) WITHHOLDING OF ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts made available for economic
 support assistance for the Dominican Republic for each of fiscal years
 1992 and 1993, $1,000,000 shall be withheld from expenditure until the
 President reports to the appropriate congressional committees on the steps
 taken by the Government of the Dominican Republic to improve respect for
 the internationally recognized human rights of Haitian laborers engaged
 in the sugar cane harvesting industry in the Dominican Republic, including
 the enforcement of the provisions mandated by President Balaguer's decree
 of October 15, 1990.
 (c) SUGAR QUOTA- The President should consider increasing the Dominican
 Republic's annual allocation of the United States sugar quota for each of
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993, and providing additional economic and development
 assistance in such fiscal years that may be available if the Government of
 the Dominican Republic makes significant progress in the areas enumerated
 in subsection (a).
SEC. 714. ASSISTANCE FOR GUYANA.
 (a) RESTRICTION- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, assistance may be provided
 to the Government of Guyana under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or
 the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 only if the
 President reports to the appropriate congressional committees that the
 Government of Guyana is in power as a result of free and fair elections. In
 making such a determination, the President shall, if appropriate, take into
 account the findings of international observers with respect to the elections.
 (b) EXCEPTIONS- Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to--
 (1) international narcotics control assistance; or
 (2) assistance for the holding of free and fair elections.
 (c) ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE FOLLOWING INSTALLATION OF A DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
 GOVERNMENT- It is the sense of the Congress that, following submission
 of a report pursuant to subsection (a), the United States should provide
 economic assistance for Guyana under chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to development assistance), chapter 4
 of part II of that Act (relating to the economic support fund), and the
 Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954.
 (d) ASSISTANCE FOR BASIC HUMAN NEEDS-
 (1) AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE- Of the assistance described in paragraph (2),
 at least $3,000,000 should be used for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993
 to meet basic human needs in Guyana. Such assistance may be provided only
 through nongovernmental organizations or (if a report is made under subsection
 (a)) through the Government of Guyana.
 (2) SOURCES OF ASSISTANCE- Paragraph (1) applies with respect to development
 assistance, economic support assistance, or assistance under title II
 or title III (including the use of local currency proceeds) under the
 Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954.
SEC. 715. DEMOCRACY IN SURINAME.
 The Congress--
 (1) condemns the armed forces of Suriname for the December 1990 coup and
 for their historic disregard for civilian authority;
 (2) strongly urges the armed forces of Suriname to permit a peaceful transfer
 of power to the duly elected civilian government following the elections
 held on May 25, 1991; and
 (3) calls upon the President to withhold United States assistance from
 Suriname until such a peaceful transfer of power has taken place, and to
 use such assistance to bolster civilian rule and to encourage the military
 to permit the civilian government to exercise genuine authority.
SEC. 716. HUMAN RIGHTS IN CUBA.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
 (1) On March 6, 1991, the United Nations Human Rights Commission passed a
 resolution, 22 to 6 with 15 abstentions, requesting the Secretary General to
 name a special representative to monitor the human rights situation in Cuba.
 (2) The resolution mandates the special representative to `maintain direct
 contact with the Government and citizens of Cuba' and to report the results
 to the Commission in 1992.
 (3) The Cuban Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Commission Raul
 Roa stated at the time that Cuba would not accept `a single letter or comma'
 of the resolution.
 (4) On July 2, 1991, the Secretary General of the United Nations appointed
 Rafael Rivas Posada, a former Colombian legislator and member of the 1988
 Cuba Working Group of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, to
 serve as special representative and, at that time, the Cuban Government
 again rejected the mandate of the resolution and indicated its continued
 unwillingness to cooperate with the special representative.
 (5) The continued widespread denial of human rights by the Government of
 Cuba continues to be of great concern to the people and the Congress of
 the United States.
 (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- The Congress--
 (1) applauds the actions of the United Nations Human Rights Commission of
 March 6, 1991; and
 (2) calls on the Government of Cuba to cooperate fully with the special
 representative of the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
SEC. 717. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN CERTAIN UNITED STATES
SUBSIDIARIES AND CUBA.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no license may be issued for
 any transaction described in section 515.559 of title 31, Code of Federal
 Regulations, as in effect on July 1, 1989, unless a license may be issued for
 such transaction where undertaken by a firm organized under the laws of any
 of the States of the United States, except that this section applies only
 with respect to a foreign subsidiary or affiliate (including any permanent
 foreign establishment) of a domestic concern which is controlled in fact
 by such domestic concern (as determined under regulations of the President).
Subchapter C--Provisions Relating to Both Central America and the Caribbean
SEC. 721. MILITARY AIRCRAFT TRANSFERS.
 (a) NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFERS BY THE UNITED STATES- During fiscal years
 1992 and 1993, the appropriate congressional committees shall be notified
 in writing at least 15 days in advance if--
 (1) the authorities of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or
 the Arms Export Control Act are to be used to make available to any country
 in Central America and the Caribbean any helicopters or other aircraft for
 military use, or
 (2) licenses are to be issued under section 38 of the Arms Export Control
 Act for the export of any such aircraft to any country in Central America
 and the Caribbean.
 (b) NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFERS BY OTHER COUNTRIES- During fiscal years 1992
 and 1993, the Secretary of State shall promptly notify the appropriate
 congressional committees whenever any helicopters or other aircraft for
 military use are provided to any country in Central America and the Caribbean
 by any foreign country.
CHAPTER 2--SOUTH AMERICA
Subchapter A--Andean Initiative
SEC. 731. ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS FOR
ANDEAN COUNTRIES.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE- Of the aggregate amounts authorized to be
 appropriated for development assistance and economic support assistance,
 $275,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 are authorized to
 be appropriated for Andean countries.
 (b) PRIORITIES IN USE OF ASSISTANCE- In addition to the use of funds pursuant
 to subsection (c), priority in the use of funds that are allocated for
 Bolivia and Peru under subsection (a) shall be given to support programs
 that focus on providing coca farmers with alternative sources of income,
 including the introduction of alternative crops, agricultural research and
 extension, the provision of credit, assistance with land titles, agroindustry,
 microenterprise development, and infrastructure development.
 (c) ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS-
 (1) ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR BOLIVIA, COLOMBIA, AND PERU- Of the funds
 appropriated for economic support assistance under subsection (a), up to
 $16,000,000 for each fiscal year should be used to provide assistance for
 Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru--
 (A) pursuant to section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating
 to assistance for law enforcement); and
 (B) pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection.
 (2) PROTECTION AGAINST NARCOTERRORIST ATTACKS- Funds used in accordance
 with paragraph (1) may be used, notwithstanding section 660 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to the prohibition on assistance to
 law enforcement agencies), to provide to Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru
 such assistance as the government of that country may request to provide
 protection against narco-terrorist attacks on judges, other government
 officials, and members of the press.
 (3) ASSISTANCE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS OFFICES- Up to a total of $1,000,000 of the
 funds used in accordance with paragraph (1) each fiscal year should be used
 to provide training, technical assistance, and equipment--
 (A) for the Office of Special Investigations and the Special Prosecutor for
 Human Rights, both of which are within the Office of the Attorney General
 of the Government of Colombia; and
 (B) for the Office of Human Rights in the Office of the Attorney General
 of the Government of Peru.
 (4) RELATION TO SECTION 534(g) FUNDS- The authority to use funds provided
 in paragraph (1) of this subsection is in addition to the authority provided
 in section 534(g) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (5) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY- Funds allocated for use in accordance with
 paragraph (1) of this subsection shall remain available until expended
 notwithstanding any other provision of law.
SEC. 732. MILITARY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE FOR ANDEAN COUNTRIES.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated
 for foreign military financing assistance, $118,000,000 for each of the
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993 are authorized to be appropriated for assistance
 for Andean countries.
 (b) PURPOSES OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance under subsection (a) shall be
 designed to--
 (1) enhance the ability of the government of the recipient country to
 control illicit narcotics production and trafficking;
 (2) strengthen the bilateral ties of the United States with that government
 by offering concrete assistance in this area of great mutual concern;
 (3) strengthen respect for internationally recognized human rights and
 the rule of law in efforts to control illicit narcotics production and
 trafficking; and
 (4) assist the armed forces of the Andean countries in their support roles
 for those countries' law enforcement agencies, which are charged with
 the main responsibility for the control of illicit narcotics production
 and trafficking.
 (c) CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY- Assistance may be provided for an Andean
 country under subsection (a) only--
 (1) so long as that country has a democratic government; and
 (2) the government of that country, including the armed forces and law
 enforcement agencies, does not engage in a consistent pattern of gross
 violations of internationally recognized human rights.
 (d) LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT- Subject to subsection (e),
 funds made available to carry out subsection (a) may be used--
 (1) to provide to law enforcement units, that are organized for the specific
 purpose of narcotics enforcement, education and training in the operation
 and maintenance of equipment used in narcotics control interdiction and
 eradication efforts;
 (2) for the expenses of deploying, upon the request of the Government of
 Bolivia, the Government of Colombia, or the Government of Peru, Department
 of Defense mobile training teams in that country to conduct training in
 military-related individual and collective skills that will enhance that
 country's ability to conduct tactical operations in narcotics interdiction;
 and
 (3) for the procurement of defense articles or commodities for use in
 narcotics control, eradication, and interdiction efforts by law enforcement
 units that are organized for the specific purpose of narcotics enforcement.
Section 305 of this Act (relating to the exemption of narcotics-related
assistance from the prohibition on assistance for law enforcement agencies)
applies with respect to the use of funds under this subsection.
 (e) MILITARY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE-
 (1) LIMITATIONS ON AMOUNTS- The aggregate amount of military and law
 enforcement assistance provided for Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru for each of
 the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 may not exceed $250,000,000. Of that amount--
 (A) not more than $150,000,000 for each such fiscal year may be assistance
 for the armed forces; and
 (B) not more than $150,000,000 for each such fiscal year may be assistance
 for law enforcement units or agencies.
 (2) DEFINITION OF MILITARY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE- For purposes of
 paragraph (1), the term `amount of military and law enforcement assistance'
 means the sum of--
 (A) the amount obligated for foreign military financing assistance;
 (B) the amount obligated for international narcotics control assistance;
 (C) the amount obligated for international military education and training;
 (D) the value of defense articles, defense services, and military education
 and training made available under the special drawdown authority of paragraphs
 (1) and (2)(A)(1) of section 506(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; and
 (E) the value of excess defense articles made available under sections 517,
 518, and 519 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (f) PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO PERUVIAN POLICE UNITS THAT VIOLATE HUMAN
 RIGHTS- A Peruvian police organization that engages in a consistent pattern
 of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights shall not
 be eligible to be considered, for purposes of this section, to be a law
 enforcement unit that is organized for the specific purpose of narcotics
 enforcement.
SEC. 733. GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO ASSISTANCE FOR ANDEAN COUNTRIES.
 (a) PRESIDENTIAL DETERMINATION REQUIRED- Assistance may be provided for an
 Andean country pursuant to section 731(a) and section 732(a), and excess
 defense articles may be transferred to Bolivia, Colombia, or Peru in fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993 pursuant to sections 517, 518, or 519 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961, only if, before any such assistance is provided
 or any such defense articles are transferred for that fiscal year, the
 President determines that--
 (1) that country is implementing programs to reduce the flow of cocaine to
 the United States in accordance with a bilateral or multilateral agreement,
 to which the United States is a party, that contains specific, quantitative
 and qualitative, performance criteria with respect to those programs;
 (2) the armed forces and law enforcement agencies of that country are not
 engaged in a consistent pattern of gross violations of internationally
 recognized human rights, and the government of that country has made
 significant progress in protecting internationally recognized human rights,
 particularly in--
 (A) ensuring that torture, cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or
 punishment, incommunicado detention or detention without charges and trial,
 disappearances, and other flagrant denials of the right to life, liberty,
 or security of the person, are not practiced; and
 (B) permitting an unimpeded investigation of alleged violations of
 internationally recognized human rights, including providing access to
 places of detention, by appropriate international organizations (including
 nongovernmental organizations such as the International Committee of the
 Red Cross) or groups acting under the authority of the United Nations or
 the Organization of American States; and
 (3) the government of that country has effective control over police and
 military operations related to counternarcotics and counterinsurgency
 activities.
Paragraph (2) does not apply with respect to assistance under section 731(a)
for programs that focus on providing coca farmers with alternative sources
of income, including the introduction of alternative crops, agricultural
research and extension, the provision of credit, assistance with land titles,
agro-industry, micro-enterprise development, and infrastructure development.
 (b) NOTIFICATIONS TO CONGRESS- Not less than 15 days before funds are
 obligated pursuant to section 731(a) or 732(a), the President shall transmit
 to the appropriate congressional committees a written notification in
 accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogrammings under section
 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Such notification shall specify--
 (1) the country to which the assistance is to be provided;
 (2) the type and value of the assistance to be provided;
 (3) in the case of assistance provided pursuant to section 732(a), the law
 enforcement or other units that will receive the assistance; and
 (4) an explanation of how the proposed assistance will further--
 (A) the objectives specified in subsection (a) of this section, and
 (B) in the case of assistance under section 732(a), the purposes specified
 in section 732(b).
 (c) COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM-
 Assistance authorized by section 731(a) and section 732(a) shall be
 coordinated with international narcotics control assistance.
 (d) BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT- If the President makes the determination
 described in subsection (a) of this section, section 691(a)(5) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961, and any similar provision of the Foreign Operations,
 Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act for fiscal years
 1992 and 1993, shall not apply with respect to narcotics-related assistance
 for an Andean country for fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
SEC. 734. COLOMBIA'S EFFORTS TO COMBAT INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) President Cesar Gaviria of Colombia, and the members of his government,
 have made important progress in the war against international narcotics
 trafficking, most notably the arrest and prosecution of members of the
 Medellin Cartel, and the implementation of extensive programs in law
 enforcement cooperation and intelligence sharing with the United States.
 (2) President Gaviria and the members of his government have taken these
 initiatives at significant risk to their lives and the safety of their
 families.
 (3) The Medellin and Cali Cartels are made up of the world's most ruthless
 drug lords and international terrorists responsible for the assassination
 of politicians, police officers, judges, journalists, and countless innocent
 persons in Colombia.
 (4) Pablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria, the leader of the Medellin Cartel,
 one of the world's most wanted criminals, is responsible for thousands of
 narcotics-related deaths worldwide and the smuggling of millions of dollars
 worth of illegal drugs into the United States.
 (5) Pablo Escobar and other leaders of the Medellin Cartel have surrendered
 to Colombian authorities in exchange for leniency and the guarantee that
 they will not be extradited to the United States.
 (6) The Colombian assembly has recently voted to bar extradition of Colombian
 nationals under the Colombian Constitution, and the other Andean nations
 are considering similar measures.
 (7) Cooperative agreements between the United States and other nations are
 essential to our efforts to dismantle drug cartels and bring international
 drug kingpins to justice.
 (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the Government of Colombia should continue its efforts to dismantle
 the Medellin Cartel;
 (2) the Government of Colombia should continue to ensure that Pablo
 Escobar and the other leaders of the Medellin Cartel are isolated from
 any international drug trafficking, money laundering, and other illegal
 activities;
 (3) the Government of Colombia should show the same resolve in bringing
 the leaders of the Cali Cartel to justice;
 (4) the United States should continue to support the efforts of the Government
 of Colombia to eradicate the intimidation, bombings, kidnappings, murders, and
 other domestic violence associated with the narcotics trafficking in Colombia;
 (5) though extradition of international drug kingpins would be an effective
 tool of justice, the United States, Colombia, and the other Andean nations
 nevertheless should continue to work for additional cooperative agreements
 to combat narcotics traffickers;
 (6) the President should assess the progress of the Government of Colombia
 in implementing each of the criteria set forth in paragraphs (1), (2), (3)
 and (5) in determining whether to make a certification for 1992 that Colombia
 is cooperating in efforts to control international narcotics trafficking.
Subchapter B--Other Provisions Relating to South America
SEC. 741. ARGENTINA AND BRAZIL'S COMMON NUCLEAR POLICY.
 (a) RENOUNCING THE PRODUCTION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS- The Congress recognizes and
 congratulates the Government of Argentina and the Government of Brazil for--
 (1) the signing, on November 28, 1990, of a joint Declaration on the Common
 Nuclear Policy of Argentina and Brazil, which bans nuclear weapons production
 and testing;
 (2) creating a bilateral inspection authority to systematize the exchange
 of information and the reciprocal monitoring of all nuclear facilities in
 Argentina and Brazil and their respective central accounting systems;
 (3) undertaking negotiations with the International Atomic Energy Agency
 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `IAEA') on comprehensive
 full-scope safeguard inspections;
 (4) declaring the intention, pending completion of negotiations with the IAEA,
 to initiate actions leading to the full entry into force of the Treaty for
 the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (hereinafter in this
 section referred to as the `Treaty of Tlatelolco'); and
 (5) unilaterally undertaking efforts to promote nuclear nonproliferation,
 such as calls for all nations in Latin America and the Caribbean to ban
 all nuclear explosives, including those for peaceful purposes.
 (b) FURTHER PROGRESS URGED- The Congress urges the Government of Argentina
 and the Government of Brazil to continue their progress toward nuclear
 nonproliferation by--
 (1) meeting the agreed-upon deadline for completing negotiations with the
 IAEA on full-scope safeguard inspections;
 (2) actively pursuing, pending the conclusion of the safeguards agreement
 with the IAEA, the full entry into force of the Treaty of Tlatelolco; and
 (3) increasing controls and limitations on the export of sensitive
 military-related nuclear technologies.
SEC. 742. MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES FOR CHILE.
 During fiscal years 1992 and 1993, foreign military financing assistance
 may be provided to Chile, and sales may be made to Chile under the Arms
 Control Export Act, provided the appropriate congressional committees are
 notified of the amount and nature of the proposed assistance or sale (as
 the case may be) at least 15 days in advance in accordance with procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961.
CHAPTER 3--OTHER PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO THE REGION
SEC. 751. INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- The first sentence of section 401(s)(2)
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969 is amended to read as follows:
 `There are authorized to be appropriated $28,800,000 for fiscal year 1992
 and $31,000,000  for fiscal year 1993 to carry out this section.'.
 (b) BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
 (1) QUALIFICATIONS- Section 401(g) of that Act is amended by adding at the
 end the following: `All individuals appointed to the Board shall possess an
 understanding of and sensitivity to community level development processes. No
 more than 5 members of the Board may be members of any one political party.'.
 (2) TRANSITION RULE- The requirements established by the amendment made
 by paragraph (1) do not affect appointments made to the Board of the
 Inter-American Foundation before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (c) PRINCIPAL OFFICE- Section 401(q) of that Act is amended to read as
 follows:
 `(q) The Foundation shall maintain its principal office in the metropolitan
 Washington, D.C., area. The Foundation may establish agencies, branch offices,
 or other offices in any place or places outside the United States in which
 the Foundation may carry on all or any of its operations and business.'.
 (d) EXPENSES FOR MEETINGS AND PRINTING- Section 401 of that Act is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
 `(v) Funds made available to the Foundation may be used for the expenses
 described in section 1345 of title 31 of the United States Code (relating
 to travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses for meetings).
 `(w) Funds made available to the Foundation may be used for printing and
 binding without regard to section 501 of title 44, United States Code.'.
 (e) RELATION TO AMENDMENTS IN FOREIGN RELATIONS AUTHORIZATION ACT- If the
 Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993, contains
 amendments to section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that are
 identical to the amendments described in this section, then whichever of
 such amendments are enacted later shall not be effective.
SEC. 752. SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS AGAINST THE SPREAD OF CHOLERA.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) in recognition that the cholera epidemic that originated in Peru is
 rapidly spreading throughout Latin America, and that some cases have been
 confirmed in the United States;
 (2) by the first week of May 1991, Peru had reported 175,780 probable cases
 of cholera, with 1,288 deaths;
 (3) during 1991, the Americas will account for over 90 percent of all
 cholera cases worldwide;
 (4) the poor have been most affected by the disease because of contaminated
 water supplies, poor sewage systems and sanitary conditions, and inadequate
 health services; and
 (5) unless strong measures are taken to improve this situation, according
 to the Pan American Health Organization, as many as six million cases,
 resulting in 40,000 deaths, could occur if the epidemic spreads throughout
 Latin America and the Caribbean.
 (b) AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE- The Congress recognizes that prompt United States
 assistance is necessary to alleviate the human suffering arising from the
 cholera epidemic in 6 countries in Latin America and to prevent and control
 its spread to other countries in the region. Accordingly, $25,000,000 of the
 funds authorized to be appropriated for economic support assistance for each
 of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 may be made available for remedial efforts
 to deal with this epidemic, in addition to amounts otherwise available for
 such purpose.
 (c) USE OF FUNDS- Such funds shall be utilized to provide assistance--
 (1) directly through national and municipal agencies responsible for health,
 water, and sanitation services;
 (2) through the Pan American Health Organization, the United Nations
 Children's Fund (UNICEF), and other international and nongovernmental
 organizations;
 (3) for emergency medical needs, such as the purchase of oral rehydration
 salts, antibiotics, and intravenous fluids;
 (4) to the appropriate authorities for epidemiological surveillance,
 environmental health actions, laboratory support, food safety and public
 education materials, and operational expenses; and
 (5) to improve the health and infrastructure systems in order to prevent
 another epidemic once this one is brought under control.
SEC. 753. STRENGTHENING CIVILIAN CONTROL OVER THE MILITARY.
 Title IX of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (relating to human rights and democracy), as amended by title I and title
 IV of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 284. STRENGTHENING CIVILIAN CONTROL OVER THE MILITARY IN LATIN AMERICA
AND THE CARIBBEAN.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT FOR CIVILIAN APPROVAL OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES-
 In order to strengthen the control of democratically elected civilian
 governments over the armed forces, military assistance and sales may
 be delivered to the armed forces of any country in Latin America or the
 Caribbean having such a civilian government only with the prior approval
 of that country's head of government.
 `(b) DEFINITION OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES- For purposes of this
 section, the term `military assistance and sales' means--
 `(1) assistance under chapter 2 of part II, including deliveries under the
 special drawdown authority of section 506 and deliveries of excess defense
 articles under section 517, 518, and 519;
 `(2) international military education and training; and
 `(3) sales under the Arms Export Control Act.'.
SEC. 754. ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT.
 Section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
 as follows:
`SEC. 534. ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT.
 `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Assistance under this section shall be provided for
 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean with democratically elected
 governments--
 `(1) to promote respect for the rule of law and internationally recognized
 human rights by all elements of society;
 `(2) to improve the professionalism and effectiveness of law enforcement
 agencies in the Western Hemisphere based upon the traditional role of
 civilian law enforcement agencies within a democratic system;
 `(3) to improve the capacity of law enforcement officials and the courts
 to render independent, fair, timely, and accessible justice and to punish
 all who abuse human life and dignity; and
 `(4) to enhance the interaction among courts, prosecutors, and police in
 the investigation of crime.
 `(b) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED- The funds specified in subsection (g)
 shall be available for assistance under this section for countries in Latin
 America and the Caribbean that have a democratically elected government to
 support programs and activities, without regard to section 660 of this Act--
 `(1) to enhance professional capabilities to carry out investigative and
 forensic functions conducted under judicial and prosecutorial control;
 `(2) to assist in the development of academic instruction and curricula
 for training law enforcement personnel;
 `(3) to improve the administrative and management capabilities of law
 enforcement agencies, especially their capabilities relating to career
 development, personnel evaluation, and internal discipline procedures;
 `(4) to improve penal institutions and the rehabilitation of offenders; and
 `(5) to enhance protection of participants in judicial cases.
 `(c) ASSISTANCE SUBJECT TO NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT- Assistance under this
 section may be provided only if at least 15 days before each obligation of
 funds the President notifies the appropriate congressional committees in
 accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
 under section 634A of this Act.
 `(d) PROHIBITION ON LETHAL EQUIPMENT- Funds made available to carry out
 this section may not be used to provide any lethal equipment.
 `(e) PROHIBITION ON DOD PARTICIPATION- Personnel of the Department of
 Defense and members of the United States Armed Forces may not participate
 in the provision of training under this section.
 `(f) LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING FOR THE CARIBBEAN- Training in law enforcement
 functions provided under this Act for the police or other law enforcement
 personnel of a country in the Caribbean may only be provided under the
 auspices of the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance
 Program of the Department of Justice. This subsection does not apply with
 respect to narcotics-related training or to training under chapter 8 of
 part II (relating to antiterrorism assistance).
 `(g) AMOUNTS AVAILABLE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE- Of the funds available
 to carry out this chapter for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, $10,000,000
 should be made available to carry out this section, of which $2,500,000
 should be for countries in the Caribbean.
 `(h) EXPIRATION- The authority of this section shall expire on September
 30, 1993.'.
SEC. 755. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN.
 (a) ANNUAL REPORTS- On February 28, 1992, and annually thereafter,
 the Secretary of State shall submit to the Congress a report, prepared
 in cooperation with the Administrator of the Agency for International
 Development, on the status and treatment of indigenous peoples in Latin
 America and the Caribbean. Such report should contain all available
 information about--
 (1) the promotion and protection of civil, political, social, cultural,
 and economic rights and traditions of indigenous peoples in the countries
 of Latin America and the Caribbean;
 (2) the extent to which indigenous peoples are able to participate in
 decisions affecting the protection of their lands, cultures, and traditions,
 and the allocation of natural resources; and
 (3) the steps the United States has taken to ensure that United States
 development assistance programs promote the well-being of indigenous peoples
 in the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall remain in effect until September
 30, 1993.
SEC. 756. AUTHORITY TO FORGIVE REPAYMENT OF AN ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS LOAN.
 (a) FORGIVENESS- Subject to subsection (b), the President may direct the
 Administrator of the Agency for International Development to release the
 Institute Centroamericano de Administration de Empresas from its obligation
 to make further payments to the United States Government on account of the
 loan made to that organization pursuant to the Alliance for Progress Loan
 Agreement dated April 25, 1972 (current loan number: 524-L-035).
 (b) FEDERAL CREDIT REFORM ACT REQUIREMENTS- The authority of subsection
 (a) may be exercised only to the extent that the budget authority for the
 resulting additional cost (within the meaning of the Federal Credit Reform
 Act of 1990) has been provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
TITLE VIII--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICA INITIATIVE
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Enterprise for the Americas Act of 1991'.
CHAPTER 1--FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT DEBT REDUCTION
SEC. 811. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this chapter is to encourage and support improvement in the
 lives of the people of Latin America and the Caribbean through market-oriented
 reforms and economic growth with interrelated actions to promote debt
 reduction, investment reforms, community based conservation and sustainable
 use of the environment, and child survival and child development. The Facility
 will support these objectives through administration of debt reduction
 operations under this chapter for those countries with democratically
 elected governments that meet investment reforms and other policy conditions.
SEC. 812. DEFINITIONS
 For purposes of this chapter--
 (1) the term `administering body' means the entity provided for in section
 818(c);
 (2) the term `Americas Framework Agreement' means the agreement provided
 for in section 818;
 (3) the term `Americas Fund' means an Enterprise for the Americas Fund
 provided for in section 817(a);
 (4) the term `beneficiary country' means an eligible country with respect
 to which the authority of section 814(a)(1) is exercised;
 (5) the term `eligible country' means a country designated by the President
 in accordance with section 813;
 (6) the term `Enterprise for the Americas Board' or `Board' means the board
 established by section 610 of Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (as amended by section 819(c) of this chapter); and
 (7) the term `Facility' means the entity established in the Department of
 the Treasury by section 601 of that Act.
SEC. 813. ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS.
 (a) REQUIREMENTS- To be eligible for benefits from the Facility under this
 chapter, a country must be a Latin American or Caribbean country--
 (1) whose government is democratically elected;
 (2) whose government has not repeatedly provided support for acts of
 international terrorism;
 (3) whose government cooperates on international narcotics control matters;
 (4) whose government (including its military or other security forces) does
 not engage in a consistent pattern of gross violations of internationally
 recognized human rights;
 (5) that has in effect, has received approval for, or, as appropriate in
 exceptional circumstances, is making significant progress toward--
 (A) an International Monetary Fund standby arrangement, extended Fund
 arrangement, or an arrangement under the structural adjustment facility or
 enhanced structural adjustment facility, or in exceptional circumstances,
 a Fund monitored program or its equivalent, unless the President determines
 (after consultation with the Enterprise for the Americas Board) that such
 an arrangement or program (or its equivalent) could reasonably be expected
 to have significant adverse social or environmental effects; and
 (B) as appropriate, structural or sectoral adjustment loans from the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the International
 Development Association, unless the President determines (after consultation
 with the Enterprise for the Americas Board) that the resulting adjustment
 requirements could reasonably be expected to have significant adverse social
 or environmental effects;
 (6) has put in place major investment reforms in conjunction with an
 Inter-American Development Bank loan or otherwise is implementing, or is
 making significant progress toward, an open investment regime; and
 (7) if appropriate, has agreed with its commercial bank lenders on a
 satisfactory financing program, including, as appropriate, debt or debt
 service reduction.
 (b) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS- Consistent with subsection (a), the President
 shall determine whether a country is eligible to receive benefits under
 this chapter. The President shall notify the appropriate congressional
 committees of his intention to designate a country as a eligible country
 at least 15 days in advance of any formal determination.
SEC. 814. REDUCTION OF CERTAIN DEBT.
 (a) AUTHORITY TO REDUCE DEBT-
 (1) AUTHORITY- The President may reduce the amount owed to the United States
 (or any agency of the United States) that is outstanding as of January 1,
 1991, as a result of concessional loans made to an eligible country by
 the United States under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (or
 predecessor foreign economic assistance legislation).
 (2) APPROPRIATIONS ACT REQUIREMENT- The authority of this section may be
 exercised only in such amounts or to such extent as is specifically provided
 in advance by appropriations Acts.
 (3) CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS INAPPLICABLE- A reduction of debt pursuant to this
 section shall not be considered assistance for purposes of any provision
 of law limiting assistance to a country.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION OF DEBT REDUCTION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Any debt reduction pursuant to subsection (a) shall be
 accomplished at the direction of the Facility by the exchange of a new
 obligation for obligations outstanding as of the date specified in subsection
 (a)(1).
 (2) EXCHANGE OF OBLIGATIONS- The Facility shall notify the agency primarily
 responsible for administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 of the agreement with an eligible country to exchange a new obligation for
 outstanding obligations pursuant to this subsection. At the direction of the
 Facility, the old obligations shall be canceled and a new debt obligation
 for the country shall be established, and the agency primarily responsible
 for administering part I of that Act shall make an adjustment in its accounts
 to reflect the debt reduction.
SEC. 815. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL.
 (a) CURRENCY OF PAYMENT- The principal amount of each new obligation issued
 pursuant to section 814(b) shall be repaid in United States dollars.
 (b) DEPOSIT OF PAYMENTS- Principal repayments of new obligations shall be
 deposited in the United States Government account established for principal
 repayments of the obligations for which those obligations were exchanged.
SEC. 816. INTEREST ON NEW OBLIGATIONS.
 (a) RATE OF INTEREST- New obligations issued by a beneficiary country
 pursuant to section 814(b) shall bear interest at a concessional rate.
 (b) CURRENCY OF PAYMENT; DEPOSITS-
 (1) LOCAL CURRENCY- If the beneficiary country has entered into an Americas
 Framework Agreement under section 818, interest shall be paid in the local
 currency of the beneficiary country and deposited in the Americas Fund
 provided for in section 817(a). Such interest shall be the property of the
 beneficiary country, until such time as it is disbursed pursuant to section
 817(d). Such local currencies shall be used for the purposes specified in
 the Americas Framework Agreement.
 (2) UNITED STATES DOLLARS- If the beneficiary country has not entered into
 an Americas Framework Agreement under section 818, interest shall be paid
 in United States dollars and deposited in the United States Government
 account established for interest payments of the obligations for which the
 new obligations were exchanged.
 (c) INTEREST ALREADY PAID- If a beneficiary country enters into an Americas
 Framework Agreement subsequent to the date on which interest first became
 due on the newly issued obligation, any interest already paid on such new
 obligation shall not be redeposited into the Americas Fund established for
 that country pursuant to section 817(a).
SEC. 817. ESTABLISHMENT OF, DEPOSITS INTO, AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM AN ENTERPRISE
FOR THE AMERICAS FUND.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Each beneficiary country that enters into an Americas
 Framework Agreement under section 818 shall be required to establish an
 Enterprise for the Americas Fund to receive payments in local currency
 pursuant to section 816(b)(1).
 (b) DEPOSITS- Local currencies deposited in an Americas Fund shall not
 be considered assistance for purposes of any provision of law limiting
 assistance to a country.
 (c) INVESTMENT- Deposits made in an Americas Fund shall be invested until
 disbursed. Any return on such investment may be retained by the Americas
 Fund, without deposit in the Treasury of the United States and without
 further appropriation by Congress.
 (d) DISBURSEMENTS- Funds in an Americas Fund shall be disbursed only pursuant
 to an Americas Framework Agreement under section 818.
SEC. 818. AMERICAS FRAMEWORK AGREEMENTS.
 (a) AUTHORITY- The Secretary of State is authorized, in consultation with
 other appropriate Government officials, to enter into an Americas Framework
 Agreement with any eligible country concerning the operation and use of
 the Americas Fund for that country. In the negotiation of such Agreements,
 the Secretary shall consult with the Enterprise for the Americas Board in
 accordance with section 819.
 (b) CONTENTS OF AGREEMENTS- An Americas Framework Agreement with an eligible
 country shall--
 (1) require that country to establish an Americas Fund;
 (2) require that country to make interest payments under section 816(b)(1)
 into an Americas Fund;
 (3) require that country to make prompt disbursements from the Americas
 Fund to the administering body described in subsection (c);
 (4) when appropriate, seek to maintain the value of the local currency
 resources of the Americas Fund in terms of United States dollars;
 (5) specify, in accordance with subsection (d), the purposes for which
 amounts in an Americas Fund may be used; and
 (6) contain reasonable provisions for the enforcement of the terms of
 the agreement.
 (c) ADMINISTERING BODY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Funds disbursed from the Americas Fund in each beneficiary
 country shall be administered by a body constituted under the laws of
 that country.
 (2) COMPOSITION- The administering body shall consist of--
 (A) one or more individuals appointed by the United States Government,
 (B) one or more individuals appointed by the government of the beneficiary
 country, and
 (C) individuals who represent a broad range of--
 (i) environmental nongovernmental organizations of the beneficiary country,
 (ii) child survival and child development nongovernmental organizations of
 the beneficiary country,
 (iii) local community development nongovernmental organizations of the
 beneficiary country, and
 (iv) scientific or academic organizations or institutions of the beneficiary
 country.
A majority of the members of the administering body shall be individuals
described in subparagraph (C).
 (3) RESPONSIBILITIES- The administering body--
 (A) shall receive proposals for grant assistance from  eligible grant
 recipients (as determined under subsection (e)) and make grants to eligible
 grant recipients in accordance with the priorities agreed upon in the
 Americas Framework Agreement, consistent with subsection (d);
 (B) shall be responsible for the management of the program and oversight
 of grant activities funded from resources of the Americas Fund;
 (C) shall be subject, on an annual basis, to an audit of financial statements
 conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an
 independent auditor;
 (D) shall be required to grant to representatives of the United States
 General Accounting Office such access to books and records associated with
 operations of the Americas Fund as the Comptroller General of the United
 States may request;
 (E) shall present an annual program for review each year by the Enterprise
 for the Americas Board; and
 (F) shall submit a report each year on the activities that it undertook
 during the previous year to the Chair of the Enterprise for the Americas
 Board and to the government of the beneficiary country.
 (d) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES- Grants from an Americas Fund shall be used for--
 (1) activities that link the conservation and sustainable use of natural
 resources with local community development; and
 (2) child survival and other child development activities.
 (e) GRANT RECIPIENTS- Grants made from an Americas Fund shall be made to--
 (1) nongovernmental environmental, conservation, child survival and child
 development, development, and indigenous peoples organizations of the
 beneficiary country;
 (2) other appropriate local or regional entities; and
 (3) in exceptional circumstances, the government of the beneficiary country.
 (f) REVIEW OF LARGER GRANTS- Any grant of more than $100,000 from an
 Americas Fund shall be subject to veto by the Government of the United
 States or the government of the beneficiary country.
 (g) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA- In the event that a country fails to meet the
 eligibility requirements set forth in section 813(a), as determined by the
 President pursuant to section 813(b), then grants from the Americas Fund for
 that country may only be made to nongovernmental organizations until such
 time as the President determines that such country meets the eligibility
 requirements set forth in section 813(a).
SEC. 819. ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS BOARD.
 (a) RESPONSIBILITIES- For purposes of this chapter, the Enterprise for the
 Americas Board shall--
 (1) advise the Secretary of State on the negotiations of Americas Framework
 Agreements pursuant to section 818;
 (2) ensure, in consultation with--
 (A) the government of the beneficiary country,
 (B) nongovernmental organizations of the beneficiary country,
 (C) nongovernmental organizations of the region (if appropriate),
 (D) environmental, scientific, child survival and child development, and
 academic leaders of the beneficiary country, and
 (E) environmental, scientific, child survival and child development, and
 academic leaders of the region (as appropriate),
that a suitable administering body is identified for each Americas Fund; and
 (3) review the programs, operations, and fiscal audits of each administering
 body.
 (b) SUPPLEMENTAL VIEWS IN ANNUAL REPORT- Each member of the Board shall be
 entitled to receive a copy of any report to be transmitted to the Congress
 pursuant to chapter 5 of this title at least 14 days before the report is
 to be so transmitted, to have 14 days within which to prepare and submit
 supplemental views with respect to the implementation of this chapter for
 inclusion in such report, and to have those views included in the report
 when it is so transmitted.
 (c) AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE BOARD- Section 610 of the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking out `ENVIRONMENT' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `ENTERPRISE';
 (2) in subsection (a),  by striking out `Environment' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Enterprise';
 (3) in subsection (b)(1)(A)--
 (A) by striking out `five' and insert in lieu thereof `six', and
 (B) by inserting `, at least one of whom shall be a representative of the
 Department of Agriculture' after `Government'; and
 (4) in subsection (b)(1)(B)--
 (A) by striking out `four' and inserting in lieu thereof `five',
 (B) by inserting `child survival and child development,' after
 `environmental,', and
 (C) by inserting `, at least one of whom shall be a representative from a
 child survival and child development organization' after `Caribbean'.
CHAPTER 2--EXPORT-IMPORT BANK DEBT REDUCTION
SEC. 821. EXPORT-IMPORT BANK DEBT REDUCTION.
 The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635-635i-4) is amended--
 (1) by inserting after the first section the following:
`TITLE I--GENERAL PROVISIONS'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
`TITLE II--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE
`SEC. 51. PURPOSE.
 `The purpose of this title is to encourage and support improvement
 in the lives of the people of Latin America and the Caribbean through
 market-oriented reforms and economic growth with interrelated actions to
 promote debt reduction, investment reforms, community based conservation
 and sustainable use of the environment. The Facility will support these
 objectives through administration of debt reduction operations under this
 title for those countries with democratically elected governments that meet
 investment reforms and other policy conditions.
`SEC. 52. DEFINITIONS.
 `As used in this title:
 `(1) The term `eligible country' means a country designated by the President
 in accordance with section 53.
 `(2) The term `Facility' means the entity established in the Department
 of the Treasury by section 601 of the Agricultural Trade Development and
 Assistance Act of 1954.
 `(3) The term `IMF' means the International Monetary Fund.
`SEC. 53. ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS UNDER THE FACILITY.
 `(a) REQUIREMENTS- To be eligible for benefits from the Facility under this
 title, a country must--
 `(1) be a Latin American or Caribbean country;
 `(2) have in effect, have received approval for, or, as appropriate in
 exceptional circumstances, be making significant progress toward--
 `(A) an IMF standby arrangement, extended IMF arrangement, or an arrangement
 under the structural adjustment facility or enhanced structural adjustment
 facility, or in exceptional circumstances, an IMF monitored program or its
 equivalent; and
 `(B) as appropriate, structural or sectoral adjustment loans from the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the International
 Development Association;
 `(3) have put in place major investment reforms in conjunction with an
 Inter-American Development Bank loan or otherwise be implementing, or making
 significant progress toward, an open investment regime; and
 `(4) if appropriate, have agreed with its commercial bank lenders on a
 satisfactory financing program, including, as appropriate, debt or debt
 service reduction.
 `(b) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS- The President shall determine whether a
 country is an eligible country for purposes of subsection (a).
`SEC. 54. LOANS ELIGIBLE FOR SALE, REDUCTION, OR CANCELLATION.
 `(a) AUTHORITY TO SELL, REDUCE, OR CANCEL CERTAIN LOANS- Notwithstanding
 any other provision of law, the President may, in accordance with this title--
 `(1) sell to any eligible purchaser any loan or portion thereof made to any
 eligible country or any agency thereof, before January 1, 1991, pursuant
 to this Act; and
 `(2) on receipt of payment from the eligible purchaser, reduce or cancel
 such loan or portion thereof,
only for the purpose of facilitating debt-for-equity swaps,
debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps, if the sale, reduction,
or cancellation would not contravene any term or condition of any prior
agreement relating to such loan.
 `(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law other
 than this title, the President shall establish the terms and conditions
 under which loans may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this title.
 `(c) TREATMENT UNDER SECURITIES LAWS- Any sale made pursuant to this title by
 the Bank of a loan (including any interest therein) to an eligible purchaser
 described in section 57 of this Act shall be a transaction not required
 to be registered pursuant to section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933. For
 purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, the Bank shall not be deemed to
 be an issuer or underwriter with respect to any subsequent sale or other
 disposition of such loan (include any interest therein) or any security
 received by an eligible purchaser pursuant to any debt-for-equity swap,
 debt-for-development swap, or debt-for-nature swap.
 `(d) ADMINISTRATION- The Facility shall notify the Bank of purchasers the
 President has determined to be eligible under section 57, and shall direct
 the Bank to carry out the sale, reduction, or cancellation of a loan pursuant
 to this title. The Bank shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect
 the sale, reduction, or cancellation.
 `(e) LIMITATIONS- The authorities of this section may be exercised beginning
 in fiscal year 1992 and only to such extent as provided for in advance in
 appropriations Acts for fiscal year 1992 or thereafter, as necessary to
 implement section 13201 of the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990.
`SEC. 55. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `For the sale, reduction, and cancellation pursuant to section 54 of loans
 or portions thereof made pursuant to this Act, there are authorized to be
 appropriated to the President such sums as may be necessary, which shall
 remain available until expended.
`SEC. 56. DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.
 `The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or cancellation of any loan sold,
 reduced, or canceled pursuant to this title shall be deposited in the
 United States Government account or accounts established for the repayment
 of such loan.
`SEC. 57. ELIGIBLE PURCHASERS.
 `A loan may be sold pursuant to this title only to a purchaser who
 presents plans satisfactory to the President for using the loan for the
 purpose of engaging in debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps,
 or debt-for-nature swaps.
`SEC. 58. DEBTOR CONSULTATION.
 `Before the sale to any eligible purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation
 pursuant to this title of any loan made to an eligible country, the President
 shall consult with the country concerning, among other things, the amount
 of loans to be sold, reduced, or canceled and their uses for debt-for-equity
 swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.'.
CHAPTER 3--PARTICIPATION OF THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SEC. 831. ROLE OF INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AND OTHER PROGRAMS IN
FOSTERING INVESTMENT REFORM.
 (a) The Secretary of the Treasury shall work closely with the management
 of the Inter-American Development Bank (in this section referred to as the
 `IDB') to ensure the full implementation of the IDB's proposed investment
 sector reform program and the coordination of United States bilateral
 assistance programs with the efforts of the IDB to enhance the likelihood
 of full implementation of liberalization efforts by countries in the region
 served by the IDB.
 (b) Within 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
 the Treasury shall transmit a written report to the Chairman of the Committee
 on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
 Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate describing the
 specifics of the investment sector reform programs that are being carried
 out by the IDB. Such report shall include--
 (1) a detailed description of the elements of the investment sector reform
 program;
 (2) the percentage of the annual lending program of the IDB which will be
 utilized in conjunction with any investment reform efforts;
 (3) a list of the countries that have entered into investment sector reform
 programs with the IDB, or are in the process of negotiating such programs;
 (4) an analysis of how United States bilateral programs have complemented
 investment reform efforts; and
 (5) a description of measures taken by the IDB, the United States, and
 recipient countries to ensure that any negative effects of such reform
 efforts are not borne disproportionately by the poorest segments of such
 countries, and will not have an adverse impact on the natural resources of
 such countries.
SEC. 832. ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INVESTMENT FUND.
 The Inter-American Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 283-283z-8) is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 37. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INVESTMENT FUND.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are hereby authorized to be
 appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury $100,000,000 for each of the
 fiscal years 1992 through 1996 solely to carry out the purposes of this
 section. Such funds shall remain available until expended.
 `(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- The Secretary of Treasury is hereby authorized to
 contribute and to make payment of up to $500,000,000 of funds appropriated
 pursuant to subsection (a), to the Enterprise for the Americas Investment
 Fund (in this section referred to as the `Fund') which shall be administered
 by the Bank, provided that the following conditions have been met:
 `(1) An agreement establishing the Fund has been signed by the United States
 Government and the President of the Bank, specifying the terms and conditions
 under which the United States is to provide monies to the Fund and the
 terms and conditions under which the Bank is to disburse monies from the Fund.
 `(2) At least two additional donors have also entered into the agreement
 referred to in paragraph (1) and have pledged to the Fund contributions
 which, in the aggregate, total not less than $500,000,000.
 `(3) At least 15 days before the first such contribution to the Fund, the
 Secretary of Treasury has transmitted the agreement establishing the Fund
 at the Bank to the Chairman of the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
 Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Chairman of the Committee
 on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
 `(4) The agreement includes a provision that requires the Bank to prepare
 and make public annual reports regarding the operations of the Fund.
 `(c) PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF FUND-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In negotiating the terms and conditions of the Fund
 agreement, the Secretary of Treasury shall ensure that United States
 assistance to the Fund shall be disbursed only for the following purposes:
 `(A) Technical assistance to eligible countries for the purpose of identifying
 and resolving domestic constraints to investment.
 `(B) Assistance to private enterprises, and to enterprises the ownership
 of which is in the process of being transferred from public institutions
 to private persons, in eligible countries in such activities as enterprise
 development, venture capital, preparation of investment proposals, and
 equity support for financial intermediaries to fund and assist enterprises
 in eligible countries.
 `(C) Assistance in building human capital potential, alleviating poverty,
 reducing legal, regulatory, and policy barriers to economic and social
 progress as described in section 64(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act,
 in eligible countries, including programs related to the relocation and
 retraining of workers displaced by investment reform activities such as
 the privatization or restructuring of public enterprises, as well as for
 educational grants to develop expertise in business-related skills necessary
 for the conduct of private sector activities.
 `(D) Assistance to support the development and strengthening of host country
 capacities for insuring the environmental soundness of investment activities,
 including the use of taxes, fees, tax rebates, and other market-based
 incentives and penalties to promote environmentally sound investment
 decisions by private investors, including support in the form of technical
 assistance to government agencies and other entities for the development of
 environmental regulations, standards, and effective enforcement mechanisms
 applicable to private investment activities.
 `(2) LIMITATION- In negotiating the terms and conditions of the Fund
 agreement, the Secretary of Treasury shall ensure that not more than 40
 percent of the amounts available to the Fund may be used for the purposes
 described in any particular subparagraph of paragraph (1).
 `(d) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Notwithstanding subsection (a), if
 the requirements set forth in subsections (b) and (c) have not been met
 within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, any monies
 appropriated to carry out the purposes of this section shall no longer be
 available for obligation or expenditure.
 `(e) ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROPOSED ACTIONS OF THE FUND-
 If an Enterprise for the Americas Investment Fund is established pursuant to
 this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States
 representative to the Fund not to vote in favor of any action proposed
 to be taken by the fund which may have a significant adverse effect on
 the environment unless an assessment of the impact of the action on the
 environment has been available for at least 120 days before the vote.
 `(f) ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS- With respect to United States assistance
 to the Fund, to be eligible for disbursements of assistance from the Fund,
 a country must--
 `(1) be a Latin American or Caribbean country;
 `(2) have in effect, have received approval for, or, as appropriate in
 exceptional circumstances, be making significant progress toward--
 `(A) an International Monetary Fund standby arrangement, extended
 International Monetary Fund arrangement, or an arrangement under the
 structural adjustment facility or enhanced structural adjustment facility, or
 in exceptional circumstances, an International Monetary Fund monitored program
 or its equivalent, unless the President determines (after consultation with
 the Enterprise for the Americas Board) that such an arrangement or program
 (or its equivalent) could reasonably be expected to have significant adverse
 social or environmental effects; and
 `(B) as appropriate, structural or sectoral adjustment loans from the
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the International
 Development Association, unless the President determines (after consultation
 with the Enterprise for the Americas Board) that the resulting adjustment
 requirements could reasonably be expected to have significant adverse social
 or environmental effects;
 `(3) have put in place major investment reforms in conjunction with an
 Inter-American Development Bank loan or otherwise be implementing, or making
 significant progress toward, an open investment regime;
 `(4) if appropriate, have agreed with its commercial bank lenders on a
 satisfactory financing program, including, as appropriate, debt or debt
 service reduction;
 `(5) have a democratically elected government;
 `(6) not harbor or sponsor international terrorists;
 `(7) be cooperating in narcotics matters; and
 `(8) not have a government with a consistent pattern of gross human rights
 violations by its instrumentalities, including its military or security
 forces.
 `(g) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS- The President shall determine whether a
 country is an eligible country for purposes of subsection (f).'.
CHAPTER 4--INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY FOR THE AMERICAS
SEC. 841. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this title is to promote economic integration and the
 consolidation and strengthening of democratic institutions in the Hemisphere,
 and to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the discovery of the Americas
 by Christopher Columbus through the establishment of an institution of
 higher education, which shall be known as the `International University
 for the Americas'.
SEC. 842. ESTABLISHMENT.
 The Secretary of State, in consultation with other governments in
 the Hemisphere, shall determine the most appropriate location for the
 International University for the Americas. In making that determination
 the Secretary shall ensure that the location chosen is--
 (1) in the Americas;
 (2) is easily accessible to all peoples in the region;
 (3) has demonstrated a commitment to economic integration and democratic
 values through its policies and programs; and
 (4) has expressed an interest in being chosen as a site and has agreed to
 contribute some amount of assistance, either in cash or kind, toward the
 costs of developing the institution.
SEC. 843. FACULTY, STUDENTS, AND CURRICULUM.
 In developing the bylaws of the International University for the Americas,
 the Secretary shall ensure that it contains provisions to ensure that
 faculty and students are drawn from all the nations in the hemisphere, and
 that the curriculum is designed to develop expertise in fields that will
 promote the economic integration of the Americas and the consolidation of
 democracy throughout the Hemisphere.
SEC. 844. FUNDING.
 Of the development assistance and economic support assistance funds that
 are allocated for Latin America and the Caribbean, $500,000 may be made
 available to carry out the site location and design phase of the International
 University for the Americas.
CHAPTER 5--REPORTS
SEC. 851. ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than December 31 of each year, the President shall
 transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President Pro
 Tempore of the Senate a report on the implementation of this title, title
 II of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, section 37 of the Inter-American
 Development Bank Act, and title VI of the Agricultural Trade Development
 and Assistance Act of 1954. Such report shall include--
 (1) a description of the activities undertaken by the  Enterprise for the
 Americas Facility during the previous fiscal year;
 (2) a description of any Americas Framework Agreements entered into under
 chapter 1 of this title and a description of any Environmental Framework
 Agreement entered into under that title VI;
 (3) a description of any grants that have been extended by administering
 bodies pursuant to an Americas Agreement under that chapter or pursuant to
 an Environmental Framework Agreement under that title VI; and
 (4) a progress report on the selection of a site and design for the
 establishment of the International University for the Americas.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 614 of the Agricultural Trade Development
 and Assistance Act of 1954 (relating to annual reports to the Congress on
 the Enterprise for the Americas Facility) is repealed.
TITLE IX--ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHAPTER 1--EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
SEC. 901. BURMA.
 (a) CONSIDERATIONS IN FURNISHING ASSISTANCE AND MAKING MILITARY SALES- During
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993, in determining whether to furnish assistance to
 Burma under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (other than emergency humanitarian
 assistance under either such Act), and whether to make any sales of defense
 articles or defense services to Burma under the Arms Export Control Act,
 the President shall take into account whether--
 (1) the Government of Burma has--
 (A) ceded legal authority to a civilian government as mandated by the
 elections of May 1990;
 (B) released persons arrested for the peaceful expression of their political
 views, including Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of the National League
 for Democracy; and
 (C) ceased harassment of persons and political parties attempting to exercise
 freedoms of expression, association, and assembly; and
 (2) the President has made a certification concerning Burma under section 490
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to international narcotics
 cooperation).
 (b) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT- During fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the President
 shall notify the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with
 the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, at least 15 days before--
 (1) obligating funds for any assistance for Burma under the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 (other than emergency humanitarian assistance); or
 (2) issuing a letter of offer to sell any defense articles or defense
 services to Burma under the Arms Export Control Act.
 (c) STATEMENT OF CONGRESS REGARDING ECONOMIC SANCTIONS AGAINST BURMA- In
 view of Burma's failure to comply with the human rights and narcotics control
 provisions of section 138 of the Customs and Trade Act of 1990, including that
 it transfer authority to a civilian government, release political prisoners,
 lift martial law, and meet the certification requirements of section 802(6)
 of the Narcotics Control Trade Act, the Congress--
 (1) welcomes the decision of the President not to negotiate a new textile
 agreement with Burma;
 (2) would welcome a decision by the President to impose additional economic
 sanctions upon Burma under section 138 of the Customs and Trade Act of 1990,
 giving primary consideration to the imposition of sanctions on other products
 that constitute major imports from Burma (including fish, tropical timber,
 and aquatic animals); and
 (3) calls upon other industrialized countries to impose similar sanctions
 upon Burma.
 (d) Assistance for Displaced Burmese and To Support Democratic Pluralism-
 (1) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE- Notwithstanding any provision of law
 that restricts assistance to countries, funds described in paragraph (2)
 may be made available--
 (A) for training and education assistance for Burmese outside of Burma who
 are displaced as a result of civil conflict, and
 (B) for activities which support democratic pluralism in Burma.
 (2) FUNDS THAT MAY BE USED- The funds that may be used pursuant to paragraph
 (1) are--
 (A) up to $1,000,000 of development assistance funds for each of fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993; and
 (B) any funds that were made available for development assistance or economic
 support assistance for prior fiscal years by foreign assistance appropriations
 Acts and that were allocated or obligated for assistance for Burma.
 (3) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF USE OF PRIOR YEAR FUNDS- At least 15 days before
 using the authority of paragraph (2)(B), the President shall notify the
 appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961.
SEC. 902. CAMBODIA.
 (a) ACTS OF GENOCIDE IN CAMBODIA- As a party to the Genocide Convention,
 the United States reaffirms that genocide is a crime under international
 law which it undertakes to prevent and punish, and calls upon the competent
 organs of the United Nations to take such action under the Charter of
 the United Nations as they consider appropriate for the prevention and
 suppression of acts of genocide in Cambodia.
 (b) HUMANITARIAN AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE FOR CAMBODIA-
 (1) AUTHORIZATION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), not more than
 $20,000,000 of the funds made available for fiscal years 1992 and 1993
 for development assistance and economic support assistance shall be made
 available, predominantly through international relief agencies and United
 States private and voluntary organizations, for humanitarian and development
 assistance exclusively for Cambodian civilians and in accordance with the
 priority needs identified by the Agency for International Development's
 Report to Congress on Cambodia's Humanitarian and Development Assistance
 Priorities (transmitted pursuant to the Foreign Operations, Export Financing,
 and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991), notwithstanding any other
 provision of law.
 (2) ADDITIONAL FUNDING IF THERE IS A SETTLEMENT- In the event of a
 settlement of the Cambodian conflict acceptable to the United States,
 additional amounts of funds made available for fiscal years 1992 and 1993
 for development assistance and economic support assistance may be used
 under paragraph (1). At least 15 days before obligating any such additional
 funds, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees
 in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
 under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (3) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `humanitarian
 assistance' includes food, clothing, medicine, and other humanitarian
 assistance, including equipment for the surveying and eradication of
 explosive mines, but such term does not include (A) the provision of any
 weapons, weapon systems, or ammunition, or (B) the provision to Cambodian
 military units of any other equipment, vehicles, or material.
 (c) HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE TO CHILDREN- In addition to funds otherwise
 available for such purposes under subsection (b), not more than $5,000,000
 of the funds made available for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for
 development assistance and economic support assistance shall be made
 available to provide humanitarian assistance to children and war victims
 in Cambodia, notwithstanding any other provision of law. Until a settlement
 of the Cambodian conflict acceptable to the United States, such assistance
 shall be provided through international relief agencies and United States
 private and voluntary organizations.
 (d) TRAINING OF CAMBODIANS IN SUPPORT OF AN INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT OF
 THE CAMBODIAN CONFLICT- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
 President may use such amounts (in addition to those otherwise provided for
 in this section) as may be necessary of funds made available for development
 assistance and economic support assistance for fiscal years 1992 and 1993
 to provide for the nonmilitary training of Cambodians, including Cambodians
 outside Cambodia and the United States, in appropriate skills that would be
 used by them in direct support of an internationally acceptable political
 settlement in that country.
 (e) TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE- The President shall terminate assistance
 under this section to any Cambodian organization that he determines is
 cooperating, tactically or strategically, with the Khmer Rouge in their
 military operations.
 (f) ONSITE ASSESSMENT OF NEEDS FOR ASSISTANCE- Not later than 120 days
 after the date of enactment of this Act, the President shall conduct an
 onsite assessment on a multilateral basis in cooperation with the United
 Nations, or on an independent basis, within Cambodia (including Phnom Penh)
 to determine the requirements for the development of social economic and
 social infrastructure and for the eradication of explosive mines.
 (g) REPORT REGARDING THE KHMER ROUGE- Not later than February 1, 1992, the
 President shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
 the President Pro Tempore of the Senate a report describing all instances
 of military cooperation since January 1, 1991, between the Khmer Rouge
 and any individual, group, or faction of the noncommunist resistance and
 describing all instances of human rights abuses by the Khmer Rouge. Such
 report shall be submitted in both classified and unclassified form.
 (h) APPLICABILITY OF EXISTING LAW-
 (1) TRADE RESTRICTIONS- Funds shall be made available under this section
 notwithstanding any law or regulation prohibiting trade with Cambodia or
 any national of Cambodia.
 (2) REPROGRAMMING NOTIFICATIONS- Funds shall be made available under this
 section subject to the provisions of section 634A of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961.
 (3) PROHIBITIONS- Any funds made available under this section shall be
 subject to the prohibitions of section 531(e) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 and section 906 of the International Security Development
 Cooperation Act of 1985.
 (i) CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES GRANTED-
 (1) CERTAIN FUNDING NOT AFFECTED- Nothing in this section supersedes any
 provision of this Act that authorizes the appropriation of funds for a
 specific country, region, organization, or purpose or any provision of
 the annual Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
 Appropriations Act that earmarks funds for a specific country, region,
 organization, or purpose.
 (2) APPROPRIATIONS ACT LIMITATIONS NOT AFFECTED- Nothing in this section
 supersedes any provision of the annual Foreign Operations, Export Financing,
 and Related Programs Appropriations Act that specifically refers to the
 assistance authorized by this section and establishes limitations with
 respect to such assistance.
 (3) APPROPRIATION ACT REPROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS NOT AFFECTED- Nothing in
 this section supersedes the requirements of any provision of the annual
 Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act that requires prior notification to congressional committees of proposed
 reprogrammings of funds.
SEC. 903. ARMS TRANSFERS BY THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA TO CERTAIN
COUNTRIES.
 (a) PROHIBITION- In any calendar year, sales may not be made to the People's
 Republic of China under the Arms Export Control Act, and licenses may not
 be issued under section 38 of that Act for the export to the People's
 Republic of China, of any item on the United States Munitions List for
 military end-users if the President has determined that there is convincing,
 credible evidence that--
 (1) any United States defense article or technology (including United States
 licensed technology) was used in--
 (A) a cruise missile or ballistic missile,
 (B) a advanced fighter aircraft, or
 (C) a major component or technology for any such missile or aircraft,
and was transferred willingly to Algeria and Pakistan and such terrorist
states as Iran, Iraq, Libya, and Syria by the People's Republic of China in
the previous calendar year in contravention of the Arms Export Control Act
or regulations issued under section 38 of that Act; or
 (2) any chemical weapon, or any material, equipment, or technology intended
 for use by a military end-user for any nuclear explosive device, or for
 research on or development of any nuclear explosive device, was transferred
 willingly to Algeria and Pakistan and such terrorist states as Iran,
 Iraq, Libya, and Syria by the People's Republic of China in the previous
 calendar year.
 (b) EXCEPTION- The prohibitions contained in subsection (a) shall not
 apply to sales or exports of systems or components designed specifically
 for inclusion in civil products and controlled as defense articles only for
 purpose of export to a controlled country, unless the President determines
 that the intended recipient of such items is the military or security forces
 of the People's Republic of China.
SEC. 904. PROHIBITION ON MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO FIJI.
 No foreign military financing assistance and no international military
 education and training which is made available for fiscal year 1992 or
 fiscal year 1993 may be provided to Fiji unless the President certifies
 to the Congress that Fiji has held elections in which there has been broad
 participation by all communities in Fiji.
SEC. 905. SUPPORT OF HUMANITARIAN PROJECTS IN LAOS.
 It is the sense of the Congress that, consistent with section 490 of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to international narcotics
 cooperation), the President should use available authority and appropriations
 to provide up to $200,000 in each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for support
 of humanitarian projects in Laos associated with joint United States-Laotian
 cooperative efforts to resolve questions concerning Vietnam era prisoners
 of war or those missing in action.
SEC. 906. MALAYSIA.
 The Congress--
 (1) notes the long tradition of friendship and common interests and values
 between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of the United States,
 reflected in part by the Malaysian Government's endorsement of the goal of
 removing Iraq from Kuwait and its vote in support of United Nations Security
 Council Resolution 678, which authorized the use of force to obtain that goal;
 (2) expresses its deep distress and concern about the current policy and
 practice of the Government of Malaysia of denying first asylum to Indochinese
 asylum-seekers, which conflicts with humanitarian practices to which the
 Malaysian Government had been committed from 1975 to 1989;
 (3) urges the Government of Malaysia to reestablish the policy of first
 asylum and thereby to bring its practices into conformity with internationally
 recognized humanitarian standards;
 (4) expresses its appreciation to the Government of Indonesia, which has
 provided first asylum to nearly all of the more than 11,000 asylum seekers
 who have been denied refuge in Malaysia since 1989; and
 (5) expresses its readiness to support efforts to provide supplemental
 assistance to Indonesia to accommodate the increased burden on that country
 that has resulted from the denial of first asylum by Malaysia.
SEC. 907. ASSISTANCE FOR MONGOLIA.
 In recognition of Mongolia's movement toward democracy in establishing a
 multiparty system and the steps it has taken to establish a free market
 economy, it is the sense of the Congress that additional assistance should
 be provided for Mongolia.
SEC. 908. MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE FOR THE PHILIPPINES
 Part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting after
 chapter 3 the following:
`CHAPTER 4--MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE FOR THE PHILIPPINES
`SEC. 401. FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF POLICY.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
 `(1) The people of the Philippines and the people of the United States
 continue to enjoy a longstanding relationship of mutual respect and
 cooperation.
 `(2) The return of democracy to the Philippines under the leadership of
 President Corazon Aquino has brought our two countries closer together
 and offers an opportunity to the Philippines to again become an economic,
 social, and political leader in Southeast Asia.
 `(3) The threat to democratic government in the Philippines from both the
 Communist insurgency and dissident elements in the Philippine military forces
 jeopardizes the efforts of the Government of the Philippines to broaden
 the participation of the people of the Philippines in the development of
 their country.
 `(4) It is in the mutual interest of our two peoples that the Philippines
 be provided all possible assistance, including voluntary debt reduction
 programs under appropriate circumstances, in its efforts to redress the
 problems caused by economic deterioration and social inequity which have
 fueled the domestic insurgency.
 `(5) The promotion of democracy and achievement of sustainable economic
 growth require a partnership among the Philippines, multilateral institutions,
 bilateral donors, and the private sector to help the Philippines restructure
 its economy and alleviate its debt service in order to achieve broadly based,
 self-sustaining growth and to improve the quality of life of the people of
 the Philippines.
 `(6) The Philippines is facing a serious environmental crisis stemming from
 the loss of tropical forests, growing soil erosion, pollution of rivers,
 lakes, and estuaries, and deterioration of fisheries. The promotion of sound
 environmental, natural resource, and agricultural management will enable
 the Philippines to achieve environmentally and economically sustainable
 development.
 `(7) Since its inauguration in Tokyo in July, 1989, the Multilateral
 Assistance Initiative for the Philippines has resulted in the pledging of more
 than $6,800,000,000 in assistance from 26 donor countries and organizations.
 `(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 `(1) the United States should continue to participate with the multilateral
 financial institutions and other bilateral donors in a coordinated economic
 reform and development program in the Philippines, including voluntary debt
 reduction programs and environmental restoration and sustainable natural
 resource management programs; and
 `(2) a multiyear commitment of resources by the United States, other bilateral
 donors, and the multilateral financial institutions, with a continued
 reform effort and leadership role by the Government of the Philippines,
 will continue to be necessary in order to ensure economic growth in the
 Philippines and enhanced participation of the people of the Philippines in
 the democratic process.
`SEC. 402. ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) AUTHORITY- In order to promote the four basic objectives set forth
 in section 102, the President is authorized to provide assistance for the
 Philippines to carry out the purposes of this chapter. Such assistance shall
 have as its ultimate objective, in conjunction with assistance provided
 by other donors, support of democracy in the Philippines, promotion of
 sustained economic growth led by the private sector, and improvement
 of living conditions for the people of the Philippines, and shall build
 upon the progress that the Government of the Philippines has made in
 the development and implementation of economic, structural, judicial,
 and administrative reforms and the implementation of sustainable natural
 resources management programs.
 `(b) PROGRESS OF REFORMS NECESSARY FOR PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE- The
 provision of assistance under this chapter shall be linked to progress by
 the Government of the Philippines in the implementation of its economic,
 structural, judicial, and administrative reform program.
 `(c) USES OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance under this chapter may include support
 for--
 `(1) economic, structural, and administrative reforms, and voluntary debt
 reduction programs, that are necessary to stimulate growth led by the
 private sector, import liberalization, export growth and diversification,
 and the privatization of enterprises owned or controlled by the government;
 `(2) infrastructure needed by the private sector, particularly in rural areas;
 `(3) strengthening the private sector, including promoting greater
 participation of the United States private sector in the development of
 the Philippines;
 `(4) natural resource management (including coastal environment management)
 which supports sustained economic growth; and
 `(5) such other programs as are consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
`SEC. 403. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
 `(a) ANNUAL CONGRESSIONAL PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS- The President shall
 submit congressional presentation documents regarding programs under this
 chapter on the same basis as the President submits such documents pursuant
 to section 634 of this Act regarding development assistance and economic
 support assistance programs.
 `(b) REPORT ON PROGRAMS FOR PREVIOUS FISCAL YEARS- Within 60 days after
 the date of enactment of this chapter, the President shall submit a report
 to the Congress on the accomplishments of programs carried out for fiscal
 years 1990 and 1991 to carry out the purposes of this chapter, as well as
 on the objectives of such programs for fiscal year 1992.
 `(c) ANNUAL REPORT- As soon as possible after the transmittal by the President
 of the Budget of the United States for each fiscal year beginning with fiscal
 year 1993, the President shall submit a report to the Congress on the progress
 made in carrying out this chapter. Such report shall include a review of--
 `(1) the actions of the Government of the Philippines to achieve the
 objectives for which assistance under this chapter has been provided,
 including implementation of economic, structural, judicial, and administrative
 reforms;
 `(2) the participation of other bilateral donors and multilateral financial
 institutions in the multilateral assistance program for which assistance
 under this chapter is authorized, including the level of their assistance,
 and the effectiveness of efforts to coordinate assistance activities;
 `(3) the progress being made toward the achievement of the objectives of
 this chapter and the obstacles to such achievement; and
 `(4) the budget request for the relevant fiscal year.
`SEC. 404. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this chapter, in
 addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, $1,000,000,000
 (less amounts appropriated to carry out the purposes of this chapter for
 fiscal years 1990 and 1991), of which--
 `(1) not more than $160,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
 year 1992; and
 `(2) such sums as may be necessary are authorized to be appropriated for
 fiscal year 1993.
`SEC. 405. APPROPRIATIONS IN FUTURE YEARS.
 `It is the sense of the Congress that, before requesting the appropriation of
 additional amounts to carry out this chapter, the President should take into
 account the progress being made by the Government of the Philippines toward
 achieving the reform objectives of this chapter, the extent of financial
 and other participation of other bilateral donors and multilateral financial
 institutions, and efforts to coordinate the multilateral assistance program
 for which assistance under this chapter is authorized. Such considerations
 will be primary factors in decisions by the Congress to provide additional
 appropriations to carry out this chapter.
`SEC. 406. DONOR COORDINATION.
 `It is the sense of the Congress that critical to the success of the
 multilateral assistance program for which assistance under this chapter is
 authorized will be the ability of the bilateral donors, the multilateral
 financial institutions, and the Government of the Philippines to coordinate
 effectively their objectives and programs. It is further the sense of the
 Congress that all bilateral donors to this multilateral assistance program
 should take steps to simplify procurement and disbursement procedures and
 to ensure that any conditions on the provision or use of assistance are
 complementary, and that the Government of the Philippines should establish
 such internal procedures and processes as will ensure the most effective
 use of the resources provided by the bilateral donors and the multilateral
 financial institutions.'.
SEC. 909. SOUTH PACIFIC REGIONAL PROGRAM.
 (a) ADDITIONAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE- In addition to the amounts of development
 assistance for South Pacific regional development projects and the amounts
 of economic support assistance under the Fisheries Treaty Program that are
 authorized to be appropriated by this Act pursuant to the executive branch
 request, section 532 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as amended by
 title I of this Act) authorizes the appropriation of $10,000,000 for each
 of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for economic support assistance for the South
 Pacific Regional Program. Of that amount, $2,000,000 for each fiscal year
 is authorized to be appropriated for scholarships for study at postsecondary
 institutions of education in the United States.
 (b) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF CHANGES IN PROPOSED PROGRAM- If the President
 proposes to allocate less development assistance for the South Pacific
 Regional Program for fiscal year 1992 or 1993 than the amount specified in
 the congressional presentation materials for that fiscal year, the President
 shall notify the appropriate congressional committees at least 15 days in
 advance of such allocation in accordance with the procedures applicable to
 reprogramming procedures under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act
 of 1961.
SEC. 910. POLICY TOWARD THE FUTURE OF TAIWAN.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) although peace has prevailed in the Taiwan Strait for the past decade,
 on June 4, 1989, the Government of the People's Republic of China showed its
 willingness to use force against the Chinese people who were demonstrating
 peacefully for democracy; and
 (2) in the Taiwan Relations Act, the United States made clear that its
 decision to enter into diplomatic relations with the People's Republic
 of China rested upon the expectation that the future of Taiwan would be
 determined by peaceful means.
 (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the future of Taiwan should be settled peacefully, free from coercion,
 and in a manner acceptable to the people of Taiwan; and
 (2) good relations between the United States and the People's Republic of
 China depend upon the willingness of the Chinese authorities to refrain
 from the use or the threat of force in resolving Taiwan's future.
SEC. 911. ADMISSION OF ASIAN COUNTRIES INTO THE OECD.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore all now have
 gross national products at per capita levels that exceed those of some of
 the least developed members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
 and Development (hereinafter in the section referred to as the `OECD');
 (2) these Asian countries and territories have a substantial interest
 in furthering the health of the world economy and should assume a more
 prominent role in managing regional and global economic affairs; and
 (3) the ideals of the OECD, namely liberalized trade and investment flows,
 assistance to the developing countries, and better coordination of national
 economic policies, are goals that should be strongly embraced and promoted
 by the newly industrialized countries and territories in Asia.
 (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that the President
 should encourage the OECD to actively undertake the process of study
 and consultation appropriate to consider for membership in the OECD the
 Governments of the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore.
CHAPTER 2--SOUTH ASIA
SEC. 921. ASSISTANCE FOR AFGHANISTAN.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION- Section 904(a) of the International Security and
 Development Cooperation Act of 1985 is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION- The President may make available funds authorized to
 be appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961--
 `(1) for the provision of food, medicine, or other humanitarian assistance
 to the Afghan people, and
 `(2) for the development and implementation of long-range bilateral and
 multilateral reconstruction efforts for Afghanistan and the establishment
 of a broad-based freely-elected Afghan Government.
Such assistance may be provided notwithstanding any provision of law that
restricts assistance to countries.'.
 (b) AUTHORITY TO USE DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE FUNDS- Section 904(b) of that
 Act is amended by inserting `chapter 1 of part I and' after `carry out'.
SEC. 922. UNITED STATES SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRACY AND DEVELOPMENT IN BANGLADESH.
 The Congress--
 (1) congratulates the people of Bangladesh on the successful transition
 to a freely and democratically elected government in Bangladesh following
 national elections held on February 27, 1991;
 (2) welcomes the new government's commitment to the democratic process and
 to economic adjustment measures being implemented in coordination with the
 International Monetary Fund;
 (3) appreciates Bangladesh's support for international law and collective
 security, reflected in part by its endorsement of United Nations sanctions
 against Iraq and its decision to send troops to help defend Saudi Arabia
 during the Gulf crisis;
 (4) finds that Bangladesh's level of income and its commitment to economic
 reforms meet the requirements for debt relief under section 411 of the
 Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (Public Law 480),
 and further finds that, in the absence of Public Law 480 debt relief,
 Bangladesh will ultimately risk being forced to make substantial debt
 payments that it did not anticipate; and
 (5) urges the President to take action to provide to Bangladesh, at the
 earliest opportunity, debt relief under section 411 of the Agricultural
 Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954.
SEC. 923. HUMAN RIGHTS IN INDIA.
 The Congress--
 (1) recognizes that India is the world's most populous democracy, with a
 long tradition of free elections, competing political parties, and vibrant
 civilian institutions, including an independent judiciary and a free press;
 (2) expresses its deep concern that, despite India's history of democratic
 government and tradition of respect for the rule of law, there exist in parts
 of the country serious human rights problems, which include arbitrary arrests
 and detentions without trial, torture, deaths in custody, and disappearances
 and extrajudicial killings of unarmed civilians and suspected militants;
 (3) calls upon the Government of India to take action to promote adherence
 to internationally recognized human rights standards, including measures to--
 (A) fulfill recommendations, made by respected human rights organizations
 and experts, that call for review of security-related laws, whose application
 has reportedly contributed to human rights abuses;
 (B) ensure against long-term detention without trial, in camera trials,
 and the holding of persons in incommunicado detention;
 (C) ensure that all detainees are brought before a judicial authority
 promptly after arrest, and to permit family members and lawyers immediate
 access to all persons in detention;
 (D) maintain safeguards against the use in court of confessions that may
 have been coerced;
 (E) curb human rights abuses committed by security and police forces, and
 to affirm that all members of the security forces will be held responsible
 and subject to prosecution for human rights abuses in Punjab, Kashmir,
 and other areas of civil strife;
 (F) investigate all reports of human rights violations by members of the
 security forces and prosecute those who are found responsible; and
 (G) permit unrestricted access for international human rights monitoring
 organizations, such as Amnesty International and Asia Watch, so that they
 may conduct investigations into alleged human rights violations;
 (4) urges the Government of India to pursue discussion and dialogue with
 representatives of a broad spectrum of the populations of Punjab, Kashmir,
 and other areas of civil conflict, in order to encourage a process of
 political normalization and address popular grievances in those regions;
 (5) condemns gross abuses by militants in Kashmir and Punjab, who have
 been responsible for kidnapping, executions of civilians, and attacks on
 civilian institutions, and urges all militant groups to cease the use of
 force to achieve political objectives;
 (6) urges the Secretary of State to raise Indian human rights issues with
 the Government of India; and
 (7) calls upon Pakistani authorities not to provide arms or training to
 militants in Punjab or Kashmir, and urges the Secretary of State to convey
 this message to Pakistani officials.
SEC. 924. NEPAL.
 (a) STATEMENT OF CONGRESS- The Congress--
 (1) welcomes the establishment of a democratically elected government
 in Nepal;
 (2) recognizes that broad-based economic growth and development in Nepal
 will facilitate the strengthening of democratic political institutions; and
 (3) declares its readiness to generously support the economic development
 effort of the democratically elected government of Nepal.
 (b) ADDITIONAL ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE- In addition to the amounts of development
 assistance authorized to be appropriated by this Act pursuant to the
 executive branch request for Nepal, section 532 of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 (as amended by title I of this Act) authorizes the appropriation
 of $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for economic support
 assistance for Nepal.
 (c) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF CHANGES IN PROPOSED PROGRAM- If the President
 proposes to allocate less development assistance for Nepal for fiscal year
 1992 or 1993 than the amount specified in the congressional presentation
 materials for that fiscal year, the President shall notify the appropriate
 congressional committees at least 15 days in advance of such allocation
 in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming procedures
 under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
SEC. 925. PAKISTAN.
 (a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- Section 620E of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 is amended--
 (1) in the section caption, by inserting `; NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION IN SOUTH
 ASIA' after `PAKISTAN'; and
 (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) The Congress recognizes that an independent and democratic Pakistan
 with continued friendly ties with the United States is in the interest of
 both nations. The United States provides assistance to Pakistan in order to
 help the people and Government of Pakistan establish enduring democratic
 institutions and in order to ensure respect for fundamental human rights,
 including freedom of expression, freedom of association, and freedom of
 conscience. The conduct of regular and free elections open to all political
 parties and political leaders is an essential element of democracy.
 `(2) United States assistance shall be provided to Pakistan only to the
 extent it serves to help avoid the profoundly destabilizing effects of
 the proliferation of nuclear weapons in South Asia and of the capability
 to manufacture nuclear weapons. The Congress recognizes that a successful
 nuclear nonproliferation policy in South Asia can best be achieved through
 a regional United States policy aimed at securing concurrent agreement on
 nonproliferation by the Government of Pakistan, the Government of India, and
 the Government of the People's Republic of China. Such a policy should have
 as its ultimate goal concurrent accession by Pakistan, India, and the People's
 Republic of China to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.'.
 (b) EXTENSION OF SYMINGTON AMENDMENT WAIVER- Section 620E(d) of that Act
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `April 1, 1992,' and inserting in lieu thereof `April 1,
 1993,'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following: `The President may not exercise the
 waiver authority of this subsection unless a certification under subsection
 (e) is in effect.'.
SEC. 926. PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN SRI LANKA.
 (a) STATEMENT OF THE CONGRESS- The Congress--
 (1) finds that the United States and Sri Lanka have a long tradition of
 friendship and share common interests in economic development, international
 peace and stability, political pluralism, and constitutional, multiparty
 democracy;
 (2) expresses its deep concern that, despite Sri Lanka's tradition of
 democratic governance, there are continued reports that the Sri Lankan
 security forces or persons acting under their control or influence are
 responsible for serious abuses of human rights, including disappearances,
 torture, and failure to provide family members or lawyers with information
 on or access to detainees;
 (3) welcomes statements by Sri Lankan officials indicating that they
 recognize the seriousness of these problems and the importance of bringing
 an end to abuses;
 (4) welcomes efforts by the Sri Lankan Government to begin to address human
 rights concerns through measures that include permitting representatives
 of international human rights monitoring organizations to visit Sri Lanka,
 permitting access to international humanitarian organizations such as
 the International Committee of the Red Cross, permitting access to United
 Nations organizations dealing with investigations of human rights concerns,
 and establishing official bodies to investigate disappearances and other
 allegations of human rights abuses;
 (5) believes that continuing progress on these issues will help to ensure
 further improvement in the relationship between the United States and Sri
 Lanka based on mutual trust and respect; and
 (6) strongly condemns ongoing acts of terror, including killings of
 civilians and other violations of humanitarian law, by insurgents operating
 in Sri Lanka.
 (b) CONSIDERATIONS IN FURNISHING ASSISTANCE AND MAKING MILITARY SALES- During
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993, in determining whether to furnish assistance to
 Sri Lanka under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (other than emergency humanitarian
 assistance under either such Act), and whether to make any sales of defense
 articles or defense services to Sri Lanka under the Arms Export Control
 Act, the President shall taken into account whether the Government of Sri
 Lanka has--
 (1) established a public register of detainees and ensured that detainees
 have access to lawyers and family members;
 (2) taken steps designed to deter disappearances and killings of civilians
 in all provinces by persons under the control or influence of government
 forces, such as enhanced efforts to pursue criminal investigations and
 prosecutions of those responsible for such abuses;
 (3) taken measures designed to minimize civilian casualties in its combat
 operations in the north and east; and
 (4) made serious and substantial efforts to investigate and prosecute those
 involved in the murder of journalist Richard DeZoysa.
 (c) ASSISTING THE SRI LANKAN GOVERNMENT TO PROVIDE HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING AND
 EDUCATION- The President should encourage and assist the Government of Sri
 Lanka to provide effective human rights education and training to members
 of the military and in Sri Lankan educational institutions and within the
 society at large.
CHAPTER 3--ECONOMIC COOPERATION PROJECTS IN CHINA AND TIBET
SEC. 941. STATEMENT OF PRINCIPLES.
 (a) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this chapter to create principles governing
 the conduct of United States economic cooperation projects in the People's
 Republic of China and Tibet.
 (b) PRINCIPLES- It is the sense of the Congress that any United States
 economic cooperation project in the People's Republic of China or Tibet
 should adhere to the following principles:
 (1) Seek to ensure that decisions concerning employment in the United
 States economic cooperation project do not entail discrimination based on
 sex, religion, ethnic or national background, political belief, nonviolent
 political activity, or political party membership.
 (2) Ensure, through consultation with relevant government authorities where
 appropriate, that methods of production used in the United States economic
 cooperation project do not pose an unnecessary physical danger to workers,
 to neighboring populations and property, and to the surrounding environment.
 (3) Ensure that no convict or forced labor under penal sanctions is knowingly
 used in the United States economic cooperation project.
 (4) Ensure that no goods that are mined, produced, or manufactured, in whole
 or in part, by convict or forced labor under penal sanctions are knowingly
 used in the United States economic cooperation project.
 (5) Undertake to protect freedom of assembly and association among the
 employees of the United States economic cooperation project, and to foster
 positive and constructive consultation between employees and management of
 the United States economic cooperation project.
 (6) Promote the training of employees of the United States economic
 cooperation project, in particular the training of Chinese employees in
 managerial positions in the principles of market-oriented business management.
 (7) Undertake to protect freedom of expression for the employees of the
 United States economic cooperation project, including the freedom to seek,
 receive, and impart information and ideas of all kinds.
 (8) Discourage compulsory political indoctrination on the premises of the
 operations of the United States economic cooperation project.
 (9) Attempt to raise with the relevant agencies of the Chinese Government
 those individuals detained, arrested, or convicted since March 1989 solely
 for nonviolent expression of their political views, and to urge the officials
 concerned to release publicly a list of the names of those individuals.
 (c) PROMOTION OF PRINCIPLES TO OTHER NATIONS- The Secretary of State shall
 forward a copy of the principles set forth in subsection (b) to the member
 nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and
 encourage them to promote principles similar to these principles.
SEC. 942. REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The United States parent company of each United States
 economic cooperation project in the People's Republic of China or Tibet
 shall register with the Secretary of State and indicate whether the United
 States economic cooperation project will implement the principles set
 forth in section 941(b). No fee shall be required for registration under
 this subsection.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The registration requirement of subsection (a) shall
 take effect 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 943. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
 (a) REPORT- The United States parent company of each United States economic
 cooperation project in the People's Republic of China or Tibet shall report
 to the Department of State describing the United States economic cooperation
 project's adherence to the principles set forth in section 941(b). The United
 States parent company providing such report shall do so by completing and
 submitting a reporting form furnished by the Department of State. The first
 report shall be submitted not later than 1 year after the date on which the
 United States economic cooperation project registers under section 942 and
 not later than the end of each 1-year period occurring thereafter.
 (b) REVIEW OF REPORT- The Secretary of State shall review each report
 submitted under subsection (a) and determine whether the United States
 economic cooperation project which is the subject of the report is adhering
 to the principles. The Secretary may request additional information from the
 United States parent company submitting the report and from other sources,
 in order to verify the information submitted.
 (c) ANNUAL REPORT- The Secretary of State shall submit to the Congress
 and to the Secretariat of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
 Development a report describing the level of adherence to the principles
 by United States economic cooperation projects subject to the reporting
 requirement of subsection (a). Such report shall be submitted not later
 than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act and not later than
 the end of each 1-year period occurring thereafter.
 (d) ASSISTANCE FROM PRIVATE PARTIES- The Secretary of State may use funds
 otherwise available to the Secretary for such purposes to enter into
 contracts with one or more private organizations or individuals to assist
 the Secretary in carrying out this section.
SEC. 944. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this chapter--
 (1) the terms `adhere to the principles', `adhering to the principles' and
 `adherence to the principles' mean--
 (A) agreeing to implement the principles set forth in section 941(b);
 (B) implementing those principles by taking good faith measures with respect
 to each such principle; and
 (C) reporting accurately to the Department of State on the measures taken
 to implement those principles;
 (2) the term `United States economic cooperation project' means--
 (A) an enterprise legally incorporated in the People's Republic of China
 or Tibet--
 (i) which is either--
 (I) a wholly owned subsidiary of a corporation, partnership, or other
 business association organized under the laws of the United States; or
 (II) a joint venture undertaken by 2 or more persons, at least 1 of which is
 a wholly owned subsidiary of a corporation, partnership, or other business
 association organized under the laws of the United States; and
 (ii) which employs more than 50 individuals in the People's Republic of
 China or Tibet; or
 (B) a branch office or representative office of a corporation, partnership,
 or other business association organized under the laws of the United States,
 which employs more than 25 employees in the People's Republic of China
 or Tibet;
 (3) the `United States parent company of a United States economic cooperation
 project' is a corporation, partnership, or other business association
 organized under the laws of the United States, of which--
 (A) the United States economic cooperation project, or (in the case of a
 United States economic cooperation project that is a joint venture) 1 of
 the persons undertaking such project, is a wholly owned subsidiary; or
 (B) the United States economic cooperation project is a branch office or
 representative office; and
 (4) the term `organized under the laws of the United States' means organized
 under the laws of the United States, any State of the United States, the
 District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of
 the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the
 United States.
SEC. 945. ENFORCEMENT OF CURRENT LAW.
 Beginning 3 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 12
 months thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate
 congressional committees a report describing--
 (1) enforcement procedures with respect to the implementation of section
 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307);
 (2) steps taken to investigate which goods, wares, articles, or merchandise
 are mined, produced, or manufactured, in whole or in part, by convict labor
 or forced labor in the People's Republic of China and Tibet; and
 (3) the results of such investigations.
TITLE X--AFRICA
CHAPTER 1--DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA
SEC. 1001. DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA.
 (a) HEALTH AND AIDS PREVENTION- Section 496(i)(2) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) HEALTH AND AIDS PREVENTION-
 `(A) HEALTH- Improving health conditions, with special emphasis on meeting
 the health needs of mothers and children (including displaced children)
 through the establishment of primary health care systems that give priority
 to preventive health and that will be ultimately self-sustaining.
 `(B) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS)- Preventing and controlling
 the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), with a special
 emphasis on community-based education programs focused on changing attitudes
 and behavior.'.
 (b) MINIMUM LEVELS OF ASSISTANCE FOR CERTAIN CRITICAL SECTORS- Section 496(j)
 of that Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(j) MINIMUM LEVEL OF ASSISTANCE FOR CERTAIN CRITICAL SECTORS- The
 Administrator should target the equivalent of the following percentages of
 the amount appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out this chapter for
 each of the following:
 `(1) NATURAL RESOURCE BASE- Ten percent for activities described in
 subsection (i)(1)(B), including identifiable components of agricultural
 production projects.
 `(2) HEALTH- Ten percent for activities described in subsection (i)(2)(A).
 `(3) AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL- Five percent for activities described
 in subsection (i)(2)(B). In determining compliance with this paragraph,
 funds provided through international organizations shall be excluded.
 `(4) VOLUNTARY FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES- Ten percent for activities described
 in subsection (i)(3).'.
 (c) SUPPORT FOR SADCC PROJECTS- Section 496(o)(2) of that Act is amended
 by inserting `communications;' after `electricity);'.
 (d) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 497 of that Act is amended by
 inserting before the first sentence the following: `There are authorized
 to be appropriated to carry out this chapter $1,000,000,000 for each of
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
CHAPTER 2--OTHER ASSISTANCE FOR AFRICA
SEC. 1021. AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION.
 (a) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that the purposes of
 the African Development Foundation, as set forth in the African Development
 Foundation Act, which include supporting self-help activities at the local
 level, fostering effective participation, and encouraging the establishment
 and growth of indigenous development institutions which can respond to
 the requirements of the poor, are consistent with the purpose specified in
 section 496(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 (b) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 510 of the African Development
 Foundation Act is amended by striking out all of the first sentence that
 follows `purpose,' and inserting in lieu thereof `$14,950,000 for fiscal
 year 1992 and $14,950,000 for fiscal year 1993.'.
SEC. 1022. SUPPORT FOR THE SOUTHERN AFRICA DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION CONFERENCE.
 (a) FUNDING FOR SADCC PROJECTS FROM DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA- Funds made
 available for assistance from the Development Fund for Africa for fiscal
 year 1992 and fiscal year 1993 shall be used to assist sector projects
 described in section 496(o) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. It is
 the sense of the Congress that $60,000,000 of such funds for fiscal year
 1992 and $75,000,000 of such funds for fiscal year 1993 should be made
 available to assist such sector projects.
 (b) WAIVER OF BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT- Funds made available pursuant to
 this section may be used without regard to section 691(a)(5) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 or any similar provision.
SEC. 1023. ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA.
 Of the amounts made available for economic support assistance, at least
 $28,300,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $28,300,000 for fiscal year 1993 should
 be made available only for sub-Saharan Africa.
SEC. 1024. SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRATIZATION IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the United States should strongly
 encourage and support efforts to strengthen the independence and effectiveness
 of democratic institutions in sub-Saharan Africa. The President is encouraged,
 therefore, to provide sub- stantially increased assistance under section
 281 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to human rights and
 democratic initiatives) for programs and activities designed to promote the
 growth and development of democratic institutions, including independent
 judiciaries, in sub-Saharan Africa.
SEC. 1025. AFRICAN CENTER FOR CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Administrator of the Agency for International
 Development shall take such steps as may be necessary to provide for the
 establishment of an African Center for Conflict Resolution. The purpose of
 the center shall be to review, analyze, research, and resolve conflicts on the
 continent of Africa, including regional, national, and subnational conflicts.
 (b) FUNDING- Funds made available for assistance from the Development Fund
 for Africa for fiscal year 1992 shall be used to support the establishment
 of the African Center for Conflict Resolution pursuant to subsection (a).
CHAPTER 3--PROVISIONS RELATING TO SPECIFIC COUNTRIES
SEC. 1041. LIMITED ASSISTANCE FOR ANGOLA.
 (a) DEMOCRACY-BUILDING AND OTHER ASSISTANCE- Beginning with fiscal year 1992,
 the President shall provide--
 (1) nonpartisan election and democracy-building assistance to Angola
 for support in developing democratic institutions and supporting such
 institutions; and
 (2)(A) assistance for the voluntary relocation and resettlement of refugees
 and displaced persons, and the demobilization and retraining of former
 military members of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola
 (UNITA) and the armed forces of the Government of the People's Republic
 of Angola,
 (B) humanitarian assistance, with a special emphasis on the medical needs
 of children, and
 (C) other appropriate assistance to implement the Angola peace accords.
 (b) SUPERSEDING EXISTING LAW- Assistance under this section shall be provided
 without regard to any provision of law which prohibits direct or indirect
 assistance for Angola.
 (c) PROHIBITION- In the event that the Government of the People's Republic
 of Angola or the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola
 systematically violates the Angola peace accords, then none of the funds
 made available under this section may thereafter be obligated or expended
 for Angola.
 (d) REPORTING REQUIREMENT- The Secretary of State shall submit a report
 to the Congress on June 1, 1992, and every 6 months thereafter, providing
 details of how funds have been used under this section.
 (e) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `Angola peace accords'
 means the document entitled Fundamental Principles for the Establishment
 of Peace in Angola, done at Lisbon on May 31, 1991.
SEC. 1042. BURUNDI.
 For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, in determining whether to furnish assistance
 under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to Burundi, the President shall
 take into account that the Government of Burundi--
 (1) has made substantial progress in reforming its military by engaging in
 a massive Hutu recruitment program, which is unprecedented in Burundi history;
 (2) has taken important steps to reverse the pattern of discrimination
 against the Hutu; and
 (3) has embarked on a major repatriation effort to accommodate the return
 of thousands of Hutu who fled the country in fear.
SEC. 1043. KENYA.
 (a) STATEMENTS OF POLICY- The Congress--
 (1) condemns the arrest and detention of Kenyan citizens for the peaceful
 expression of their political views;
 (2) condemns the Government of Kenya's disregard of human rights and
 fundamental freedoms;
 (3) calls upon the Government of Kenya to end the intimidation and harassment
 of those who are critical of government policies and those working for
 democracy in Kenya, particularly individuals within the church, the press,
 and the legal and academic communities;
 (4) calls upon the Government of Kenya to respect internationally recognized
 human rights, including implementing effective safeguards to ensure freedom
 of the press, the independence of the judiciary, and the rights of individuals
 imprisoned or detained by the government; and
 (5) calls upon the Government of Kenya to permit access to Somalian refugees
 in Kenya by relief agencies, including nongovernmental organizations and
 the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 (b) ASSISTANCE AND MILITARY SALES-
 (1) SUSPENSION- Subject to paragraph (2), economic and military assistance to
 Kenya shall be suspended as of the date of the enactment of this Act. This
 subsection applies to any economic and military assistance for fiscal year
 1990, 1991, 1992, or 1993 (including deliveries of assistance obligated
 for fiscal year 1990 or 1991).
 (2) WAIVER- The President may waive the restriction in paragraph (1) if the
 President determines and reports to the appropriate congressional committees
 that the Government of Kenya is taking steps to--
 (A) release political detainees and end the prosecution of individuals for
 the expression of their political beliefs;
 (B) cease any physical abuse or mistreatment of prisoners;
 (C) restore judicial independence; and
 (D) restore freedom of expression to the people of Kenya.
 (3) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `economic and
 military assistance' means economic support assistance and foreign military
 financing assistance.
SEC. 1044. LIBERIA.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) as a result of a protracted civil war, a general breakdown of law and
 order, the displacement of up to one-half of the country's population,
 the destruction of significant sections of the infrastructure, and the
 resulting economic collapse, the people of Liberia are suffering from--
 (A) severe malnutrition and life-threatening disease conditions;
 (B) a total collapse of Liberia's agricultural market due to abandoned
 farmlands and displaced farmers; and
 (C) a nationwide dismantling of the health, educational, and sanitation
 systems; and
 (2) because of a long, historical, and special relationship with the Republic
 of Liberia, it is in the interest of the United States and the international
 community to respond to the urgent needs of the people of Liberia and to
 assist in every way possible that country's effort to restore democracy
 and promote democratic institutions.
 (b) STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING ASSISTANCE FOR LIBERIA- It is the policy
 of the United States to continue to commit increased diplomatic resources
 for the purposes of resolving the fundamental political conflicts that
 underlie the protracted humanitarian emergency in Liberia.
 (c) SUPPORT FOR PEACEKEEPING EFFORTS- It is the sense of the Congress that
 the President should continue to support the peacekeeping efforts in Liberia
 being carried out by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
 (d) USE OF FUNDS TO SUPPORT PEACEKEEPING EFFORTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for foreign
 military financing assistance and funds described in paragraphs (2) and (3)
 may be made available, notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts
 eligibility for assistance, to support the efforts of the Economic Community
 of West African States (ECOWAS) to expand the military involvement of its
 members in peacekeeping efforts in Liberia.
 (2) USE OF FMF PIPELINE FUNDS- The President is authorized to deobligate
 any funds that have been obligated for foreign military financing assistance
 for any prior fiscal year but that are unexpended on the date of enactment
 of this Act and use such funds pursuant to paragraph (1).
 (3) USE OF ESF PIPELINE FOR LIBERIA FUNDS- The President is authorized to
 deobligate funds that have been obligated for economic support assistance
 for Liberia for any prior fiscal year but that are unexpended on the date
 of enactment of this Act and use such funds pursuant to paragraph (1).
 (4) REQUIREMENT FOR APPROPRIATIONS ACTION- The authority provided in this
 subsection may be exercised only to the extent provided in advance in an
 appropriations Act.
 (e) INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR LIBERIA- Chapter 9 of part I of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by chapter 6 of title IV of
 this Act, is amended by inserting after section 493 the following new section:
`SEC. 494. LIBERIAN CIVIL STRIFE ASSISTANCE.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The President is authorized to provide assistance for
 civil strife relief, rehabilitation, and general recovery in Liberia. In
 providing such assistance, priority shall be given to activities that--
 `(1) coordinate and enhance the efforts of the United States, Liberia,
 and international private and voluntary organizations to provide relief,
 rehabilitation, and recovery projects in Liberia;
 `(2) assist in the restoration of services in Liberia that provide water
 and power;
 `(3) encourage and facilitate the provision of health care, including
 activities relating to the provision of primary health care;
 `(4) encourage and facilitate the restoration of educational services,
 including activities relating to the provision of educational services to
 displaced children; and
 `(5) contribute to efforts by the international community to respond to
 the relief and development needs of the people of Liberia.
 `(b) HUMANITARIAN PURPOSES- Assistance provided under this section shall
 be for humanitarian purposes.
 `(c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Funds made available for the purposes of this
 chapter may be used to carry out this section.
 `(d) GENERAL POLICIES AND AUTHORITIES- Except as otherwise provided in this
 section, assistance under this section shall be furnished in accordance
 with the policies and general authorities contained in section 491.'.
 (f) RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE TO LIBERIA- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993,
 assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be provided to the
 Government of Liberia only if the President determines and reports to the
 Congress that the Government of Liberia has achieved substantial progress
 toward reconciliation and toward free and fair elections that are monitored
 by international observers. This subsection shall not be construed to affect
 the provision of humanitarian assistance or the provision of assistance
 to nongovernmental organizations for activities to enhance progress toward
 reconciliation and free and fair elections in Liberia.
 (g) WAIVER OF BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT- Assistance may be provided under
 this section notwithstanding section 691(a)(5) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 or any similar provision.
SEC. 1045. MALAWI.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Government of Malawi has provided refuge to some 920,000 refugees
 from Mozambique despite great costs to the Malawian economy, and since 1986
 has generously supported the work of the United Nations High Commissioner
 for Refugees;
 (2) President H. Kamazu Banda has ruled Malawi since 1964, and his rule has
 been characterized by severe repression and abuses of human rights, including
 political imprisonment, torture, unfair trials, and deaths in detention;
 (3) the Government of Malawi continues to detain without charge or trial a
 number of prominent Malawian citizens because of their political views,
 including Goodluck Mhango, Aleke Banda, Orton and Vera Chirwa, and
 approximately 20 other prisoners;
 (4) according to the Department of State's Country Reports on Human Rights
 Practices for 1990, the Government of Malawi restricts freedom of the
 press and prohibits political meetings outside the framework of the ruling
 party; and
 (5) the Malawi Young Pioneers are a force in the suppression of freedom of
 expression and in the intimidation of Malawian citizens, hindering prospects
 for the democratization of the country.
 (b) STATEMENTS OF POLICY- The Congress--
 (1) recognizes and commends the Banda Government's response to the influx
 of refugees from Mozambique;
 (2) condemns the abuse of human rights of Malawian citizens which has
 characterized the Banda presidency; and
 (3) urges President Banda to release remaining prisoners of conscience,
 to end incommunicado detention and torture and abuse of prisoners, and to
 permit freedom of speech and association in Malawi.
 (c) RESTRICTIONS ON MILITARY ASSISTANCE- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993,
 foreign military financing assistance for Malawi--
 (1) may not be provided for the Malawi Young Pioneers; and
 (2) may only be provided to support the Malawian military's effort to secure
 the Nacala Railroad, for programs which support conservation and biological
 diversity, and for military activities which assist in the Mozambique peace
 process, including the protection of Mozambican refugees.
SEC. 1046. MOZAMBIQUE.
 (a) STATEMENTS OF POLICY- It shall be the policy of the United States--
 (1) to give priority to encouraging a constitutional transition to multiparty
 democracy in Mozambique and to securing a fair negotiated political settlement
 between the Government of Mozambique and Mozambique National Resistance
 (RENAMO), which includes a cease-fire and free and fair elections;
 (2) to continue to expand its bilateral development assistance to Mozambique
 through appropriate private and public channels and through the Southern
 African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC); and
 (3) to encourage international support for adequate levels of emergency
 humanitarian assistance (including food, medical care, shelter, and
 agricultural assistance) for the one-third of Mozambique's population
 that is displaced or otherwise at-risk in that country, as well as the
 approximately 1,000,000 Mozambican refugees located in neighboring countries.
 (b) RELATION OF ASSISTANCE TO HUMAN RIGHTS- The provision to Mozambique
 of economic support assistance and foreign military financing assistance
 for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 shall bear a relation to significant steps
 by the Government of Mozambique to increase respect for internationally
 recognized human rights in Mozambique, and thereby promote a political
 settlement to the conflict in the country.
SEC. 1047. SOUTH AFRICA.
 (a) ASSISTANCE FOR SOUTH AFRICA- Chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 is amended by inserting after title IX the following:
`TITLE X--SOUTH AFRICA
`SEC. 291. SOUTH AFRICA.
 `It is the sense of the Congress that--
 `(1) the United States should support the elimination of apartheid and
 the establishment of democratic majority rule in South Africa through a
 comprehensive policy to bring about a nonracial democracy;
 `(2) this policy should include, among other measures, assistance for
 disadvantaged South African groups and organizations which are neither
 controlled nor financed by the Government of South Africa, and such
 assistance should include the encouragement of private investment in firms
 owned by disadvantaged South Africans consistent with the Comprehensive Anti-
 Apartheid Act of 1986, scholarships, assistance to promote the participation
 of disadvantaged South Africans in trade unions and private enterprise,
 and alternative education and community development programs;
 `(3) United States firms in South Africa should provide similar assistance;
 and
 `(4) the President should seek the cooperation of United States allies in
 Western Europe and Japan to join in similar multilateral initiatives to
 aid disadvantaged South Africans.
`SEC. 292. FOSTERING A JUST SOCIETY AND HELPING VICTIMS OF APARTHEID IN
SOUTH AFRICA.
 `(a) USE OF FUNDS- Of the amounts made available to carry out section 281
 of this Act, $1,500,000 for each fiscal year should be made available for
 grants to nongovernmental organizations in South Africa promoting political,
 economic, social, judicial, and humanitarian efforts to foster a just
 society and to help victims of apartheid.
 `(b) PRIORITIES- In making grants under this section, priority should be
 given to those organizations or activities which contribute, directly or
 indirectly, to promoting a just society, to aiding victims of official
 discrimination, and to the nonviolent elimination of apartheid. Priority
 should also be given to those organizations whose programs and activities
 evidence community support.
 `(c) POLITICAL PRISONERS; NONVIOLENT RESISTANCE TO APARTHEID- Of the funds
 made available to carry out this section each fiscal year, not less than
 $500,000 should be made available for--
 `(1) direct legal and other assistance to political detainees and prisoners
 and their families, including the investigation of the killing of protesters
 and prisoners; and
 `(2) support for actions of black-led community organizations to resist,
 through nonviolent means, the enforcement of apartheid policies.
 `(d) LIMITATIONS- Grants may be made under this section only for organizations
 whose character and membership reflect the objective of a majority of South
 Africans for an end to the apartheid system of separate development and
 for interracial cooperation and justice. Grants may not be made under this
 section to governmental institutions or organizations or to organizations
 financed or controlled by the Government of South Africa.
`SEC. 293. ASSISTANCE FOR DISADVANTAGED SOUTH AFRICANS.
 `(a) ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED- Funds made available each fiscal year for
 economic support assistance, development assistance, and assistance from
 the Development Fund for Africa may be made available for assistance for
 disadvantaged South Africans, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
 `(b) ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED- Assistance furnished under this section and,
 in the case of paragraph (3), under section 292--
 `(1) shall be provided for activities that are consistent with the objective
 of a majority of South Africans for an end to the apartheid system and the
 establishment of a society based on nonracial principles;
 `(2) should, in the case of education programs, to the maximum extent
 possible, be used for study within South Africa and place greater emphasis
 on improving primary and secondary education in South Africa; and
 `(3) shall give priority to working with and through South African
 nongovernmental organizations whose leadership and staff are selected on a
 nonracial basis, and which have the support of the disadvantaged communities
 being served by such organizations.
 `(c) USES OF ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) ASSISTANCE WITHIN FY 1991 LEVELS-
 `(A) USE- During each fiscal year, $40,000,000 of the funds made available
 pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used for assistance for such activities
 as scholarships, assistance to promote the participation of disadvantaged
 South Africans in trade unions and private enterprise, and alternative
 education and community development programs.
 `(B) LIMITATION- Assistance furnished under this paragraph may not be
 used to provide support to organizations or groups which are financed or
 controlled by the Government of South Africa. This paragraph shall not be
 construed to prohibit or limit scholarship or bursaries programs.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE IN EXCESS OF $40,000,000-
 `(A) USE- During each fiscal year, funds made available pursuant to subsection
 (a) that are in excess of $40,000,000 may be used for assistance for programs
 only in the health, education, and housing sectors.
 `(B) LIMITATION- Except as provided in subparagraph (C), assistance furnished
 under this paragraph may not be used to provide support to organizations
 or groups which are financed or controlled by the Government of South
 Africa. This subparagraph shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
 scholarship or bursaries programs.
 `(C) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding subparagraph (B), assistance under this
 paragraph may be furnished through nongovernmental organizations to support
 health, educational, and housing institutions or facilities even if such
 institutions or facilities are financed or controlled by the Government of
 South Africa if the President--
 `(i) consults with the appropriate congressional committees before making
 a determination under clause (ii); and
 `(ii) determines, and so reports to the Congress 15 days in advance of the
 proposed obligation of funds in accordance with the procedures applicable
 to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of this Act, that--
 `(I) the provision of assistance to such institutions or facilities is in
 support of the objectives of this section to assist disadvantaged South
 Africans, and
 `(II) the Government of South Africa is continuing to make progress toward
 dismantling apartheid and establishing a nonracial democracy.
 `(d) CONSULTATION WITH SOUTH AFRICAN ORGANIZATIONS; COMMITMENT BY SOUTH
 AFRICAN GOVERNMENT- Before obligating any funds under this section, the
 President should--
 `(1) consult with South African organizations representative of the majority
 population of South Africa; and
 `(2) seek a commitment from the Government of South Africa that it will
 provide additional resources to meet the needs of disadvantaged South
 Africans.
 `(e) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Beginning on January 1, 1992, and every 6 months
 thereafter, the President shall submit to the Congress a report describing
 the extent and type of assistance provided under this section during the
 preceding 6-month period.'.
 (b) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE- Assistance for any fiscal year under the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961, including assistance with funds appropriated before
 the date of enactment of this Act, may not be delivered to the Communist
 Party of South Africa or any affiliated or associated organization. The
 President shall undertake efforts to ensure that recipients of United States
 assistance in South Africa are not engaged in violations of internationally
 recognized human rights, including the unlawful detention of individuals,
 and do have in place democratic processes for internal decisionmaking and
 the selection of leaders.
SEC. 1048. ZAIRE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) the people of the United States and the people of Zaire have cooperated in
 educational programs, cultural affairs, foreign policy issues, and economic
 development efforts in the 30 years since the independence of Zaire;
 (2) the people of the United States support the development of democratic
 institutions in Zaire that reflect the will of the people of Zaire;
 (3) in a speech given on April 24, 1990, President Mobutu Sese Seko of
 Zaire stated that he was committed to the establishment of a multiparty
 democracy and the holding of free and fair elections in Zaire;
 (4) the people of Zaire have clearly endorsed the introduction of political
 pluralism in Zaire, as reflected in the establishment of political parties,
 and have engaged in public debate on the political future of Zaire;
 (5) there are continued reports of arrests and other harassment of persons
 attempting to exercise their rights;
 (6) in May 1990, students in Lubumbashi University were violently attacked
 by Zairian security forces, leading to an undetermined number of casualties;
 (7) in April 1991, security forces attempted to suppress political rallies
 in Lubumbashi and Mbuji-Mayi, provoking a confrontation that led to the
 death and injury of dozens of Zairian civilians;
 (8) to ensure a successful political transition which enjoys credibility
 in Zaire, the process that culminates in national elections must have
 the strong support of a broad spectrum of Zairian society, including all
 major opposition political parties, as well as labor, professional, and
 other nongovernmental organizations, and the direct participation of these
 groups in drafting a new constitution and in organizing the procedures and
 the timing of national elections; and
 (9) important elements of that process will include--
 (A) respect for freedoms of expression, association, and assembly;
 (B) fair access to the broadcast media for opposition candidates and parties;
 (C) an electoral law and procedures that guarantee fairness; and
 (D) an effective transition government that is politically neutral.
 (b) STATEMENT OF THE CONGRESS- The Congress--
 (1) congratulates all the people of Zaire for their efforts to form political
 parties and encourage political pluralism in their country;
 (2) urges the Government of Zaire to agree to the establishment of independent
 international inquiries into attacks on students at Lubumbashi University in
 May 1990, and into the incidents at Lubumbashi and Mbuji-Mayi in April 1991;
 (3) urges the Government of Zaire to implement quickly and fully the
 commitment to provide fair access to the broadcast media for opposition
 candidates and parties;
 (4) urges the Government of Zaire to ensure respect for freedom of expression,
 association, and assembly at all levels and throughout Zaire and to protect
 from harassment all citizens exercising their democratic rights;
 (5) urges the creation of a politically neutral transition government with
 full authority for administering the country prior to national elections,
 including effective control over security forces and finances;
 (6) urges the direct participation of a broad spectrum of Zairian society,
 including all major opposition political parties, as well as labor,
 professional, and other nongovernmental organizations, in the drafting of
 a new constitution;
 (7) stresses the importance of an electoral law and electoral procedures that
 guarantee impartiality in electoral administration, provide adequate resources
 and legal authority to those responsible for administering the elections,
 allow an adequate time period for newly established political parties to
 organize and campaign, and permit international election observers; and
 (8) expresses its readiness to explore ways of providing support to facilitate
 the holding of free and fair elections in Zaire.
 (c) FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING ASSISTANCE- Except as provided in subsection
 (g), foreign military financing assistance may not be provided for Zaire
 for fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 (d) INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING- Except as provided in
 subsection (g), international military education and training may not be
 provided for Zaire for fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
 (e) ECONOMIC SUPPORT ASSISTANCE- Except as provided in subsection (g),
 economic support assistance may not be provided for Zaire for fiscal years
 1992 and 1993.
 (f) DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE- Except as provided in subsection (g), for
 fiscal years 1992 and 1993 assistance from the Development Fund for Africa
 and development assistance shall not be transferred to the Government of
 Zaire. This subsection does not prohibit nongovernmental organizations from
 working with appropriate ministries or departments of the Government of Zaire.
 (g) WAIVER IF THERE ARE FREE AND FAIR ELECTIONS-
 (1) AUTHORIZATION- The President may waive the prohibitions in subsections
 (c) through (f) if the President determines, and reports in accordance with
 paragraph (2), that free and fair national elections have been held in Zaire
 and that the elected government demonstrates a commitment to bring about
 freedom of expression for the people of Zaire, a reformed and independent
 judiciary, and reform of, and applications of the rule of law to, Zaire
 security forces.
 (2) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF DETERMINATION- A determination under paragraph
 (1) shall not become effective until 15 days after it is reported to the
 appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961.
 (3) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF ASSISTANCE- If the President has made the
 determination required by paragraph (1), the President shall notify the
 appropriate congressional committees, in accordance with the procedures
 applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of that Act,
 at least 15 days before obligating any funds for any assistance for Zaire
 described in subsections (c) through (f).
CHAPTER 4--HORN OF AFRICA RECOVERY AND FOOD SECURITY
SEC. 1061. FINDINGS.
 The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The Horn of Africa (the region comprised of Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan,
 and Djibouti) is characterized by an extraordinary degree of food insecurity
 as a result of war, famine, mounting debt, recurrent drought, poverty,
 and agricultural disruption, as well as gross violations of human rights,
 political repression, environmental destruction, and the breakdown of such
 essential services as primary education and health care.
 (2) Internal conflict and famine have killed an estimated 2,000,000 people
 in Ethiopia, Sudan, and Somalia since 1985, and generated another 8,000,000
 displaced persons and refugees, a number so high as to make millions wards
 of the United Nations and the international community.  Relief officials
 now estimate that another 15,000,000 to 20,000,000 people are threatened
 by starvation as civil war and drought continue to ravage the area.
 (3) Governments and armed opposition groups in Ethiopia, Sudan, and Somalia
 have been guilty of gross violations of human rights, which further erode
 food security in those countries.
 (4) Assistance policies have failed in large part because of political and
 economic insecurity, which have prevented the development of programs to
 achieve sustainable development and programs to achieve food security.
 (5) Appropriate assistance should promote real food security, which means
 access by all people at all times to enough food for an active and healthy
 life and the availability of sufficient income and food to prevent chronic
 dependency upon food assistance.
 (6) The end of the Cold War rivalries in the Horn of Africa affords the
 United States the opportunity to develop a policy which addresses the
 extraordinary food security problem in the region.
 (7) Notwithstanding other pressing needs, the United States must accordingly
 fashion a new foreign policy toward the Horn of Africa and cooperate with
 other major donors and the United Nations--
 (A) to develop an emergency relief plan which meets the immediate basic
 human needs that arise as long as civil strife and famine afflict the region;
 (B) to promote immediately cease-fires, secure relief corridors, and an
 end to these conflicts; and
 (C) to provide creative developmental assistance which attacks the root
 causes of famine and war and assists these nations on the path to long-term
 security, reconstruction, voluntary repatriation, economic recovery,
 democracy, and peace, and which targets assistance to assist the poor
 majority more effectively.
SEC. 1062. STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING INDIVIDUAL COUNTRIES.
 (a) ETHIOPIA- It is the sense of the Congress that the President should--
 (1) call upon the authorities who now exercise control over the central
 government in Ethiopia to protect the basic human rights of all citizens,
 to release from detention all political prisoners and other detainees who
 were apprehended by the Mengistu regime, and to facilitate the distribution
 of international relief and emergency humanitarian assistance throughout
 the country;
 (2) urge all authorities in Ethiopia to make good faith efforts to--
 (A) make permanent the cease-fire now in place and to permit the restoration
 of tranquility in the country, and
 (B) make arrangements for a transitional government that is broadly-based,
 that accommodates all appropriate points of view, that respects human rights,
 and that is committed to a process of reform leading to the writing of a
 constitution and the establishment of representative government; and
 (3) support efforts to ensure that the people of Eritrea are able to
 exercise their legitimate political rights, consistent with international
 law, including the right to participate actively in the determination of
 their political future, and call upon the authorities in Eritrea to keep
 open the ports of Mitsiwa and Aseb and to continue to permit the use of
 those ports for the delivery and distribution of humanitarian assistance
 to Eritrea and to Ethiopia as a whole.
 (b) SOMALIA- It is the sense of the Congress that the President should--
 (1) use whatever diplomatic steps he considers appropriate to encourage a
 peaceful and democratic solution to the problems in Somalia;
 (2) commit increased diplomatic resources and energies to resolving the
 fundamental political conflicts which underlie the protracted humanitarian
 emergencies in Somalia; and
 (3) ensure, to the maximum extent possible and in conjunction with other
 donors, that emergency humanitarian assistance is being made available to
 those in need, and that none of the beneficiaries belong to military or
 paramilitary units.
 (c) SUDAN- It is the sense of the Congress that the President should--
 (1) urge the Government of Sudan and the Sudanese People's Liberation Army
 to adopt at least a temporary cessation of hostilities in order to assure
 the delivery of emergency relief to civilians in affected areas;
 (2) encourage active participation of the international community to meet
 the emergency relief needs of Sudan; and
 (3) take steps to achieve a permanent peace.
SEC. 1063. HORN OF AFRICA RELIEF AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM.
 (a) EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF AND REHABILITATION ASSISTANCE- It should
 be the policy of the United States in promoting equitable distribution of
 relief and rehabilitation assistance in the Horn of Africa--
 (1) to assure noncombatants (particularly refugees and displaced persons)
 equal and ready access to all food, emergency, and relief assistance and,
 if relief or relief agreements are blocked by one faction in a region,
 to continue supplies to the civilian population located in the territory
 of any opposing faction;
 (2) to provide relief, rehabilitation, and recovery assistance to promote
 self-reliance; and
 (3) to assure that relief is provided on the basis of need without regard
 to political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal,
 or religious identity of the recipient.
 (b) MAXIMIZING INTERNATIONAL RELIEF EFFORTS- It should be the policy the
 United States in seeking to maximize relief efforts for the Horn of Africa--
 (1) to redouble its commendable efforts to secure safe corridors of passage
 for emergency food and relief supplies in affected areas and to expand its
 support for the growing refugee population;
 (2) to commit sufficient resources under title II of the Agricultural
 Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (relating to emergency and
 private assistance programs), and under chapter 9 of part I of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1991 (relating to international disaster assistance),
 to meet urgent needs in the region and to utilize unobligated security
 assistance to bolster these resources;
 (3) to consult with member countries of the European Community, Japan, and
 other major donors in order to increase overall relief and developmental
 assistance for the people in the Horn of Africa;
 (4) to lend the full support of the United States to all aspects of relief
 operations in the Horn of Africa, and to work in support of United Nations and
 other international and voluntary agencies, in breaking the barriers currently
 threatening the lives of millions of refugees and others in need; and
 (5) to urge the Secretary General of the United Nations to immediately
 appoint United Nations field coordinators for each country in the Horn of
 Africa who can act with the Secretary General's full authority.
 (c) HORN OF AFRICA CIVIL STRIFE AND FAMINE ASSISTANCE-
 (1) AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE- The President is authorized to provide
 international disaster assistance under chapter 9 of part I of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 for civil strife and famine relief and rehabilitation
 in the Horn of Africa.
 (2) DESCRIPTION OF ASSISTANCE TO BE PROVIDED- Assistance pursuant to this
 subsection shall be provided for humanitarian purposes and shall include--
 (A) relief and rehabilitation projects to benefit the poorest people,
 including--
 (i) the furnishing of seeds for planting, fertilizer, pesticides, farm
 implements, crop storage and preservation supplies, farm animals, and
 vaccine and veterinary services to protect livestock;
 (ii) blankets, clothing, and shelter;
 (iii) emergency health care; and
 (iv) emergency water and power supplies;
 (B) emergency food assistance (primarily wheat, maize, other grains, processed
 foods, and oils) for the affected and displaced civilian population of the
 Horn of Africa; and
 (C) inland and ocean transportation of, and storage of, emergency food
 assistance, including the provision of trucks.
Assistance described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall be in addition to any
such assistance provided under title II of the Agricultural Trade Development
and Assistance Act of 1954.
 (3) USE OF PVOS FOR RELIEF, REHABILITATION, AND RECOVERY PROJECTS- Assistance
 under this subsection should be provided, to the maximum extent possible,
 through United States, international, and indigenous private and voluntary
 organizations.
 (4) MANAGEMENT SUPPORT ACTIVITIES- Up to two percent of the amount made
 available for each fiscal year under paragraph (5) for use in carrying
 out this subsection may be used by the agency primarily responsible for
 administering part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for management
 support activities associated with the planning, monitoring, and supervision
 of emergency humanitarian and food assistance in the Horn of Africa provided
 under this subsection and subsection (d).
 (5) TRANSFER OF SECURITY ASSISTANCE FUNDS- The authority of section 610
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used to transfer for use in
 carrying out this subsection, without regard to the 20-percent increase
 limitation contained in that section, unobligated security assistance funds
 made available for fiscal years 1992 and 1993. As used in this paragraph,
 the term `security assistance funds' means funds available for economic
 support assistance, foreign military financing assistance, or international
 military education and training.
 (d) EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE- The President is urged to use the authorities
 of title II of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954
 to provide supplemental emergency food assistance for the various civilian
 victims of civil strife in the Horn of Africa, in accordance with paragraphs
 (2)(B), (2)(C), and (3) of subsection (c), in addition to the assistance
 otherwise provided for such purposes.
SEC. 1064. HORN OF AFRICA PEACE INITIATIVE.
 (a) SUPPORT FOR GRASSROOTS PARTICIPATION- It shall be the policy of the
 United States in promoting peace and development in the Horn of Africa--
 (1) to support expanded pluralistic and popular participation, the process
 by which all groups of people are empowered to involve themselves directly
 in creating the structures, policies, and programs to contribute to equitable
 economic development, and to local, national, and regional peace initiatives;
 (2) to ensure that all citizens enjoy the protection of civil, political,
 economic, social, religious, and cultural rights, an independent judiciary,
 and representative governmental institutions, regardless of gender, religion,
 ethnicity, occupation, or association; and
 (3) to provide assistance to indigenous nongovernmental institutions that
 carry out activities in government-controlled or opposition-controlled
 territories and have the capacity or potential to promote conflict resolution,
 to advance development programs, or to carry out relief activities such as
 those described in section 1063(c)(2).
 (b) CONSULTATIONS- The President is encouraged to undertake immediate
 consultations with the Soviet Union and other countries, with armed and
 unarmed parties in the Horn of Africa, and with the Secretary General of
 the United Nations, in order to bring about negotiated settlements of the
 armed conflicts in the Horn of Africa.
 (c) MECHANISMS- It is the sense of the Congress that, to best achieve the
 policy under subsection (a), the President should--
 (1) direct the United States representative to the United Nations to--
 (A) urge the Secretary General of the United Nations to make cease-fires,
 safe corridors for emergency relief, and negotiated settlements of the
 armed conflicts in the Horn of Africa a high and urgent priority;
 (B) propose that the United Nations Security Council establish a United
 Nations arms embargo to end the supply of arms to the region, pending the
 resolution of civil wars and other armed conflicts; and
 (C) pledge diplomatic and material resources for enhanced United Nations
 peacekeeping and peacemaking activities in the region, including monitoring
 of cease-fires;
 (2) play an active and ongoing role in other fora in pressing for negotiated
 settlements to armed conflicts in the Horn of Africa; and
 (3) support and participate in regional and international peace consultations
 that include broad representation from the countries and factions concerned.
SEC. 1065. HORN OF AFRICA FOOD SECURITY AND RECOVERY STRATEGY.
 (a) TARGETING ASSISTANCE TO AID THE POOR MAJORITY; USE OF PVOS AND
 INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS-
 (1) TARGETING ASSISTANCE- United States developmental assistance for the
 Horn of Africa should be targeted to aid the poor majority of the people of
 the region (particularly refugees, women, the urban poor, and small-scale
 farmers and pastoralists) to the maximum extent practicable.  United States
 Government aid institutions should seek to--
 (A) build upon the capabilities and experiences of United States,
 international, and indigenous private and voluntary organizations active
 in local grassroots relief, rehabilitation, and development efforts;
 (B) consult closely with such organizations and significantly incorporate
 their views into the policymaking process; and
 (C) support the expansion and strengthening of their activities without
 compromising their private and independent nature.
 (2) PVOS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS- While support from indigenous
 governments is crucial, sustainable development and food security in the Horn
 of Africa should be enhanced through the active participation of indigenous
 private and voluntary organizations, as well as international private
 and voluntary organizations, and international organizations that have
 demonstrated their ability to work as partners with local nongovernmental
 organizations and are committed to promoting local grassroots activities
 on behalf of long-term development and self-reliance in the Horn of Africa.
 (3) POLICY ON ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENTS- United States assistance should
 not be provided to the Government of Ethiopia, the Government of Somalia,
 or the Government of Sudan until concrete steps toward peace, democracy,
 and human rights are taken in the respective country.
 (4) SUPPORT FOR PVOS- Meanwhile, the United States should provide
 developmental assistance to those countries by supporting United States,
 indigenous, and international private and voluntary organizations working
 in those countries. Such assistance should be expanded as quickly as possible.
 (b) EXAMPLES OF PROGRAMS- Assistance pursuant to this section should include
 programs to--
 (1) reforest and restore degraded natural areas and reestablish resource
 management programs;
 (2) reestablish veterinary services, local crop research, and agricultural
 development projects;
 (3) provide basic education, including efforts to support the teaching of
 displaced children, and rebuild schools;
 (4) educate young people outside of their countries if conflict within
 their countries continues;
 (5) reconstitute and expand the delivery of primary and maternal health
 care; and
 (6) establish credit, microenterprise, and income generation programs for
 the poor.
 (c) VOLUNTARY RELOCATION AND REPATRIATION- Assistance pursuant to this section
 should also be targeted to the voluntary relocation and voluntary repatriation
 of displaced persons and refugees after peace has been achieved. Assistance
 pursuant to this chapter may not be made available for any costs associated
 with any program of involuntary or forced resettlement of persons.
 (d) DEBT RELIEF; INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR RECONSTRUCTION- Developmental
 assistance for the Horn of Africa should be carried out in coordination
 with long-term strategies for debt relief of countries in the region and
 with emerging efforts to establish an international fund for reconstruction
 of developing countries which settle civil wars within their territories.
 (e) ASSISTANCE THROUGH PVOS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS- Unless a
 certification has been made with respect to that country under section 1067,
 development assistance and assistance from the Development Fund for Africa
 for Ethiopia, Somalia, and Sudan shall be provided only through--
 (1) United States, international, and indigenous private and voluntary
 organizations (as the term `private and voluntary organization' is defined
 in section 496(e)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961); or
 (2) through international organizations that have demonstrated effectiveness
 in working in partnership with local nongovernmental organizations and
 are committed to the promotion of local grassroots activities on behalf
 of development and self-reliance in the Horn of Africa (such as the
 United Nations Children's Fund, the International Fund for Agricultural
 Development, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United
 Nations Development Program, and the World Food Program).
This subsection does not prohibit the organizations referred to in paragraphs
(1) and (2) from working with appropriate ministries or departments of the
respective governments of such countries.
 (f) WAIVER OF RESTRICTIONS- Assistance pursuant to this section may be made
 available to Ethiopia, Somalia, and Sudan notwithstanding any provision
 of law (other than the provisions of this chapter) that would otherwise
 restrict assistance to such countries.
 (g) UNITED STATES VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
 FOR DEVELOPMENTAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE HORN OF AFRICA- It should be the
 policy of the United States to provide increasing voluntary contributions
 to United Nations agencies (including the United Nations Children's Fund,
 the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the United Nations High
 Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Development Program, and the
 World Food Program) for expanded programs of assistance for the Horn of Africa
 and for refugees from the Horn of Africa who are in neighboring countries.
 (h) DEVELOPMENTAL ASSISTANCE AUTHORITIES- Assistance to carry out this
 section shall be provided pursuant to the authorities of chapter 1 of part I
 (relating to development assistance) and chapter 10 of part I (relating to
 the Development Fund for Africa) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
 SEC.1066. PROHIBITIONS ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO ETHIOPIA, SOMALIA, AND SUDAN.
 (a) PROHIBITION- Economic support assistance, foreign military financing
 assistance, and international military education and training may not be
 provided for fiscal year 1992 or 1993 for the Government of Ethiopia, the
 Government of Somalia, or the Government of Sudan unless the President makes
 the certification described in section 1067 with respect to that government.
 (b) ASSISTANCE FOR ETHIOPIA; CONDITIONAL WAIVER OF BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT-
 If the President makes the certification described in section 1067 with
 respect to the Government of Ethiopia, the President may provide economic
 support assistance, foreign military financing assistance, and international
 military education and training for Ethiopia for fiscal years 1992 and 1993
 notwithstanding section 691(a)(5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or
 any similar provision.
SEC. 1067. CERTIFICATION.
 The certification required by sections 1065(e) and 1066 is a certification
 by the President to the appropriate congressional committees that the
 government of the specified country--
 (1) has begun to implement peace agreements, national reconciliation
 agreements, or both;
 (2) has demonstrated a commitment to human rights within the meaning of
 sections 283 and 691(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
 (3) has manifested a commitment to democracy, has held, or established a
 timetable for, free and fair elections, and has agreed to implement the
 results of those elections; and
 (4) in the case of a certification for purposes of section 1065(e), has
 agreed to distribute developmental assistance on the basis of need without
 regard to political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal,
 or religious identity of the recipient.
SEC. 1068. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
 Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act and each
 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit a report to the appropriate
 congressional committees on the efforts and progress made in carrying out
 this chapter.
CHAPTER 5--OTHER PROVISIONS
SEC. 1081. UNITED STATES TRADE RESTRICTIONS ON PRODUCTS FROM SUB-SAHARAN
AFRICA.
 It is the sense of the Congress that special efforts should be undertaken
 to reduce trade barriers and to promote economic interchange between the
 United States and developing countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
SEC. 1082. RECOGNITION OF SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAN SUPPORT DURING THE PERSIAN
GULF CRISIS.
 It is the sense of Congress that--
 (1) the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa which supported United Nations
 efforts in the Persian Gulf conflict are to be applauded and paid a public
 debt of gratitude and appreciation for their courageous stance, a signal
 to the world of their commitment to the rule of law; and
 (2) those countries are to be commended for their support of the United
 States in a time of crisis.
SEC. 1083. CONDITIONS ON FURNISHING IMET FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA.
 (a) CONSIDERATIONS IN PROVIDING ASSISTANCE- In deciding whether to provide
 international military education and training to a country in sub-Saharan
 Africa, the President shall consider--
 (1) whether that country has a government that--
 (A) was democratically elected as the result of free and fair elections, or
 (B) is committed to respecting internationally recognized human rights and
 to permitting freedom of expression and has achieved substantial progress
 in a process of democratization;
 (2) whether the armed forces of that country are involved in human rights
 violations or the government of that country otherwise fails to respect
 internationally recognized human rights; and
 (3) whether the armed forces or other elements of the government of that
 country are actively engaged in destabilization efforts aimed at any other
 country.
 (b) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- If international military education and training
 is provided to any country in sub-Saharan Africa that is not described in
 paragraph (1) of subsection (a) or that is described in paragraph (2) or (3)
 of subsection (a), the President shall, within 30 days after obligating funds
 for such assistance to that country, submit to the appropriate congressional
 committees a report setting forth the reasons for providing such assistance.
SEC. 1084. PREEMPTION OF STATE AND LOCAL SANCTION MEASURES AGAINST NAMIBIA.
 (a) PREEMPTION- Effective upon the date of enactment of this Act, any
 sanction imposed by any State or any governmental subdivision thereof, that
 is directed at South Africa or persons engaging in commercial or financial
 transactions in or with South Africa, and that also applies with respect to
 Namibia, shall be null and void to the extent that such sanction applies
 to Namibia or persons engaging in commercial or financial transactions in
 or with Namibia, unless such application is consistent with Federal law.
 (b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `State' means any
 of the Several States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or
 possession of the United States.
SEC. 1085. STUDY ON THE IMPACT OF ADJUSTMENT SUPPORTED PROGRAMS ON THE
DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA.
 There is concern that programs related to Structural Adjustment Programs
 may have retarded progress toward the achievement of goals established
 by the Congress for the Development Fund for Africa. It is the sense of
 the Congress that a detailed study should be undertaken by the Office of
 Technology Assessment, in a cross-section of sub-Saharan African countries,
 of the process of formulation of, and the economic, social, and environmental
 impact of, the programs of adjustment supported or leveraged by the Agency
 for International Development through the Development Fund for Africa.
TITLE XI--AID, TRADE, AND COMPETITIVENESS
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Aid, Trade, and Competitiveness Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1102. CAPITAL PROJECTS OFFICE WITHIN THE AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE- The Administrator of Agency for International
 Development shall establish a capital projects office to carry out the
 purposes described in subsection (b).
 (b) PURPOSES OF OFFICE- The purposes referred to in subsection (a) are--
 (1) to develop an AID program that would focus solely on developmentally
 sound capital projects, taking into consideration the development needs of
 the host country and the export opportunities for United States firms; and
 (2) to consider specifically opportunities for United States high-technology
 firms, including small- and medium-sized firms, in putting together capital
 projects for developing countries and for SEED eligible East European
 countries.
 (c) ACTIVITIES OF AID- The Administrator of AID, acting through the capital
 projects office in coordination with the Export-Import Bank of the United
 States (as appropriate) and the Trade and Development Agency--
 (1) shall put together capital projects in developing countries and in SEED
 eligible East Europe countries;
 (2) shall periodically review infrastructure needs in developing countries
 and SEED eligible East European countries and shall explore opportunities
 for United States firms in the development of new capital projects in these
 countries, keeping both United States firms and the Congress informed of
 these reviews;
 (3) shall determine whether each capital project for which AID provides
 funding is developmentally sound, as set forth in the criteria developed
 by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organization for Economic
 Cooperation and Development;
 (4) shall coordinate its activities with other AID offices, and work with AID
 country missions, in developing capital projects that provide opportunities
 for United States firms consistent with AID's primary mission to help these
 countries with traditional development projects;
 (5) shall coordinate where appropriate funds available to AID for `tied-aid'
 purposes; and
 (6) shall play a special role in helping to meet the infrastructure
 needs of SEED eligible East European countries by meeting the challenge of
 infrastructure assistance provided by foreign governments to those countries,
 including by undertaking a comprehensive study of the infrastructure needs
 of the various SEED eligible East European countries--
 (A) to identify those sector in the economies of these countries that are
 most in need of rebuilding, and
 (B) to identify the state of technology in these countries and the opportunity
 for United States high technology firms to help develop a technological
 infrastructure in these countries, as well as an assessment of export
 opportunities for United States high technology companies.
The results of the study conducted pursuant to paragraph (6) shall be reported
to the appropriate congressional committees within 12 months after the date
of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1103. COORDINATION.
 The President shall utilize the existing interagency coordinating mechanism
 to coordinate activities under this title with other relevant activities
 of the United States Government.
SEC. 1104. REPORTS TO CONGRESS ON CAPITAL PROJECTS.
 Not later than February 1, 1993, and each year thereafter, the President
 shall submit to the Congress a report describing--
 (1) the extent to which United States Government resources have been expended
 specifically to support capital projects in developing countries and SEED
 eligible East European countries;
 (2) the extent to which the activities of the United States Government have
 been coordinated pursuant to section 1103; and
 (3) the extent to which United States Government capital projects and
 tied-aid programs have affected United States exports.
SEC. 1105. NEGOTIATIONS OF THE ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND
DEVELOPMENT.
 If by February 1, 1992, a new agreement within the Organization for Economic
 Cooperation and Development has not been reached that meets the objective
 of reducing the levels of concessional financing by member countries of the
 Organization other than the United States, the Secretary of the Treasury,
 together with the President of the Bank, shall submit a report to the
 Congress on the status of the negotiations, including an analysis of the
 negotiations since 1987, the causes for the failure to reach an agreement by
 that date, and reasons the United States Government believes that continued
 negotiations will result in achieving the above mentioned objective.
SEC. 1106. FUNDING FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS.
 The Congress strongly urges the President to use at least $650,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1992 and at least $700,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 of the total
 amounts made available for economic support assistance, assistance under the
 Multilateral Assistance Initiative for the Philippines, and assistance under
 the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, for grants for
 developmentally sound capital projects. Such grants may be combined with
 financing offered by private financial entities or other entities.
SEC. 1107. REPORT ON THE FEASIBILITY OF AID CREDIT GUARANTEES TO FINANCE
CAPITAL PROJECTS.
 Not later than February 1, 1992, the President shall submit to the appropriate
 congressional committees a report on the feasibility of allowing AID to
 offer credit guarantees for the financing of capital projects.
SEC. 1108. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this title--
 (1) the term `AID' means the Agency for International Development';
 (2) the term `Bank' means the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
 (3) the term `capital projects' means a project involving the construction,
 expansion, alteration of, or the acquisition of equipment for, a physical
 facility or physical infrastructure, including related engineering design
 (concept and detail) and other services, the procurement of equipment
 (including any related services), and feasibility studies or similar
 engineering and economic services;
 (4) the term `SEED eligible East European country' means a country that is
 an eligible East European country under section 4 of the Support for East
 European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 (as amended by title V of this Act); and
 (5) the term `tied-aid credit' has the meaning given to such term in section
 15(h)(1) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945.
SEC. 1109. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR THE TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT
AGENCY FOR FISCAL YEAR 1993.
 In addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated, there
 are authorized to be appropriated for the Trade and Development Agency
 $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 to carry out section 661 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961.
TITLE XII--PEACE CORPS
SEC. 1201. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 3(b) of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2502(b)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(b) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out the purposes of this Act $200,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, which
 are authorized to remain available until September 30, 1993, $200,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993, which are authorized to remain available until September
 30, 1994.'.
SEC. 1202. PEACE CORPS FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT- The Peace Corps
 Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 15 the
 following new section:
`SEC. 16. FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- (1) There is established in the Treasury of the United
 States an account to be known as the `Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace
 Corps, Account'. The account shall be used for the purpose of providing
 funds to pay expenses for operations of the Peace Corps outside the United
 States which, as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates,
 exceed the amount appropriated for such expenses.
 `(2) Funds in the account may be transferred, upon the certification of the
 Director of the Peace Corps (or the Director's designee) that the transfer
 is necessary for the purpose specified in paragraph (1), to the account
 containing funds appropriated for the expenses of the Peace Corps.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS IN THE ACCOUNT- Funds transferred under subsection (a)
 shall be merged with, and be available for the same time period, as the
 appropriation to which they are applied. Notwithstanding any provision of law
 limiting the amount of funds the Peace Corps may obligate in any fiscal year,
 such amount shall be increased to the extent necessary to reflect fluctuations
 in exchange rates from those used in preparing the budget submission.
 `(c) EXCHANGE RATES APPLICABLE TO OBLIGATIONS- An obligation of the Peace
 Corps payable in the currency of a foreign country may be recorded as an
 obligation based upon exchange rates used in preparing a budget submission. A
 change reflecting fluctuations in exchange rates may be recorded as a
 disbursement is made.
 `(d) TRANSFERS BACK TO ACCOUNT- Funds transferred from the Foreign Currency
 Fluctuations, Peace Corps, Account may be transferred back to that account--
 `(1) if the funds are not needed to pay obligations incurred because
 of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries in the
 appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred; or
 `(2) because of subsequent favorable fluctuations in the rates or because
 other funds are, or become, available to pay such obligations.
 `(e) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS BACK- A transfer of funds back to the account
 under subsection (d) may not be made after the end of the fiscal year or
 other period for which the appropriation, to which the funds were originally
 transferred, is available for obligation.
 `(f) TRANSFERS TO THE ACCOUNT FROM REGULAR APPROPRIATIONS- (1) At the
 end of the fiscal year or other period for which appropriations for the
 expenses of the Peace Corps are made available, unobligated balances of such
 appropriation may be transferred into the Foreign Currency Fluctuations,
 Peace Corps, Account, to be merged with and available for the same period
 and purposes as that account.
 `(2) The authority of this subsection shall be exercised only to the extent
 that specific amounts are provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
 `(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace Corps, Account for each fiscal
 year such sums as may be necessary to maintain a balance of $5,000,000 in
 such account at the beginning of such fiscal year.
 `(h) REPORTS- The Director of the Peace Corps shall submit to the Committee
 on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
 Representatives, and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee
 on Appropriations of the Senate, each year a report on funds transferred
 under this section.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) applies with
 respect to each fiscal year after fiscal year 1991.
SEC. 1203. EVALUATION OF HEALTH-CARE SERVICES PROVIDED TO PEACE CORPS
VOLUNTEERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Peace Corps shall contract with an
 eligible organization or organizations to conduct before January 1, 1997,
 a total of three evaluations of the health-care needs of the Peace Corps
 volunteers and the adequacy of the system through which the Peace Corps
 provides health-care services in meeting those needs.
 (b) REQUIREMENTS OF THE EVALUATIONS- Each evaluation shall include an
 assessment of the adequacy of the Peace Corps health-care system--
 (1) to provide diagnostic, treatment, and referral services to meet the
 health-care needs of Peace Corps volunteers, and
 (2) to conduct health examinations of applicants for enrollment as Peace
 Corps volunteers and to provide immunization and dental care preparatory
 to service of applicants for enrollment who have accepted an invitation to
 begin a period of training for service as a Peace Corps volunteer.
 (c) REPORTS TO THE PEACE CORPS- An organization making an evaluation under
 this section shall submit to the Director of the Peace Corps a report
 containing its findings and recommendations not later than December 31,
 1992, December 31, 1994, and December 31, 1996, as the case may be. Each
 report shall include recommendations regarding appropriate standards and
 procedures for ensuring the furnishing of quality medical care and for
 measuring the quality of care provided to Peace Corps volunteers.
 (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 90 days after receipt of a report
 required by subsection (c), the Director of the Peace Corps shall transmit
 the report, together with the Director's comments, to the appropriate
 congressional committees.
 (e) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 (1) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on
 Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and
 the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of
 the House of Representatives; and
 (2) the term `eligible organization' means an independent health-care
 accreditation organization or other independent organization with expertise
 in evaluating health-care systems similar to that of the Peace Corps.
SEC. 1204. REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON EMPLOYMENT-RELATED MATTERS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than August 31, 1992, the Director of the Peace
 Corps and the Secretary of Labor shall jointly submit to the appropriate
 congressional committees a report which describes--
 (1) the information provided by the Peace Corps to its volunteers and to
 applicants for volunteer service in the Peace Corps regarding the benefits
 to and services to which Peace Corps volunteers or trainees may be entitled
 or for which they may be eligible in the event that they sustain injuries
 or become disabled during their service, or their training for service,
 with the Peace Corps;
 (2) the efforts by the Peace Corps and the Department of Labor to coordinate
 the provision of such information to Peace Corps volunteer-applicants and
 volunteers and the processing of claims by Peace Corps volunteers under
 the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA);
 (3) the number of Peace Corps volunteers and volunteer-applicants who have
 filed claims under the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA) and the
 percentage of the claims that have been approved; and
 (4) the timeliness of approvals or denials of claims of Peace Corps volunteers
 and volunteer-applicants under the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA).
 (b) RECOMMENDATIONS- The report required by subsection (a) shall also include
 such recommendations as the Director of the Peace Corps and the Secretary
 of Labor may determine necessary to facilitate the filing and processing
 of claims by Peace Corps volunteers regarding the benefits described in
 that subsection.
 (c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 (1) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on
 Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and
 the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of
 the House of Representatives; and
 (2) the term `Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA)' means chapter 81
 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 1205. PEACE CORPS PROGRAMS IN THE SOVIET UNION.
 Up to $6,000,000 of the funds made available to carry out the Peace Corps
 Act for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 shall be made available for
 establishing Small Business Development Programs in the Soviet Union or any
 successor entity or entities. The program shall include the promotion of
 local economic development by providing technical assistance and training
 in municipal restructuring and financing, privatization, valuation of
 state owned enterprises, business association development and promotion,
 and identification of investment opportunities and requirements.
TITLE XIII--INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1--INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
SEC. 1301. UNITED STATES QUOTA INCREASE; AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT;
APPROVAL OF PLEDGE TO SELL GOLD.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding
 at the end thereof the following new sections:
`SEC. 56. QUOTA INCREASE.
 `The United States Governor of the Fund is authorized to consent to an
 increase in the quota of the United States in the Fund equivalent to
 8,608,500,000 Special Drawing Rights, limited to such amounts as are
 appropriated in advance in appropriation Acts.
`SEC. 57. ACCEPTANCE OF AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT OF THE FUND.
 `The United States Governor of the Fund is authorized to consent to the
 amendments to the Articles of Agreement of the Fund approved in resolution
 numbered 45-3 of the Board of Governors of the Fund.
`SEC. 58. APPROVAL OF FUND PLEDGE TO SELL GOLD TO PROVIDE RESOURCES FOR THE
RESERVE ACCOUNT OF THE ENHANCED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT FACILITY TRUST.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to instruct the United States
 Executive Director of the Fund to vote to approve the Fund's pledge to
 sell, if needed, up to 3,000,000 ounces of the Fund's gold, to restore
 the resources of the Reserve Account of the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
 Facility Trust to a level that would be sufficient to meet obligations of
 the Trust payable to lenders which have made loans to the Loan Account of
 the Trust that have been used for the purpose of financing programs of Fund
 members previously in arrears to the Fund.'.
SEC. 1302. SOVIET ACCESS TO THE FINANCIAL RESOURCES OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) it is in the interest of the United States to encourage emerging
 democracies and market oriented economies in the territory of the former
 Union of Soviet Socialist Republics;
 (2) at the same time, the course of internal politics and economic
 developments in the Soviet Union has been changing rapidly making the
 situation unclear;
 (3) the Soviet Union is rapidly changing its aid and trade relationships with
 various repressive regimes, but this is still a cause for serious concern;
 (4) it is in the interest of the United States to encourage Soviet cooperation
 on international problems, to foster the transition towards open market
 economies, and to promote private and entrepreneurial initiatives, while
 supporting the principles of multiparty democracy and pluralism;
 (5) expanded economic ties to the West can advance these processes and
 would help to stabilize international economic and political conditions;
 (6) however, Western financial assistance also carries substantial risks
 and could result in unacceptable financial losses; and
 (7) given these views, concerns, and the rapidly evolving internal and
 international political situation, the United States should follow policies
 of caution, balance, and flexibility which are most appropriate to achieve
 United States foreign policy objectives, and which should serve as a guide to
 the relationship of the Soviet Union to international financial institutions.
 (b) SOVIET ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND-
 The Secretary of the Treasury may instruct the United States Executive
 Director of the International Monetary Fund to support Soviet membership
 in the Fund only after the President has certified, with at least 30 days
 notification to the Congress, the following:
 (1) ECONOMIC REFORM- That, as an indication that the Government of the
 Soviet Union is implementing free market economic policies, the following
 actions are being taken:
 (A) the right to own private property and engage freely in commerce is being
 established, and progress towards the creation of a legal and administrative
 framework to permit the free exercise of such rights is being made;
 (B) progress toward the implementation of procedures for privatization of
 government enterprises is being made;
 (C) significant progress in dismantling central planning mechanisms, in
 eliminating price controls, and in establishing a market-based pricing
 system is being made; and
 (D) progress in adopting international norms regarding trade, protection
 of foreign investors, and protection of intellectual property rights is
 being made.
 (2) ROLE OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT- That, as an indication that the Soviet
 Union is reducing the size and scope of government expenditures, especially
 categories of expenditure that threaten world security and divert resources
 from market-based economic reform, the following actions have been taken:
 (A) progress toward significantly reducing the Soviet defense budget as a
 percentage of gross domestic product, including reducing strategic nuclear
 weapons arsenals and other weapons of mass destruction, with the objective
 of reducing such percentage to levels approximating those of the Western
 democracies; and
 (B) substantial progress toward the termination of economic subsidies and
 military assistance, including an end to transfers of destabilizing missiles,
 other sophisticated weapons systems, and nuclear technology to countries
 that have supported international terrorism, such as Syria, Libya, and Iraq,
 or that have participated in efforts to destabilize neighboring states,
 such as Cuba, North Korea, and Vietnam.
 (3) POLITICAL REFORM- That, as an indication that the Soviet Union has
 embraced democratic processes upon which successful economic development
 is predicated, the following actions are being undertaken:
 (A) free and fair multiparty elections for the national parliament and
 leadership;
 (B) good faith negotiations between the Government of the Soviet Union and
 leaders of the Baltic states and other republics that have elected to become
 independent of the Soviet Union; and
 (C) sustained commitment to peaceful resolution of disputes with republican
 governments and democratic movements.
 (c) EXPANDED SOVIET ACCESS TO THE RESOURCES OF THE EUROPEAN BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary of the Treasury may instruct
 the United States Executive Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction
 and Development to use the voice and vote of the United States to support
 the expansion of access by the Soviet Union to the resources of the Bank
 pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 8 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement
 only after the President has made the certification and report required
 under subsection (b).
 (d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 (1) The term `Soviet membership' includes any association with the Fund
 involving contribution or borrowing of Fund resources, but excludes associated
 status with the Fund.
 (2) The term `Soviet Union' includes all successor states (other than the
 Baltic states) to the Soviet Union.
SEC. 1303. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS RELATING TO THE PROBLEMS OF NATIONS MAKING
THE TRANSITIONS TO MORE OPEN POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SYSTEMS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) in many areas of the world, nations may be experiencing substantial
 difficulties in making the transitions to more open political and economic
 systems;
 (2) as an example, the study, entitled `The Economy of the U.S.S.R.', which
 was prepared jointly by the International Monetary Fund, the International
 Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Organization for European
 Cooperation and Development, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and
 Development, found that substantial changes need to be made in the Soviet
 economy to provide a viable basis for monetary stability, economic growth,
 and development, and such finding applies to other nations making the
 transitions to more open political and economic systems; and
 (3) these nations may be experiencing special difficulties in making such
 transitions.
 (b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) encouragement should be given to the efforts being made to address the
 political and economic problems of nations making the transitions to more
 open political and economic systems; and
 (2) consideration should be given to developing relationships between
 such nations, the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank
 for Reconstruction and Development, and the other international financial
 institutions, as part of the process of assisting such nations in making
 such transitions.
SEC. 1304. PUBLICATION OF REPORTS ON ECONOMIES OF MAJOR INDUSTRIALIZED NATIONS.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding
 after the sections added by section 1301 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 59. PUBLICATION OF REPORTS ON ECONOMIES OF MAJOR INDUSTRIALIZED NATIONS.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of the Fund to encourage the Fund to adopt procedures for the
 publication of the economic reviews of the major industrialized nations
 and such other commentary as may be appropriate.'.
SEC. 1305. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS RELATING TO COORDINATION OF DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITIES OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
 It is the sense of the Congress that procedures should be instituted to review
 the activities of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank
 for Reconstruction and Development, for the purpose of coordinating the
 international economic activities of international financial institutions
 at the Board level, the managerial level, and the staff level.
SEC. 1306. COOPERATION WITH INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT IN EFFORTS TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO ECONOMIC
AND SOCIAL PROGRESS.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding
 after the sections added by sections 1301 and 1304 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 60. EFFORTS OF THE FUND TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRESS.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) compatible with the primary purpose of the international financial
 institutions and with development, growth, and reduction of poverty, is
 improving the lives of the people of the nations that borrow from such
 institutions, improving their access to economic opportunity, and reducing
 barriers to their economic and social progress;
 `(2) the Bank has recently reaffirmed the central priority of poverty
 reduction in its mission, in the World Development Report 1990;
 `(3) the Bank has committed itself to the integration of poverty strategies
 into country assistance strategies;
 `(4) there is increasing cooperation between the Fund, the Bank, and
 borrowing countries in the preparation of Policy Framework Papers as a
 joint framework for adjustment policies and measures; and
 `(5) there is movement toward developing social safety nets and other
 practical mechanisms to alleviate negative impacts of structural adjustment
 on the most vulnerable sectors of the population of borrowing countries.
 `(b) EFFORTS OF THE FUND TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO
 ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRESS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
 the United States Executive Director of the Fund to advocate vigorously and
 continually, through formal initiatives in the Board and in discussion with
 other directors of the Fund, the following:
 `(1) Considerations of poverty alleviation and the reduction of barriers
 to economic and social progress (as set forth in section 64(a)) should be
 incorporated into all Fund programs and all consultations under article IV
 of the Articles of Agreement of the Fund.
 `(2) Preparation of Policy Framework Papers should be extended to all nations
 which have Fund programs and active Bank or International Development
 Association lending programs, and existence of a Policy Framework Paper
 should be a precondition for new lending to such nations by the Fund.
 `(3) All Policy Framework Papers should articulate the principal poverty,
 economic, and social measures that the borrowing nation needs to address,
 and this portion of the Policy Framework Paper (or a summary thereof that
 includes specific measures and timing) should be made available when the
 Policy Framework Paper is submitted to the Executive Directors of the Bank
 and of the Fund or consideration.
 `(4) In considering whether to allocate resources of the Fund to a borrower,
 the Fund should take into consideration the nature of the program and
 commitment of the borrower to address the issues referred to in paragraph (2).
 `(5) The Fund should establish procedures to enable the Fund to cooperate
 with the Bank in evaluating the effectiveness of such measures, at the levels
 of policy, project design, monitoring, and reporting, in the international
 financial institutions and in the borrowing nations.'.
SEC. 1307. DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAMS.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by
 adding after the sections added by sections 1301, 1304, and 1306 of this
 Act the following:
`SEC. 61. DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAMS OF THE FUND.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) in May 1989, the Fund approved the use of its resources to support
 debt and debt service reduction operations for highly indebted countries;
 `(2) at that time, it was estimated that approximately $30,000,000,000 should
 be made available from official sources over a 3-year period, approximately
 $20,000,000,000 of which was expected to be furnished by the Fund and the
 Bank combined;
 `(3) the objectives of this program were to assist debtor nations to
 resolve problems of excessive debt, restore creditworthiness, and diminish
 the systemic threat to world financial institutions posed by developing
 country debt;
 `(4) as of February 1991, after 2 years of the program, approximately
 $5,700,000,000 had been committed by the Fund and the Bank for these purposes;
 `(5) according to findings of the Fund in February 1991, the program and
 strategy adopted in 1989 has generally fulfilled these objectives, at that
 time 5 nations had concluded debt and debt service reduction agreements
 and a number of other developing nations were presently negotiating debt
 relief inside and outside of the 1989 framework;
 `(6) the Fund's assessment emphasized the importance of the voluntary
 case-by-case approach taken by the program, the innovations required to
 satisfy the parties, and the remaining problems in concluding such agreements;
 `(7) these debt and debt service reduction programs, which have been
 encouraged by the Congress and the Executive Branch, have made progress; and
 `(8) these debt and debt service reduction programs are material to the
 development and growth of, and the reduction of economic and social barriers
 in, borrowing countries.
 `(b) URGE RENEWAL OF DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAMS WITH
 MODIFICATIONS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of the Fund to use the voice and vote of the
 United States to urge--
 `(1) the Fund to renew, for another 3-year period, the arrangements described
 in subsection (a)(1), subject to appropriate modifications;
 `(2) that reductions in commercial debt and debt service should be comparable
 to, and in concert with, reductions in official debt and debt service; and
 `(3) that the renewal of such arrangements, and such reductions in debt and
 debt service, should not result in an excessive shift in the proportion of
 debt or risk assumed by public sector institutions.
 `(c) REPORT ON SOVIET UNION DEBT HELD BY COMMERCIAL BANKS- The Secretary
 of the Treasury shall, using resources of the Fund, the Bank, and other
 appropriate international financial institutions, gather information upon,
 and report, not later than December 31, 1991, to the Congress on, the debt
 of the Soviet Union held by commercial banks outside the Soviet Union,
 and the prospects for the repayment of such debt.'.
SEC. 1308. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN FUND PROGRAMS.
 (a) FINDING- The Congress finds that the International Monetary Fund has
 created an environmental unit.
 (b) ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN FUND PROGRAMS- The Bretton Woods
 Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding after the sections
 added by sections 1301, 1304, 1306, and 1307 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 62. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS IN FUND PROGRAMS.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of the Fund to--
 `(1) encourage the Fund to make further progress toward environmentally
 sound policies and programs;
 `(2) incorporate environmental considerations into all Fund programs,
 including consultations under article IV of the Articles of Agreement of
 the Fund;
 `(3) encourage the Fund to support the efforts of nations to implement
 systems of natural resource accounting in their national income accounts;
 `(4) encourage the Fund to assist and cooperate fully with the statistical
 research being undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
 Development and by the United Nations in order to facilitate development
 and adoption of a generally applicable system for taking account of the
 depletion or degradation of natural resources in national income accounts; and
 `(5) encourage the Fund to consider and implement, as appropriate, revisions
 in its national income reporting systems consistent with such new systems
 as are of general applicability.'.
SEC. 1309. CRITERIA FOR ASSESSING DEFENSE EXPENDITURES.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding
 after the sections added by sections 1301, 1304, 1306, 1307, and 1308(b)
 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 63. CRITERIA FOR ASSESSING DEFENSE EXPENDITURES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of the Fund and the United States Executive Director
 of the Bank to urge the Fund and the Bank, respectively, to develop, and
 report to the member nations, criteria for determining whether a nation
 seeking a loan from the Fund or the Bank, as the case may be, is engaged
 in arms and weapons expenditures that are--
 `(1) appropriate to its national circumstances; or
 `(2) an impediment to sound management of its economy and achievement of
 sustained long-term growth.
 `(b) REPORTS TO THE CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the date of the
 enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to
 the Congress a report containing--
 `(1) the criteria developed pursuant to subsection (a); and
 `(2) a discussion of how such criteria may be appropriately applied in
 United States decisions on loans by the Fund or the Bank.'.
SEC. 1310. HUMAN RIGHTS.
 Section 701(a) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22
 U.S.C. 262d(a)) is amended by striking `and the African Development Bank' and
 inserting `the African Development Bank, and the International Monetary Fund'.
CHAPTER 2--INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND AFFILIATES
Subchapter A--International Finance Corporation
SEC. 1311. CAPITAL INCREASE.
 The International Finance Corporation Act (22 U.S.C. 282-282k) is amended
 by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 14. CAPITAL STOCK INCREASE.
 `(a) SUBSCRIPTION AUTHORIZED-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The United States Governor of the Corporation may--
 `(A) vote for an increase of 1,000,000 shares in the authorized capital
 stock of the Corporation; and
 `(B) subscribe on behalf of the United States to 250,000 additional shares
 of the capital stock of the Corporation.
 `(2) PRIOR APPROPRIATION REQUIRED- The subscription authority provided in
 paragraph (1) shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as
 are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
 `(b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In order to pay for
 the subscription authorized in subsection (a), there are authorized to be
 appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $250,000,000 for payment by
 the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
Subchapter B--International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
SEC. 1321. EFFORTS TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO ECONOMIC AND
SOCIAL PROGRESS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is
 amended by adding after the sections added by sections 1301, 1304, 1306,
 1307, 1308(b), and 1309 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 64. EFFORTS OF THE BANK TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRESS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of the Bank to advocate, in replenishment
 negotiations and in discussion with the other directors of the Bank and
 with the Bank the following:
 `(1) The Bank should enhance its abilities to alleviate poverty and reduce
 economic and social barriers to sustainable economic growth, and to measure
 progress toward such goals.
 `(2) The Bank should adopt a process to assess periodically and systematically
 the degree to which each borrowing nation's policies, programs, and
 institutions are consistent with the reduction of poverty. Such process
 should be reviewed in connection with the process of developing Policy
 Framework Papers with the borrowing country and the Fund, and, unless clearly
 inappropriate, at the time of the evaluation of long term lending projects.
 `(3) The Bank should provide recommendations to governments on their policies
 and programs related to the matters described in paragraph (2).
 `(4) The Bank should ensure that the volume and composition of assistance
 from the Bank supports and complements the efforts of the borrowing nation
 to alleviate poverty and reduce barriers to economic and social progress.
 `(5) The Bank should work to improve the use of its methodologies for such
 indicators as were set forth in the World Development Report 1990 and other
 appropriate statistical data as a means of assessing the effectiveness of
 strategies for alleviating poverty and reducing barriers to economic and
 social progress.
 `(6) The Bank should cooperate with and provide technical assistance and
 financial support, as necessary, to governments of borrowing nations to
 improve their statistical data so that progress toward the goals set forth
 in this subsection can be better monitored.
 `(7) The Bank should improve the use of such indicators and methodologies to
 evaluate the effectiveness of its country assistance policies and strategies
 related to these matters.
 `(b) PROGRESS REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
 of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the Committee
 on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and
 the appropriate committees of the Senate a description of the progress
 made in implementing subsection (a) of this section and section 1613(c)
 of the International Financial Institutions Act.'.
 (b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON GIVING GREATER PRIORITY TO CHILD SURVIVAL
 AND DEVELOPMENT- It is the sense of the Congress that the International
 Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development
 Association each should--
 (1) give greater programmatic and budgetary priority to the survival and
 development of children, including support of basic education activities; and
 (2) make a commitment to devoting 5 percent or more of the amount of the
 annual lending of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 and of the International Development Association to primary health and 5
 percent of such amount to basic education.
SEC. 1322. DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAMS.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding
 after the sections added by sections 1301, 1304, 1306, 1307, 1308(b), 1309,
 and 1321(a) of this Act the following:
`SEC. 65. DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAMS OF THE BANK.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) in May 1989, the Bank approved the use of its resources to support
 debt and debt service reduction operations for highly indebted countries;
 `(2) at that time, it was estimated that approximately $30,000,000,000 should
 be made available from official sources over a 3-year period, approximately
 $20,000,000,000 of which was expected to be furnished by the Fund and the
 Bank combined;
 `(3) the objectives of this program were to assist debtor nations to
 resolve problems of excessive debt, restore creditworthiness, and diminish
 the systemic threat to world financial institutions posed by developing
 country debt;
 `(4) as of February 1991, after 2 years of the program, approximately
 $5,700,000,000 had been committed by the Fund and the Bank for these purposes;
 `(5) according to findings of the Bank in February 1991, the program and
 strategy adopted in 1989 has generally fulfilled these objectives, at that
 time 5 nations had concluded debt and debt service reduction agreements
 and a number of other developing nations were presently negotiating debt
 relief inside and outside of the 1989 framework;
 `(6) the Bank's assessment emphasized the importance of the voluntary
 case-by-case approach taken by the program, the innovations required to
 satisfy the parties, and the remaining problems in concluding such agreements;
 `(7) these debt and debt service reduction programs, which have been
 encouraged by the Congress and the Executive Branch, have made progress; and
 `(8) these debt and debt service reduction programs are material to the
 development and growth of, and the reduction of economic and social barriers
 in, borrowing countries.
 `(b) URGE RENEWAL OF DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION PROGRAMS WITH
 MODIFICATIONS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of the Bank to use the voice and vote of the
 United States to urge--
 `(1) the Bank to renew, for another 3-year period, the arrangements described
 in subsection (a)(1), subject to appropriate modifications;
 `(2) that reductions in commercial debt and debt service should be comparable
 to, and in concert with, reductions in official debt and debt service; and
 `(3) that the renewal of such arrangements, and such reductions in debt and
 debt service, should not result in an excessive shift in the proportion of
 debt or risk assumed by public sector institutions.'.
SEC. 1323. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE BALTIC STATES AND THE SOVIET UNION.
 The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286-286kk) is amended by adding
 after the sections added by sections 1301, 1304, 1306, 1307, 1308(b), 1309,
 1321(a), and 1322 of this Act the following:
`SEC. 66. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY THE BANK FOR THE BALTIC STATES AND THE
SOVIET UNION.
 `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) at the Houston Economic Summit in July 1990, the heads of State and
 Government of the 7 major industrial democracies and the President of the
 Commission of the European Communities requested that the Fund, the Bank,
 the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the designated
 president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in close
 consultation with the Commission of the European Communities, undertake a
 detailed study of the Soviet economy, make recommendations for its reform,
 and establish the criteria under which Western economic assistance could
 effectively support such reforms;
 `(2) in the resulting report, the organizations concluded that timely
 technical assistance can play a major role in easing the transition to a
 market economy, and that such technical assistance could be particularly
 helpful in the fields of fiscal and monetary policies, foreign exchange
 and banking, and the development of statistical and accounting systems;
 `(3) technical assistance provided by the Bank should be coordinated
 with the technical assistance provided by the private sectors of Western
 countries so that technical assistance provided by the Bank complements
 and enhances technical assistance provided by the private sector, and other
 international donors;
 `(4) the provision of timely technical assistance can greatly facilitate trade
 with and direct investment in the Baltic states and the Soviet Union; and
 `(5) the provision of timely technical assistance by the Bank to the Baltic
 states and the Soviet Union can support democratic reforms, respect for
 human rights, and the rule of law.
 `(b) URGE ESTABLISHMENT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS BY THE BANK TO
 THE BALTIC STATES AND THE SOVIET UNION- The Secretary of the Treasury shall
 instruct the United States Executive Director of the Bank to use the voice
 and vote of the United States to urge--
 `(1) the Bank to establish a program to provide technical assistance to
 the Baltic states and the Soviet Union in support of democratic reforms,
 human rights, the rule of law, and market-oriented reforms; and
 `(2) the Bank to endeavor to coordinate its technical assistance to the
 Baltic states and to the Soviet Union so that technical assistance provided
 by the Bank complements and enhances technical assistance provided by the
 private sector, and other international donors.
 `(c) REPORT ON TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY THE BANK- Not later than May 1,
 1992, the Secretary of the Treasury shall, using resources of the Bank,
 report to the Congress on technical assistance by the Bank for the Baltic
 states and the Soviet Union, and on the progress made by such states toward
 implementing democratic reforms, respect for human rights, the rule of law,
 and market-oriented reforms.
 `(d) SOVIET UNION DEFINED- As used in this section, the term `Soviet Union'
 includes all successor states (other than the Baltic states) to the Soviet
 Union.'.
Subchapter C--Financial Assistance for Global Environmental Protection
SEC. 1331. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `Global Environmental Protection Assistance
 Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1332. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) the Global Environmental Facility (which was established in November
 1990) has as its goal the raising and expending of $1,500,000,000 to address
 4 worldwide environmental concerns, namely, reduction of global warming,
 preservation of biological diversity, protection of international waters,
 and prevention of further depletion of the planet's ozone layer;
 (2) more than 20 nations, 8 of which are in the developing world, have
 contributed a total of approximately $800,000,000 to the Global Environmental
 Facility for these purposes;
 (3) the United States should be a participant and a leader in accomplishing
 the worthwhile missions of the Global Environmental Facility;
 (4) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has been
 given the responsibility for administering the Global Environmental
 Facility Trust Fund, the United Nations Development Programme has been
 given the responsibility for the preparation of projects and the provision
 of technical assistance through its 113 resident representative offices
 throughout the world, and the United Nations Environment Programme has
 been given the responsibility for providing scientific and technological
 guidance in the selection of projects;
 (5) the United States should make a direct contribution to financing the
 international activities of the Global Environmental Facility with the
 understanding that--
 (A) clear guidelines must be established for the selection of projects;
 (B) a balance must be struck among the objectives of the Facility;
 (C) interested governmental and nongovernmental parties must be accorded
 appropriate opportunities for input into the processes of the Facility;
 (D) the funds of the Facility must be used with maximum leverage to attain
 the objectives of the Facility;
 (E) the Facility will consult with the Organization for Economic Coordination
 and Development to obtain the benefit of efforts undertaken pursuant to
 part B of title VII of the International Development and Finance Act of 1989;
 (F) the Facility will fund innovative projects that would not have been funded
 in the absence of the Facility, and the results of successful innovative
 measures will be introduced into mainstream lending activities of bilateral
 and multilateral donors, including the multilateral development banks;
 (G) the Facility governance process will provide for contributor country
 oversight of individual projects in the work program, and specific provisions
 will be established for the participation of nongovernmental organizations
 in all phases of the project cycle, including identification, appraisal,
 implementation, and evaluation; and
 (H) the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel will play a prominent role
 in programs of the Facility, developing guidelines for Facility activities
 in key areas and providing guidance on scientific and technical aspects of
 individual projects and on the composition of the Facility's portfolio of
 projects; and
 (6) the extent to which progress is made toward realization of these
 understandings will be a major factor in future consideration of these
 matters.
SEC. 1333. UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTION.
 (a) CONTRIBUTION AUTHORIZED- The Secretary of the Treasury may contribute
 on behalf of the United States $50,000,000 to the Global Environmental
 Facility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development if
 the Secretary has certified to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the
 Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and to the Committee on Banking,
 Finance and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
 Representatives that the Global Environmental Facility has made significant
 progress toward implementing the understandings set forth in section 1332(5).
 (b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the contribution
 authorized by subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated to
 the Secretary of the Treasury $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, which shall
 remain available until expended.
SEC. 1334. REPORT ON INTERNATIONAL DEBT EXCHANGES AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
 Title XVII of the International Financial Institutions Act (22
 U.S.C. 262r-262r-2) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 1704. REPORT ON INTERNATIONAL DEBT EXCHANGES AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
 `Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this section,
 the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the Committee on Banking,
 Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate regarding the progress made
 by the multilateral development banks (within the meaning of title XVI)
 in achieving the objectives of sections 1614, 1615, and 1616.'.
CHAPTER 3--ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SEC. 1341. UNITED STATES SUBSCRIPTION TO SPECIAL CAPITAL INCREASE.
 The Asian Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 285-285z) is amended by adding
 at the end the following:
`SEC. 30. CAPITAL INCREASE.
 `(a) SUBSCRIPTION AUTHORIZED-
 `(1) The United States Governor of the Bank is authorized to subscribe
 on behalf of the United States to 35,230 additional shares of the capital
 stock of the Bank.
 `(2) Any subscription by the United States to the capital stock of the Bank
 shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided
 in advance in appropriation Acts.
 `(b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In order to pay for
 the increase in the United States subscription to the Bank provided for
 in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal
 year limitation, $424,997,105 for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
CHAPTER 4--AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
SEC. 1351. UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTION.
 The African Development Fund Act (22 U.S.C. 290g-290g-14) is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 216. SIXTH REPLENISHMENT.
 `(a) CONTRIBUTION AUTHORIZED- The United States Governor of the Fund is
 authorized to contribute $405,000,000 to the sixth replenishment of the
 resources of the Fund, except that such authority shall be effective only to
 such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations
 Acts.
 `(b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In order to pay for
 the United States contribution provided for in this section, there are
 authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $405,000,000
 for payment by the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
CHAPTER 5--EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
SEC. 1361. REPEAL OF INADVERTENTLY INSERTED MATERIAL.
 Paragraph (7) of section 101(b) of the International Development and
 Finance Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-240), and the amendment made thereby,
 are hereby repealed, and the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 shall be applied
 and administered as if such paragraph had never been enacted.
SEC. 1362. APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF BANK PERSONNEL.
 Section 3(c) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635a(c))
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(9) PERSONNEL-
 `(A) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION- The Board of Directors shall fix the
 compensation of, and appoint and direct, employees of the Bank other than
 the directors. The Board may set and adjust rates of basic pay for such
 employees without regard to the provisions of chapter 51, or subchapter III
 of chapter 53, of title 5, United States Code. The Board of Directors may
 provide additional compensation and benefits to employees of the Bank if
 the same type of compensation or benefits are then being provided by any
 Federal bank regulatory agency or, if not then being so provided, could
 be provided by such an agency under applicable provisions of law, rule,
 or regulation. In setting and adjusting the total amount of compensation
 and benefits for employees of the Bank, the Board of Directors shall, in
 consultation with the Federal bank regulatory agencies, seek to maintain
 comparability with the total amount of compensation and benefits provided by
 such agencies to employees of such agencies, except that the Board shall not
 apply this sentence to reduce the total amount of compensation and benefits
 provided to any employee as of the date of the enactment of this paragraph.
 `(B) FUNDING- The salaries, expenses, and benefits of the officers and
 employees of the Bank shall continue to be paid from earnings of the Bank
 and repayments of loans and from borrowings.'.
SEC. 1363. INCREASE IN MEMBERSHIP OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 Section 3(d)(1)(A) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12
 U.S.C. 635a(d)(1)(A)) is amended by striking `twelve' and inserting `15'.
SEC. 1364. WAIVER OF LIMITATIONS ON FINANCING FOR EXPORTS TO THE SOVIET UNION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 7(b) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12
 U.S.C. 635e(b)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' before `After the date'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) The President may waive any limitation of this subsection if the
 President determines that it is important to the national interest of the
 United States.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 613 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19
 U.S.C. 2487) is amended by adding at the end the following: `The President
 may waive any limitation of this section if the President determines that
 such action is in the national interest of the United States.'.
SEC. 1365. FINANCING OF HIGH TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS TO EMERGING DEMOCRACIES.
 Section 2(b)(1) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(1))
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(H)(i) It is further the policy of the United States to foster the
 development of democratic institutions and market economies in countries
 seeking such development, and to assist the export of high technology items
 to such countries.
 `(ii) In exercising its authority, the Bank shall develop a program for
 providing guarantees and insurance with respect to the export of high
 technology items primarily to SEED program countries (as defined in section
 303(c) of the Support for Eastern European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989).
 `(iii) As part of the ongoing marketing and outreach efforts of the Bank,
 the Bank shall, to the maximum extent practicable, inform high technology
 companies, particularly small business concerns (as defined in section 3 of
 the Small Business Act), about the programs of the Bank for United States
 companies interested in exporting high technology goods to any SEED program
 country (as defined in section 303(c) of the Support for Eastern European
 Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989).
 `(iv) In carrying out clause (iii), the Bank shall--
 `(I) work with other agencies involved in export promotion and finance; and
 `(II) invite State and local governments, trade centers, commercial banks, and
 other appropriate public and private organizations to serve as intermediaries
 for the outreach efforts.'.
SEC. 1366. PROMOTION OF COMPETITIVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR UNITED STATES INSURANCE
COMPANIES.
 Section 2(d) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(d))
 is amended by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting the following:
 `(2) In the case of any long-term loan or guarantee of at least $10,000,000,
 the Bank shall seek to ensure that United States insurance companies are
 accorded a fair and open competitive opportunity to provide insurance against
 risk of loss in connection with any transaction with respect to which such
 loan or guarantee is provided.
 `(3) In any case in which the Bank becomes aware that a fair and open
 competitive opportunity is not available to any United States insurance
 company in a country with respect to which the Bank is considering a loan
 or guarantee, the Bank--
 `(A) may approve or deny the loan or guarantee after considering whether
 such a denial would be likely to achieve competitive access for United
 States insurance companies; and
 `(B) shall forward information regarding any country that denies United
 States insurance companies a fair and open competitive opportunity to the
 Secretary of Commerce who shall determine whether to--
 `(i) refer such trade barrier to the Trade Policy Committee created pursuant
 to the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1872); or
 `(ii) bring the matter before the existing interagency coordinating mechanism
 for consideration of a recommendation to the President that access by such
 country to export credit of the United States be restricted.
 `(4) In any case in which the Bank approves a loan or guarantee
 notwithstanding information regarding denial of competitive opportunities
 for United States insurance companies, the Bank shall include notice of such
 approval and the reason for such approval in the report on competition in
 officially supported export credit required by subsection (b)(1)(A).
 `(5) For purposes of this section:
 `(A) The term `United States insurance company'--
 `(i) includes an individual, partnership, corporation, holding company,
 or other legal entity which is authorized (or in the case of a holding
 company, subsidiaries of which are authorized) by a State to engage in the
 business of issuing insurance contracts or reinsuring the risk underwritten
 by insurance companies; and
 `(ii) includes foreign operations, branches, agencies, subsidiaries,
 affiliates, or joint ventures of any entity described in clause (i).
 `(B) The term `fair and open competitive opportunity' means, with respect
 to the provision of insurance by a United States insurance company, that
 the company--
 `(i) has received notice of the opportunity to provide such insurance; and
 `(ii) has been evaluated for such opportunity on a nondiscriminatory basis.'.
SEC. 1367. REPORT ON DEMAND FOR TRADE FINANCE FOR THE BALTIC STATES, AND
FOR THE SOVIET UNION AND ITS SUCCESSOR STATES.
 Not later than May 1, 1992, the Export-Import Bank of the United States
 shall transmit to the Congress a report analyzing the demand for loans,
 guarantees, and insurance for trade between the United States and the Baltic
 states, and between the United States and the Soviet Union, and shall make
 recommendations for the promotion of trade between the United States and
 such countries. As used in this section, the term `Soviet Union' includes
 all successor states (other than the Baltic states) to the Soviet Union.
SEC. 1368. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS THAT THE PRESIDENT SHOULD GRANT WAIVERS
FOR ESTONIA, LATVIA, AND LITHUANIA.
 It is the sense of the Congress that the President should make the
 determination that Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania each have ceased to be a
 Marxist-Leninist country for purposes of section 2(b)(2) of the Export-Import
 Bank Act of 1945.
SEC. 1369. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments and repeals made by this title shall take effect on October
 1, 1991.
CHAPTER 6--MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
Subchapter A--Energy Efficiency
SEC. 1371. SHORT TITLE.
 This subchapter may be cited as the `International Energy Efficiency
 Financing Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1372. ADVANCING THE BENEFITS OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY THROUGH MULTILATERAL
DEVELOPMENT BANKS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) between one-sixth and one-fifth of the total loans of the multilateral
 development banks have been for energy supply;
 (2) since 1980, less than 1 percent of energy-related spending has been
 for end-use energy efficiency improvements;
 (3) per capita energy use in developing countries is at 5 to 10 percent
 of the level of per capita energy use in countries of the Organization for
 Economic Cooperation and Development;
 (4) from 1973 to 1988, energy use in developing countries has increased
 rapidly, from 14 to 23 percent of world energy consumption;
 (5) energy consumption in developing countries over the past 30 years
 has quadrupled, and if present population and energy use trends continue,
 in approximately 20 years developing countries could be consuming as much
 energy as industrialized countries;
 (6) the capital required to finance the growth in energy supply at current
 levels of energy efficiency has been estimated at $1,000,000,000,000 over
 the next decade by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
 increasing to between $145,000,000,000 to $200,000,000,000 per year during the
 first quarter of the next century, making the range of capital expenditures
 for energy purposes in developing countries approximately $4,300,000,000,000
 for the next 35 years;
 (7) careful studies by agencies of the international financial institutions,
 agencies of the United States, and private nonprofit organizations estimate
 that 20 to 25 percent of energy costs could be avoided over the near term by
 using commercially available technologies, and that perhaps 30 to 60 percent
 of such costs could be avoided over the long term as capital investments are
 made in generation and transmission equipment, new buildings, appliances,
 and industrial processes;
 (8) every possible effort should be made to realize as much of these potential
 capital savings as possible in the interest of optimizing the deployment by
 developing nations of their development funds, conserving the capital of
 international financial institutions and their donor nations, restraining
 environmental degradation, improving the debt situation of energy importers,
 and constraining the demand for energy imports for national security
 purposes; and
 (9) the United States should take the lead in advocating programs at
 the multinational financial institutions that have the best prospects of
 maximizing potential savings from energy efficiency over the near- and
 long-term periods.
 (b) ADVANCING THE BENEFITS OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY THROUGH MULTILATERAL
 DEVELOPMENT BANKS- Title XIII of the International Financial Institutions
 Act (22 U.S.C. 262m-262m-7) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 1308. ADVANCING THE BENEFITS OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY THROUGH MULTILATERAL
DEVELOPMENT BANKS.
 `(a) DEMONSTRATION OF BENEFITS OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY- The Secretary of
 the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director of each
 multilateral development bank to use the voice and vote of the United States
 to take the lead in demonstrating to the respective bank and potential
 borrowers programs for measuring the efficacy of the application of systems
 energy efficiency planning and techniques, in energy supply matters and in
 such areas as affordable shelter, the built environment and urban development
 generally, transportation of persons and freight and related land use,
 and agricultural and industrial processes.
 `(b) INCENTIVES FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS- The Secretary of the Treasury
 shall instruct the United States Executive Director of each multilateral
 development bank to use the voice and vote of the United States to take
 a leadership position in devising a system of incentives, for adoption by
 the respective bank, that would promote the application of cost effective
 energy efficiency programs.
 `(c) AVAILABILITY OF ASSESSMENTS BEFORE VOTE ON ACTION SIGNIFICANTLY
 AFFECTING ENERGY EFFICIENCY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United
 States Executive Director of each multilateral development bank to use the
 voice and vote of the United States to advocate that, beginning 2 years after
 the date of the enactment of this section, the respective bank establish
 procedures to ensure that, at the time of any vote in favor of any action
 proposed to be taken by the respective bank which would have a significant
 effect on energy efficiency--
 `(A) assessments analyzing the impacts on energy efficiency of the proposed
 action and of alternatives to the proposed action have been completed by
 the borrowing country and the institution, and have been made available to
 the board of directors of the institution for at least 120 days before the
 date of the vote; and
 `(B) except as provided in paragraph (2), such assessments or a comprehensive
 summary of such assessments have been made available to the multilateral
 development bank, affected groups, and nongovernmental organizations.
 `(2) EXCEPTIONS AND REPORTS-
 `(A) EXCEPTIONS- The requirement of paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply where
 the Secretary finds compelling reasons to believe that disclosure in any case
 described in paragraph (1) would jeopardize the confidential relationship
 between the borrower country and the respective bank.
 `(B) REPORTS BY SECRETARY- The Secretary shall submit an annual report in
 writing to the Committees specified in subsection (h)(1) of the findings
 described in subparagraph (A).
 `(d) ACCESS TO ASSESSMENTS IN ALL MEMBER COUNTRIES- The Secretary
 of the Treasury shall seek the adoption of policies and procedures,
 through discussions and negotiations with the other member countries of
 the multilateral development banks and with the management of such banks,
 which result in access by governmental agencies and interested members of
 the public of such member countries to energy efficiency assessments by the
 borrowing country and the lending institution or documentary information
 containing comprehensive summaries of such assessments which discuss the
 impact on energy efficiency of prospective projects and programs being
 considered by such banks. Such assessments or summaries should be made
 available to such governmental agencies and interested members of the public
 at least 120 days before scheduled board action, and public participation
 in review of the relevant energy efficiency information should be encouraged.
 `(e) CONSIDERATION OF ASSESSMENTS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall--
 `(1) ensure that an energy efficiency impact assessment prepared by the
 borrowing nation or a comprehensive summary of such assessment as described
 in subsection (c), and a reviewing assessment by the lending institution,
 accompanies loan proposals through the agency review process; and
 `(2) take into consideration recommendations from all other interested
 Federal agencies and interested members of the public.
 `(f) DEVELOPMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR SYSTEMATIC ENERGY EFFICIENCY ASSESSMENTS-
 The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with other appropriate
 Federal agencies, shall--
 `(1) instruct the United States Executive Director of each multilateral
 development bank to initiate discussions with the other executive directors
 of the respective bank and to propose that the respective bank develop and
 make available to member governments of, and borrowers from, the respective
 bank, within 12 months after the date of the enactment of this section,
 a procedure for the systematic assessment of the energy efficiency aspects
 of development projects and other activities for which the respective bank
 provides financial or technical assistance, taking into consideration
 general professional standards for assessing energy efficiency matters,
 and bilateral or multilateral assessment procedures; and
 `(2) in determining the position of the United States on any action proposed
 to be taken by a multilateral development bank, develop and prescribe
 procedures for the consideration of, among other things--
 `(A) the energy efficiency impact assessments of the action described in
 subsection (c);
 `(B) interagency and public review of such assessments; and
 `(C) other energy efficiency review and consultation of such actions that
 is required by other law.
 `(g) USE OF UNITED STATES PERSONNEL- The Secretary of the Treasury, in
 consultation with other appropriate Federal agencies, shall--
 `(1) make available to the multilateral development banks, without charge,
 appropriate United States Government personnel to assist in--
 `(A) training staff of the bank and appropriate personnel of borrowing
 countries in energy efficiency impact assessment procedures;
 `(B) providing advice on energy efficiency issues;
 `(C) preparing energy efficiency studies for projects with potentially
 significant energy efficiency impacts; and
 `(D) preparing documents for public release, and developing procedures to
 provide for the inclusion of interested nongovernmental organization in
 the energy efficiency review process; and
 `(2) encourage other member countries to such banks to provide similar
 assistance.
 `(h) REPORTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee
 on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives--
 `(A) not later than the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date of
 the enactment of this section, a progress report on the efficacy of efforts
 by the United States to encourage consistent and timely energy efficiency
 impact assessment of actions proposed to be taken by the multilateral
 development banks and on the progress made by the multilateral development
 banks in developing and instituting energy efficiency assessment policies
 and procedures; and
 `(B) not later than the end of the 3-year period beginning on the date of
 the enactment of this section, a detailed report on the matters described
 in subparagraph (A).
 `(2) AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS- The reports required by paragraph (1) shall
 be made available to the member governments of, and the borrowers from,
 the multilateral development banks, and to the public.
 `(i) MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANK DEFINED- As used in this section, the
 term `multilateral development bank' has the meaning given such term in
 section 1701(c)(4).
 `(j) SCOPE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY- For purposes of the assessments referred
 to in this section, energy efficiency shall be measured by the general
 principle of increased output per unit of input, and such assessments
 shall consider such concepts and techniques as systems energy efficiency,
 energy conservation, reduction of energy waste, end use energy efficiency,
 integrated resource planning, least cost planning, and alternative and
 renewable sources of energy.'.
Subchapter B--Alleviation of Poverty, Reduction of Barriers to Economic and
Social Progress, and Other Provisions
SEC. 1381. EFFORTS TO ALLEVIATE POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO ECONOMIC AND
SOCIAL PROGRESS.
 Section 1613 of the International Financial Institutions Act (22
 U.S.C. 262p-4h) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(c) EFFORTS OF REGIONAL MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS TO ALLEVIATE
 POVERTY AND REDUCE BARRIERS TO ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROGRESS- The Secretary
 of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director of each
 regional multilateral development bank to advocate in discussion with the
 other directors of the respective bank and with the respective bank that
 the respective bank should, in pursuing the objectives described in section
 64(a) of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act, establish an organizational unit
 to aid the management of the respective bank in developing and monitoring
 policies and strategies for the sustained reduction of poverty and for the
 reduction of legal, regulatory, and policy barriers to economic and social
 progress and equity, including land reform, tax policy, and access to credit
 and social services, especially for women.'.
SEC. 1382. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING DEBT RESTRUCTURING.
 Title XV of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262o)
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 1502. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING DEBT RESTRUCTURING.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of each multilateral development bank that, notwithstanding the
 need of the respective bank to assess country creditworthiness in extending
 loans, it is against the policy of the United States for the respective bank
 to impose, as a condition of approving a loan or releasing funds under any
 loan that has been approved by the bank, that the borrowing country reach
 an agreement on debt reduction with its commercial bank creditors.'.
SEC. 1383. PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
 Title XIX of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262t)
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 1902. PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of each international financial institution to use the voice and
 the vote of the United States--
 `(1) to continue to advance policies that provide for the participation of
 women in economic, social, and policy development activities; and
 `(2) to encourage borrowing countries to fully involve women in the
 identification, planning, implementation, and evaluation of mainstream
 development activities financed by the respective institution.'.
SEC. 1384. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND COMPARABLE PAY.
 Title XIX of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262t)
 is amended by adding after the section added by section 1383 of this Act
 the following:
`SEC. 1903. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND COMPARABLE PAY.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of each international financial institution to use the voice and
 the vote of the United States--
 `(1) to urge the respective institution to reflect the diversity of the
 population in its hiring practices;
 `(2) to encourage the respective institution to be attentive to, and to
 strengthen and expand, its policies on employment opportunities in recruiting,
 hiring, promoting, and compensating minorities and women; and
 `(3) to encourage the respective institution to adopt compensation policies
 and programs to ensure that in the institution comparable pay is provided
 for people in comparable jobs.'.
SEC. 1385. DIRECTIVE RELATING TO MULTILATERAL AID TO THE HORN OF AFRICA.
 Title XV of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262o)
 is amended by adding after the section added by section 1382 of this Act
 the following:
`SEC. 1503. DIRECTIVE RELATING TO MULTILATERAL AID TO THE HORN OF AFRICA.
 `(a) INSTRUCTIONS TO UNITED STATES EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS- The Secretary of
 the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director of each
 multilateral development bank to use the voice and vote of the United States
 to oppose any loan, except to meet basic human needs, of the respective
 institution to Ethiopia, Somalia, or Sudan, until the President makes the
 certification described in subsection (b) for the country.
 `(b) CERTIFICATION- The certification referred to in subsection (a) for
 a country is a certification by the President to the Committee on Foreign
 Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
 Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives,
 that the government of the country--
 `(1) has begun to implement peace agreements, national reconciliation
 agreements, or both;
 `(2) has demonstrated a commitment to human rights (within the meaning of
 sections 283 and 691(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961);
 `(3) has manifested a commitment to democracy, has held or scheduled
 free and fair elections, and has agreed to implement the results of those
 elections; and
 `(4) has agreed to distribute developmental assistance on the basis of need
 without regard to political affiliation, geographic location, or the ethnic,
 tribal, or religious identity of the recipient.
 `(c) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `multilateral
 development bank' includes the International Bank for Reconstruction
 and Development, the International Development Association, the African
 Development Bank, and the African Development Fund.'.
SEC. 1386. ENCOURAGEMENT OF FAIR LABOR PRACTICES.
 Title XIX of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262t)
 is amended by adding after the sections added by sections 1383 and 1384 of
 this Act the following:
`SEC. 1904. ENCOURAGEMENT OF FAIR LABOR PRACTICES.
 `The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive
 Director of each international financial institution--
 `(1) to use the voice and vote of the United States to urge such institution
 to encourage borrowing countries, as an instrument of economic development,
 to engage in fair labor practices consistent with internationally recognized
 worker rights, within the context of their own level of economic development;
 and
 `(2) to report to the Secretary of the Treasury, on a regular basis,
 on actions taken by such institution to promote the goal of fair labor
 practices referred to in paragraph (1).'.
Subchapter C--Financial Integrity
SEC. 1391. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR INTERNAL AUDITS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
 Title XV of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262o)
 is amended by adding after the sections added by sections 1382 and 1385 of
 this Act the following:
`SEC. 1504. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR INTERNAL AUDITS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
 `(a) PROPOSE ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL IN EACH MULTILATERAL
 FINANCIAL INSTITUTION- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the
 United States Executive Director of each international financial institution
 (as defined in section 1701(c)(2)) to use the voice and vote of the United
 States to ensure that within their respective institutions an office of
 Inspector General or the equivalent thereof is established that undertakes
 the activities described in subsection (b).
 `(b) ACTIVITIES- The purposes of such office must be--
 `(1) to conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to the
 programs and operations of the institution;
 `(2) to provide recommendations for economy, efficiency, and effectiveness
 in the administration of such programs and operations;
 `(3) to prevent and detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations;
 and
 `(4) to provide a means for keeping the chief executive officer and the
 board of directors of the institution fully and currently informed about
 problems and deficiencies relating to the administration of such programs
 and operations and the necessity for and progress of corrective action.
 `(c) SUPERVISION AND OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS-
 `(1) APPOINTMENT OF HEAD OF OFFICE- The chief executive officer of the
 institution should appoint the head of such office, without regard to
 political affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity and demonstrated
 ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis,
 public administration, or investigations.
 `(2) INDEPENDENCE OF HEAD OF OFFICE- The head of such office should report
 to and be under the general supervision of the chief executive officer of
 the institution, or to the extent such authority is delegated, the officer
 next in rank below the chief executive officer, but must not report to, and
 be subject to the supervision of, any other officer of the institution. The
 head of such office should not be prevented or prohibited from initiating,
 carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation.
 `(3) REMOVAL OF HEAD OF OFFICE- The head of such office should be removable
 from such position only by the chief executive officer of the institution who
 must communicate the reasons for any such removal to the board of directors
 of the institution.
 `(d) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HEAD OF SUCH OFFICE- The head of
 such office should have duties substantially equivalent to the following:
 `(1) To provide policy direction for the audit and investigative functions of
 the office, and conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations
 relating to the programs and operations of the institution.
 `(2) To recommend policies for, and to conduct, supervise, and coordinate
 relationships between the institution and other international financial
 institutions with respect to audit and investigative functions.
The head of such office should conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits
relating to the programs and operations of the institution in accordance
with appropriate accounting and auditing principles.
 `(e) TERM OF OFFICE OF HEAD OF SUCH OFFICE- The head of such office should be
 appointed for a term that is of sufficient duration to ensure the independence
 of such official.
 `(f) PROVISION OF RESOURCES- Such office should be provided with sufficient
 resources relating to staff to enable the office to carry out its duties.
 `(g) REPORTS- The head of such office should prepare detailed annual reports
 summarizing the activities of such office during the immediately preceding
 12-month period, and should submit such reports simultaneously to--
 `(1) the officer of the institution with general supervisory authority over
 the head of such office; and
 `(2) the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the institution, or a
 committee of the board duly constituted for such purpose.'.
CHAPTER 7--CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTS
SEC. 1399. CONSOLIDATION OF CERTAIN REPORTS.
 Section 1701(b) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22
 U.S.C. 262r(b)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (10);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (11) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(12) a compilation of the text or summary of, or references to, any other
 reports required by the Bretton Woods Agreements Act or this Act.'.
TITLE XIV--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 1401. FOOD AS A HUMAN RIGHT.
 (a) THE RIGHT TO FOOD AND UNITED STATES FOREIGN POLICY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The United States shall, in accordance with its international
 obligations and in keeping with the longstanding humanitarian tradition
 of the United States, promote increased respect internationally for the
 rights to food and to medical care, including the protection of these rights
 with respect to civilians and noncombatants during times of armed conflict
 (such as through ensuring safe passage of relief supplies and access to
 impartial humanitarian relief organizations providing relief assistance).
 (2) RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS
 AND HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS- The responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary
 of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs shall include promoting
 increased respect internationally for the rights to food and to medical
 care in accordance with paragraph (1).
 (b) UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON THE RIGHT TO FOOD- It is the sense of the
 Congress that a major effort should be made to strengthen the rights to food
 in international law to assure the access of all persons to adequate food
 supplies. Toward that end, the Secretary of State, through the United States
 Representative to the United Nations, should propose to the United Nations
 General Assembly that a Declaration and a Convention concerning the right to
 food be adopted and submitted to the countries of the world for ratification.
SEC. 1402. ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN POLICY.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `United States Environmental
 Security and Foreign Policy Act of 1991'.
 (b) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) Environmental protection must play a pivotal role in United States
 foreign policy, especially in light of rapidly increased understanding of
 the pervasive nature of global environmental problems.
 (2) Transnational environmental threats to the economic and social well-being
 of individuals, nations, and the global community and the means to adequately
 address such problems are likely to pose an increasing challenge in the
 formulation of United States foreign policy, and international diplomacy
 on environmental issues must constitute a high priority in the conduct of
 United States foreign policy.
 (3) If sustainable economic development is to be achieved, protection of
 the environment, especially through prevention of environmental degradation,
 must be a major goal of United States foreign policy.
 (c) CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN POLICY-
 In order to encourage the establishment of global environmental security,
 the Congress declares the following to be the policy of the United States:
 (1) Current and potential threats to the global environment shall be assessed,
 and appropriate measures shall be taken to obtain international cooperation
 on environmental protection.
 (2) United States foreign policy to achieve global environmental security
 shall be based on the following fundamental principles:
 (A) Protection of human life from the adverse effects of environmental
 degradation.
 (B) Protection of the atmosphere from degradation or adverse changes arising
 from human activity.
 (C) Protection of biological diversity.
 (D) Protection of the world's forest cover.
 (E) Protection of the oceans from human induced pollution and from misuse
 of living marine resources.
 (F) Broad-based environmentally sustainable development as a basic objective
 of United States foreign assistance.
 (G) Integration of economic and environmental decisionmaking processes.
 (3) In recognition of the environmental factors that affect relations
 among countries, the President, in consultation with appropriate government
 agencies, shall--
 (A) identify and evaluate elements of environmental programs of the United
 States Government with significant international implications or applications;
 (B) identify and evaluate international environmental developments with
 significant implications for or applications in the United States; and
 (C) initiate and participate in international environmental activities
 directed to the identification and resolution of international environmental
 problems and issues.
 (4) In order to implement the policies set forth in this section, the
 Secretary of State shall have primary responsibility, subject to and in
 accordance with other applicable provision of law, to coordinate and oversee
 all major environmental agreements and activities between the United States
 and foreign countries, international organizations, and commissions of
 which the United States and one or more foreign countries are members.
 (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- On May 1, 1992, and biennially thereafter,
 the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Congress containing
 information and recommendations with respect to the following:
 (1) Major multilateral environmental initiatives and negotiations concluded
 or in process, including identification of key issues and United States
 positions.
 (2) Bilateral agreements on the environment in effect, by issue.
 (3) United States participation in and support of environment programs in
 international organizations and multilateral development banks, including
 policies on environment protection encouraged by the United States and
 actions taken with regard to the policies by such institutions.
 (4) International cooperation activities with respect to research and
 monitoring of environmental and natural resource conditions, including
 identification of United States funding levels and in-kind participation.
 (5) Environmental policies and activities of the United States in providing
 foreign assistance.
SEC. 1403. REFORMING THE UNITED NATIONS RESPONSE TO INTERNATIONAL DISASTERS.
 It is the sense of the Congress that a major effort should be made to reform
 and restructure the United Nations mechanism for responding to international
 disasters and other humanitarian emergencies. Toward that end, the Secretary
 of State, through the United States Representative to the United Nations,
 shall evaluate the role of the United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
 (UNDRO) and shall develop a proposal for strengthening the United Nations
 response to such emergencies. In formulating such proposal, the Secretary
 of State and the United States Representative to the United Nations shall
 give strong consideration to proposals that have been made for strengthening
 the United Nations responsiveness to disasters, including the following:
 (1) The appointment by the Secretary General of a senior representative to
 be responsible for humanitarian affairs (including disaster response), whose
 office would be vested with sufficient authority, support, and resources
 to develop new procedures and coordination mechanisms to become the United
 Nations lead agency in international disaster relief matters.
 (2) Creation of a standing interagency group, consisting of all United
 Nations agencies involved in disaster assistance, with a secretariat based
 in the office referred to in paragraph (1).
SEC. 1404. NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION REGIMES IN SOUTH ASIA AND OTHER REGIONS.
 (a) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) the problems of halting international commerce in nuclear-weapons-related
 technology, of prohibiting the development, acquisition, or use of nuclear
 weapons, and of responding to the effects of nuclear war are global in nature;
 (2) progress toward resolving these problems requires the agreement of all
 countries to undertake binding, universal, and nondiscriminatory commitments
 to global principles represented by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
 of Nuclear Weapons and the safeguards system implemented pursuant to that
 Treaty by the International Atomic Energy Agency;
 (3) the design, negotiation, and development of regional nuclear
 nonproliferation regimes in South America, the Middle East, South Asia, East
 Asia, and in other regions can serve the global interest by reinforcing the
 universal standards and principles of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
 of Nuclear Weapons and the safeguards verification system of that Treaty,
 as implemented by the International Atomic Energy Agency;
 (4) agreements among countries promising not to attack one another's
 nuclear facilities are useful measures that can contribute to the creation
 of nuclear nonproliferation regimes;
 (5) timely information about the progress of these nonproliferation regimes
 toward achievement of these global nonproliferation objectives is essential
 to the Congress in the deliberation, formulation, and oversight of United
 States nuclear nonproliferation policy; and
 (6) the President should pursue a regional negotiated solution to the issue
 of nuclear nonproliferation in the countries of South Asia, including at
 least the countries of the People's Republic of China, India, and Pakistan,
 and the President should seek an accord to be signed by all nuclear weapon
 states in the Asian region which would prohibit nuclear attacks or the threat
 to use nuclear weapons by nuclear weapon states on countries in South Asia.
 (b) REPORT- The President shall submit to the Congress in January of 1992,
 and in January of each year thereafter, a report describing the progress made
 and obstacles encountered in establishing regional nuclear nonproliferation
 regimes in South America, the Middle East, South Asia, East Asia, and other
 regions. Each such report shall include a description of--
 (1) any new regional agreements, treaties, or institutions that are created
 to advance global nuclear nonproliferation objectives;
 (2) any new regional verification procedures and sanctions mechanisms to
 ensure progress toward achieving global nuclear nonproliferation objectives;
 (3) any new proposals from countries in these regions to foster the
 development of regional regimes that promote global nuclear nonproliferation
 objectives; and
 (4) a classified evaluation of any evidence that any country has engaged in
 the previous year in activities described in subparagraphs (A) through (D)
 of section 601(a)(3) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 or any
 other nuclear-weapon-related activity described in section 669 or 670 of
 the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, together with an unclassified summary
 of this evidence.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.