--H.R.4328--
H.R.4328
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for orderly imports of textiles, apparel, and footwear.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Textile, Apparel, and Footwear Trade Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. POLICY.
 The policy of this Act is to--
 (1) relate the growth of textile and clothing imports to the growth of the
 domestic market in order to prevent further disruption of the United States
 textiles and textile products markets, damage to United States textile and
 clothing manufacturers, and loss of job opportunities for United States
 textile and clothing workers; and
 (2) maintain a viable United States nonrubber footwear industry by preventing
 further damage to United States nonrubber footwear manufacturers and loss
 of job opportunities for United States nonrubber footwear workers.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) with respect to textiles and textile products--
 (A) the current level of imports of textiles and textile products from all
 sources, more than one hundred and sixty-five countries, reached nearly twelve
 billion one hundred million square meter equivalents in 1989, an increase of
 13 percent over 1988 imports; this level of imports is three times the level
 of imports in 1980, a rate of increase that was not foreseen when the United
 States granted trade concessions benefiting foreign suppliers of textiles
 and textile products, and represents over one million four hundred thousand
 job opportunities lost to United States textile, apparel, and fiber workers;
 (B) imported textiles and textile products contain five million bales
 of cotton which is equivalent to 40 percent of annual cotton production
 in the United States; eight out of every ten bales of cotton contained
 in imported textiles and clothing are foreign grown cotton; sustained
 massive increases in imports of cotton textile and clothing products are
 causing a declining market share for domestic cotton producers, depressed
 prices, and an average annual market revenue loss of over $1,000,000,000;
 another result is that a market development program voluntarily funded by
 United States cotton producers actually benefits foreign powers; finally,
 as imports of textiles and clothing increase, domestic cotton acreage
 is shifted to produce other agricultural products which are already in
 oversupply thereby adding to the problems of United States agriculture;
 (C) imports of textiles and textile products made of wool have nearly
 doubled since 1980, creating major disruptions among domestic wool products
 producers of United States produced raw wool; because import penetration
 in the domestic wool textile and clothing market is nearly 70 percent, it
 is critical that action be taken to halt further erosion of the domestic
 industry's market share;
 (D) imports of textiles and textile products made of manmade fiber and
 competing fibers, other than cotton or wool, have more than doubled since
 1980 resulting in substantial reductions in domestic manmade fiber production
 capacity and job losses;
 (E) the textile and clothing trade deficit of the United States exceeded
 $26,000,000,000 in 1989, an increase of 8 percent over 1988, and accounted
 for 21 percent of the Nation's overall merchandise trade deficit;
 (F) import growth of clothing and clothing fabrics has averaged 10 percent
 annually since 1973; over the same period, the domestic market for clothing
 and clothing fabrics has grown only 1 percent annually; the result is that
 import penetration in the domestic clothing and clothing fabric market has
 more than doubled in the last ten years, reaching a level of 58 percent
 in 1989;
 (G) as a result of this increased penetration and the very limited growth
 of the domestic market, the United States companies producing textiles and
 textile products competitive with those imported have been seriously damaged,
 many of them have been forced out of business, have closed plants or curtailed
 operations, workers in such companies have lost employment and have been
 otherwise materially and adversely affected, and serious hardship has been
 inflicted on hundreds of impacted communities causing a substantial reduction
 in economic activity and lost revenues to the Federal and local governments;
 (H) the factors described above are causing serious damage, or the actual
 threat thereof, to domestic producers of textiles and textile products; as a
 result, market disruption exists in the United States requiring new measures;
 (I) unless the import growth rate of textiles and textile products is slowed
 to the long-term rate of growth of the United States market, plant closings
 and job losses will continue to accelerate, leaving the United States with
 reduced competition benefiting domestic consumers and leaving the Nation
 in a less competitive international position;
 (J) a strong, viable, and efficient domestic textiles and textile products
 industry is essential in order to avoid impairment of the national security
 of the United States; and
 (K) actions taken by the United States under the Arrangement Regarding
 International Trade in Textiles of December 20, 1973, as extended (commonly
 referred to as the `Multi Fiber Arrangement' or `MFA') have failed to
 avoid disruptive effects in the textiles and textile products markets in
 the United States; and
 (2) with respect to nonrubber footwear--
 (A) nonrubber footwear imports in 1988 reached a level of eight hundred and
 sixty million pairs; this volume of imports is two and one-fourth times that
 of 1981, the year that import relief for the nonrubber footwear industry
 terminated, and is 2.1 percent above 1985 levels, the year in which the
 International Trade Commission issued its third finding that the domestic
 nonrubber footwear industry has been seriously injured by increased imports;
 (B) since 1981, import growth of nonrubber footwear has averaged more than
 11 percent per year, gaining market share at the expense of the domestic
 industry; in 1981, import penetration of the domestic nonrubber footwear
 market was 51 percent; by 1989, import penetration reached 80 percent;
 (C) as a direct result of imports, domestic nonrubber footwear production
 has declined, reaching two hundred and twenty-six million pairs in 1989,
 a production level matched only during the Great Depression in the 1930's;
 (D) domestic nonrubber footwear employment has declined significantly since
 1981 and is down 45 percent from 1981 levels and 19.3 percent from 1985
 levels; and
 (E) domestic nonrubber footwear production facilities are closing at an
 alarming rate, with over four hundred and eight factory closings since 1981,
 of which twenty-one closings occurred in 1989 alone.
 (b) DETERMINATIONS- Congress determines that, for the foregoing reasons--
 (1) textiles and textile products are being imported into the United States in
 such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten
 serious injury to producers of textiles and textile products in the United
 States, and
 (2) nonrubber footwear is being imported into the United States in such
 increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten
 serious injury to producers of nonrubber footwear in the United States,
within the meaning of article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade.
SEC. 4. LIMITS ON IMPORTS.
 (a) CALENDAR YEAR 1990- Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
 (1) the aggregate quantity of textiles and textile products, from all
 countries, classified under a category that is entered during calendar
 year 1990 shall not exceed an amount equal to 101 percent of the aggregate
 quantity of such products classified under such category, from all countries,
 that entered during calendar year 1989, and
 (2) the aggregate quantity of nonrubber footwear, from all countries,
 classified under a nonrubber footwear category that is entered during
 calendar year 1990, and during each calendar year thereafter, shall not
 exceed an amount equal to--
 (A) the aggregate quantity of nonrubber footwear classified under such
 category, from all countries, that entered during calendar year 1989, and
 (B) in the case of high-priced nonrubber footwear, notwithstanding
 subparagraph (A), the aggregate quantity of high-priced nonrubber footwear
 classified under such category, from all countries, that entered during
 calendar year 1989.
 (b) GROWTH ADJUSTMENT- For calendar years after 1990, the aggregate quantity
 of textiles and textile products, from all countries, classified under
 each category that may be entered during each such calendar year shall be
 increased by an amount equal to 1 percent of the aggregate quantity that
 could be entered under such category during the preceding calendar year. If
 the aggregate quantity that could be entered under a category for a calendar
 year after 1990 is reduced under section 10(b), then in the first calendar
 year in which there is no such reduction, this subsection shall be applied as
 if there had been no reduction under section 10(b) in previous calendar years.
 (c) Exceptions-
 (1) The limitations in this Act on the aggregate quantity of articles of
 textiles and textile products that may be entered during any calendar year
 do not apply to articles of that kind that are the product of any insular
 possession of the United States if the articles are--
 (A) exempt from duty under general headnote 3(a)(iv) of the Harmonized
 Tariff Schedule of the United States; and
 (B) manufactured or produced in such possession by individuals who are
 either--
 (i) United States citizens;
 (ii) United States nationals; or
 (iii) permanent residents of such possession in accordance with its laws.
 (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the aggregate quantity of
 sweaters that are--
 (A) made of cotton, wool, or manmade fibers; and
 (B) assembled in Guam from otherwise completed knit-to-shape component parts;
and that may be entered--
 (i) during calendar year 1990, may not exceed one hundred sixty-eight
 thousand one hundred and sixty-two dozen; and
 (ii) during any calendar year after 1990, may not exceed the aggregate
 quantity that is authorized to be entered under this paragraph during the
 preceding calendar year, increased by 1 percent.
 (3) The limitations in this Act on the aggregate quantity of textiles, textile
 products and nonrubber footwear that may be entered during any calendar
 year do not apply to articles that are the products of Canada or Israel.
 (4) The amount of textiles and textile products classified under each
 category entered during calendar year 1990, and during each calendar year
 thereafter, from beneficiary countries under the Caribbean Basin Initiative
 shall equal the quantity of such products of such countries classified under
 such category that entered in 1989 and any increases that the President
 shall negotiate or allocate within the limits of section 4(a)(1).
 (d) ENFORCEMENT- The Secretary of Commerce shall prescribe such regulations
 as may be necessary or appropriate for the efficient and fair administration
 of the provisions of this Act, including regulations governing entry, or
 withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption of the products covered by this
 Act. Such regulations shall provide for reasonable spacing of imports over
 the calendar year.
 (e) ALLOCATIONS FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES- Regulations may be prescribed under
 subsection (d) only if such regulations ensure that--
 (1) an amount of the limitation imposed by this section on the aggregate
 quantity of textiles and textile products classified under each category
 entered during calendar year 1991 and during each succeeding calendar year
 (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the `applicable year') is
 allocated to such products of each country to which the total quantity of
 United States agricultural products exported on commercial terms during the
 calendar year preceding the applicable year exceeds the total quantity of
 United States agricultural products exported on commercial terms to such
 country during the calendar year before the calendar year preceding the
 applicable year; and
 (2) the amount of textiles and textile products classified under each
 category entered during the applicable year that is allocated to each
 country under paragraph (1) exceeds the quantity of such products of such
 country classified under such category that entered during the calendar
 year preceding the applicable year.
SEC. 5. TARIFF COMPENSATION.
 (a) Compensation-
 (1) The President may (A) enter into trade agreements with foreign countries
 or instrumentalities to grant new concessions as compensation, to the
 extent required under international trade agreements of the United States,
 for the import limits imposed under section 4 of this Act to maintain the
 general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions under
 such agreements; and (B) proclaim such modification or continuance of any
 existing duty on textiles and textile products and on nonrubber footwear
 as the President determines to be required or appropriate to carry out
 such agreements.
 (2) No proclamation shall be made under paragraph (1) decreasing any rate
 of duty to a rate of duty which is less than 90 percent of the existing
 rate of duty.
 (3) Before entering into any trade agreement under this subsection with any
 foreign country or instrumentality, the President shall consider whether
 such country or instrumentality has violated trade concessions of benefit
 to the United States and such violation has not been adequately offset by
 the action of the United States or by such country or instrumentality.
 (b) STAGING REQUIREMENTS- The aggregate reduction in the rate of duty on any
 article which is in effect on any date pursuant to subsection (a) shall not
 exceed the aggregate reduction which would have been in effect on such date
 if a reduction of one-fifth of the total reduction under subsection (a) had
 taken effect on the effective date of the first reduction proclaimed to carry
 out such trade agreement, and at one-year intervals after such effective date.
 (c) PROHIBITION- Except as provided in subsection (a) and notwithstanding any
 other provision of law, the President may not enter into trade negotiations
 with any foreign country or instrumentality with respect to duties on textiles
 and textile products and on nonrubber footwear  and  may  not  decrease,
 or  propose  a  decrease, in  any  such  duty  by  any  means,  including
 an  implementing  bill  under  section  151  of  the  Trade  Act  of  1974
 (19  U.S.C.  2191)  or  a proclamation.
SEC. 6. ANNUAL REPORT.
 Not later than March 15, 1991, and March 15 of each calendar year thereafter,
 the President shall submit to the Congress a report on the administration
 of this Act during the preceding calendar year. Such report shall include
 detailed information about the implementation and operation of the limitations
 established under section 4. All departments and agencies shall cooperate
 in preparation of this report, as requested by the President.
SEC. 7. REVIEW.
 The Secretary of Commerce shall commence, ten years after the date of
 enactment of this Act, a review of the operation of this Act. The Secretary
 shall consult representatives of workers and companies in the textile and
 textile products and nonrubber footwear industries, the United States Trade
 Representative, the Secretary of Labor, and other appropriate Government
 officials. Within six months after the commencement of the study, the
 Secretary shall submit to the Congress the findings of the Secretary.
SEC. 8. AUCTION OF IMPORT LICENSES.
 (a) IMPORT LICENSES- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary
 of the Treasury shall establish and implement a pilot program for the issuance
 and sale to United States companies at public auction of import licenses
 applicable to categories of textiles and categories of textile products.
 (b) IDENTIFICATION OF CATEGORIES SUBJECT TO LICENSES- The categories
 of textiles, and the categories of textile products, to which the
 import licensing program under this section applies shall be selected
 by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of
 Commerce. Such selection shall be made so that--
 (1) the number of categories of textiles so selected shall, in the aggregate,
 account for the volume of imports equal to no less than 20 percent of the
 value of textiles entered; and
 (2) the total number of categories of textile products so selected shall,
 in the aggregate, account for the volume of imports equal to no less than
 20 percent of the value of textile products entered.
 (c) Auctioning of Import Licenses-
 (1) Each import license to be issued and sold pursuant to this section
 shall be sold by the Secretary of the Treasury at a public auction held no
 earlier than fifteen days after the date on which notice of such auction
 is published in the Federal Register.
 (2) By no later than the date that is sixty days after the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe regulations under
 which auctions shall be conducted under paragraph (1). Such regulations
 shall provide for--
 (A) the auctioning of quotas, on a historical basis, among retailers,
 importers, and manufacturers of textiles and apparel;
 (B) the transfer of auctioned import licenses among importers; and
 (C) a means of ensuring that no person obtains undue market power in the
 markets of the United States through the use of auctioned import licenses.
 (3) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to prescribe, on an expedited
 basis, such regulations supplementing the regulations prescribed under
 paragraph (2) as are necessary to address factors involved in conducting
 the sale by auction of import licenses for any article that are unique to
 such article.
 (d) DEPOSIT OF REVENUES- Any revenues from the sale of import licenses
 under this section shall be paid into the general fund of the Treasury of
 the United States.
 (e) DURATION- The import licensing program under this section shall begin
 on January 1, 1991, and end at the close of December 31, 1991.
 (f) REPORT- Not later than March 31, 1992, the Secretary of the Treasury,
 in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall report to the Congress
 on the administration of the import licensing program under this section and
 the advantages and disadvantages of auctioning import licenses demonstrated
 by the program.
SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this Act--
 (1) The term `textiles and textile products' includes, but is not limited
 to, all articles covered by a category.
 (2) The term `nonrubber footwear' means nonrubber footwear articles classified
 under items 6401.92.30, 6401.99.80, 6402.11.00, 6402.19.10, 6402.30.30,
 6402.91.40, 6402.99.05, 6402.99.10, 6402.99.15, 6404.11.20, 6404.19.15,
 6404.19.25, 6404.19.30, 6404.20.20, 6404.20.40, 6403, 6405, 6406.10.05,
 6406.10.10, 6406.10.20, and 6406.10.45 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule
 of the United States (as in effect on January 1, 1990) and includes, but
 is not limited to, all articles covered by a footwear category.
 (3) The term `category' means each of the following:
 (A) each category identified by a three-digit number in the Department of
 Commerce publication entitled `Correlation: Textile and Apparel Categories
 with Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States', dated 1990, and in
 any amendments to such publication correcting clerical errors or omissions;
 (B) each subdivision of a category described in subparagraph (A) with respect
 to which the United States has (i) an agreement with any country on the date
 of enactment of this Act limiting exports of textiles and textile products
 to the United States that includes a specific limit on such subdivision,
 or (ii) taken unilateral action to limit producers from any country entered
 under such subdivision;
 (C) a category consisting of the manmade fiber products not covered by a
 category described in subparagraph (A) and classified under chapters 54,
 55, and 56 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States; and
 (D) a category consisting of the products not covered by a category
 described in subparagraph (A) and classified under items 6215.10.00.408
 and 6117.20.00.405 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.
The Secretary of Commerce shall determine, after consultation with the
United States Trade Representative and the United States International Trade
Commission, whether comparable subdivisions described in subparagraph (B) are
consistently defined; if the Secretary determines that such subdivisions are
not consistently defined, then the Secretary shall prescribe by regulation an
appropriate definition of the category covering such comparable subdivisions.
 (4) The term `nonrubber footwear category' means each of the following:
 (A) men's leather;
 (B) men's vinyl/plastic;
 (C) men's other;
 (D) women's leather;
 (E) women's vinyl/plastic;
 (F) women's other;
 (G) juvenile leather;
 (H) juvenile vinyl/plastic;
 (I) juvenile other;
 (J) athletic leather;
 (K) athletic vinyl/plastic;
 (L) leather work footwear;
 (M) vinyl/plastic work footwear;
 (N) miscellaneous leather footwear;
 (O) miscellaneous vinyl/plastic;
 (P) miscellaneous other;
 (Q) leather slippers;
 (R) vinyl/plastic slippers; and
 (S) other slippers.
 (5) The term `high priced nonrubber footwear' means nonrubber footwear with
 a customs value of $2.50, or more, per pair.
 (6) The term `country' means a foreign country, a foreign territory, an
 insular possession of the United States, or any territory, possession,
 colony, trusteeship, political entity, or foreign trade zone, whether
 affiliated with the United States or not, that is outside the customs
 territory of the United States.
 (7) The term `duty' includes the rate and form of any import duty, including
 but not limited to tariff-rate quotas.
 (8) The term `existing' means the nonpreferential rate of duty (however
 established, and even though temporarily suspended by Act of Congress or
 otherwise) set forth in the General subcolumn of rate of duty column 1
 in chapters 1 through 96 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
 States existing on the day before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (9) The term `entered' means entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for
 consumption in the customs territory of the United States.
SEC. 10. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), the provisions of
 this Act shall apply to textiles and textile products and nonrubber footwear
 entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on and after the date
 of enactment of this Act.
 (b) CALENDAR YEARS 1990 AND 1991- The Secretary of Commerce shall prescribe
 by regulation the aggregate quantity, if any, of textiles and textile
 products and of nonrubber footwear that may be entered under section 4(a)
 under each category and each nonrubber footwear category during the period
 beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on December 31,
 1990. Notwithstanding subsection (a), to the extent that the aggregate
 quantity of imports of textiles and textile products or of nonrubber footwear
 entered under a category or nonrubber footwear category after December 31,
 1989, and before the date of enactment of this Act exceeds the quantity
 permitted entry for such products under such category during calendar year
 1990 under section 4(a), then the limit that would otherwise apply under
 section 4(b), in the case of textiles or textile products, or under section
 4(a), in the case of nonrubber footwear, for such category for calendar year
 1991 shall be reduced by the amount of such excess quantity. If such excess
 quantity exceeds the limit that would otherwise apply under section 4(b),
 or section 4(a), as appropriate, for such category for calendar year 1991,
 then the limit for such category for calendar years after 1991 shall be
 reduced until such excess is accounted for.
SEC. 11. MEXICO-UNITED STATES FREE TRADE AREA.
 (a)(1) Since the Senate, on June 26, 1987, adopted legislation calling for
 the establishment of a North American Free Trade Area,
 (2) Since President Bush and President Salinas, on June 11, 1990, endorsed
 the proposal to establish a `comprehensive Free Trade Agreement' between
 the United States and Mexico and directed United States Trade Representative
 Carla A. Hills and Mexican Secretary of Commerce Jaime Serra Puche to begin
 consultations and preparatory work to that end,
 (3) Since Mexico is the third largest trading partner of the United States
 and the United States is the largest trading partner of Mexico,
 (4) Since bilateral trade between the United States and Mexico, topped
 $52,000,000,000 in 1989, with the United States exports more than doubling
 between 1986 and 1989 from $12,400,000,000 to $25,000,000,000,
 (5) Since a mere 10-percent annual increase in trade between the United
 States and Mexico throughout the 1990's would result in trade totaling more
 than $150,000,000,000 between our two countries in  the  first  year  of  the
 twenty-first  century,  and  trade  could undoubtedly grow at higher levels,
 (6) Since cooperation between the United States and Mexico on antinarcotics
 efforts has steadily improved since President Salinas de Gortari took office,
 (7) Since increased trade between our two countries will greatly assist
 Mexico in its economic development, and an economically prosperous and
 politically stable Mexico will greatly benefit the United States,
 (8) Since there has been peace among the three great nations of North
 America for nearly a century and a half, a longer era of peace than that
 enjoyed in any other region of the world.
 (b) It is the Sense of the Senate that--
 (1) President Bush and President Salinas are to be commended for beginning the
 process to achieve the goal of a comprehensive free trade agreement between
 the United States and Mexico and initiating the preliminary steps to that end,
 (2) Close cooperation with the Congress in the preparations for and
 negotiations of such an agreement will facilitate the successful establishment
 of the agreement; and that the United States Trade Representative should,
 throughout the negotiating process, consult closely with Members of Congress
 representing key constituencies who would be affected by such agreements, and
 (3) While consultations proceed for a free trade agreement between the
 United States and Mexico each country should consider interim steps to
 improve further trade relations between our two countries.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.