Calendar No. 384
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
H. R. 1426
[Report No. 102-251]
AN ACT
To provide for the recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of
North Carolina, and for other purposes.
November 26 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 23), 1991
Reported without amendment
HR 1426 RS
Calendar No. 384
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
 H. R. 1426
[Report No. 102-251]
To provide for the recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of
North Carolina, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 30 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 19), 1991
Received, read twice and referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs
November 26 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 23), 1991
Reported by Mr. INOUYE, without amendment
AN ACT
To provide for the recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of
North Carolina, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Lumbee Recognition Act'.
SEC. 2. PREAMBLE.
  The preamble to the Act of June 7, 1956 (70 Stat. 254), is amended--
  (1) by striking out `and' at the end of each of the first three clauses;
  (2) by striking out `: Now therefore,' at the end of the last clause and
  inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new clauses:
`Whereas the Lumbee Indians of Robeson and adjoining counties in North Carolina
are descendants of coastal North Carolina Indian tribes, principally Cheraw,
and have remained a distinct Indian community since the time of contact with
white settlers;
`Whereas the Lumbee Indians have been recognized by the State of North
Carolina as an Indian tribe since 1885;
`Whereas the Lumbee Indians have sought Federal recognition as an Indian
tribe since 1888; and
`Whereas the Lumbee Indians are entitled to Federal recognition of their
status as an Indian tribe and the benefits, privileges, and immunities that
accompany such status: Now, therefore,'.
SEC. 3. FEDERAL RECOGNITION.
  The Act of June 7, 1956 (70 Stat. 254), is amended--
  (1) by striking out the last sentence of the first section; and
  (2) by striking out section 2 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`FEDERAL RECOGNITION; ACKNOWLEDGMENT
  `SEC. 2. (a) Federal recognition is hereby extended to the Lumbee Tribe of
  Cheraw Indians of North Carolina. All laws and regulations of the United
  States of general application to Indians and Indian tribes shall apply to
  the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina and its members.
  `(b) Notwithstanding the first section of this Act, any group of Indians in
  Robeson or adjoining counties whose members are not enrolled in the Lumbee
  Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina, as determined under section 4(b),
  may petition under part 83 of title 25 of the Code of Federal Regulations
  for acknowledgment of tribal existence.
`SERVICES
  `SEC. 3. (a) The Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina and
  its members shall be eligible for all services and benefits provided to
  Indians because of their status as federally recognized Indians, except
  that members of the tribe shall not be entitled to such services until
  the appropriation of funds for these purposes. For the purposes of the
  delivery of such services, those members of the tribe residing in Robeson
  and adjoining counties, North Carolina, shall be deemed to be resident on
  or near an Indian reservation.
  `(b) Upon verification of a tribal roll under section 4 by the Secretary
  of the Interior, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of
  Health and Human Services shall develop, in consultation with the Lumbee
  Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina, a determination of needs and
  a budget required to provide services to which the members of the tribe
  are eligible. The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Health
  and Human Services shall each submit a written statement of such needs
  and budget with the first budget request submitted to the Congress after
  the fiscal year in which the tribal roll is verified.
  `(c)(1) The Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina is authorized to
  plan, conduct, consolidate, and administer programs, services, and functions
  authorized under the Act of April 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 596; 25 U.S.C. 452,
  et seq.), and the Act of November 2, 1921 (42 Stat. 208; 25 U.S.C. 13),
  popularly known as the Snyder Act, pursuant to an annual written funding
  agreement among the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina, the
  Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
  which shall specify--
  `(A) the services to be provided, the functions to be performed, and the
  procedures to be used to reallocate funds or modify budget allocations,
  within any fiscal year; and
  `(B) the responsibility of the Secretary of the Interior for, and the
  procedure to be used in, auditing the expenditures of the tribe.
  `(2) The authority provided under this subsection shall be in lieu of
  the authority provided under the Indian Self-Determination and Education
  Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450, et seq.).
  `(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as affecting, modifying,
  diminishing, or otherwise impairing the sovereign immunity from lawsuit
  enjoyed by the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina or
  authorizing or requiring the termination of any trust responsibility of
  the United States with respect to the tribe.
`CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP
  `SEC. 4. (a) The Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina shall
  organize for its common welfare and adopt a constitution and bylaws. Any
  constitution, bylaws, or amendments to the constitution or bylaws that
  are adopted by the tribe must be consistent with the terms of this Act and
  shall take effect only after such documents are filed with the Secretary
  of the Interior. The Secretary shall assist the tribe in the drafting of
  a constitution and bylaws, the conduct of an election with respect to such
  constitution, and the reorganization of the government of the tribe under
  any such constitution and bylaws.
  `(b)(1) Until the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina adopts
  a constitution and except as provided in paragraph (2), the membership
  of the tribe shall, subject to review by the Secretary, consist of every
  individual who is named in the tribal membership roll that is in effect
  on the date of enactment of this Act.
  `(2)(A) Before adopting a constitution, the roll of the tribe shall be open
  for a 180-day period to allow the enrollment of any individual previously
  enrolled in another Indian group or tribe in Robeson or adjoining counties,
  North Carolina, who demonstrates that--
  `(i) the individual is eligible for enrollment in the Lumbee Tribe of
  Cheraw Indians; and
  `(ii) the individual has abandoned membership in any other Indian group
  or tribe.
  `(B) The Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina shall advertise in
  newspapers of general distribution in Robeson and adjoining counties, North
  Carolina, the opening of the tribal roll for the purposes of subparagraph
  (A). The advertisement shall specify the enrollment criteria and the
  deadline for enrollment.
  `(3) The review of the tribal roll of the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians
  of North Carolina shall be limited to verification of compliance with
  the membership criteria of the tribe as stated in the Lumbee Petition for
  Federal Acknowledgment filed with the Secretary by the tribe on December
  17, 1987. The Secretary shall complete his review and verification of the
  tribal roll within the 12-month period beginning on the date on which the
  tribal roll is closed under paragraph (2).
`JURISDICTION
  `SEC. 5. (a)(1) The State of North Carolina shall exercise jurisdiction
  over--
  `(A) all criminal offenses that are committed on, and
  `(B) all civil actions that arise on,
lands located within the State of North Carolina that are owned by, or held
in trust by the United States for, the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of
North Carolina, any member of the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North
Carolina, or any dependent Indian community of the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw
Indians of North Carolina.
  `(2) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to accept on behalf of
  the United States, after consulting with the Attorney General of the United
  States, any transfer by the State of North Carolina to the United States of
  any portion of the jurisdiction of the State of North Carolina described in
  paragraph (1) pursuant to an agreement between the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw
  Indians and the State of North Carolina. Such transfer of jurisdiction may
  not take effect until two years after the effective date of such agreement.
  `(3) The provisions of this subsection shall not affect the application
  of section 109 of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1919).
  `(b) Section 5 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (Chapter 576; 25 U.S.C. 465),
  and the Act of April 11, 1970 (84 Stat. 120; 25 U.S.C. 488 et seq.), shall
  apply to the Lumbee Tribe of Cheraw Indians of North Carolina with respect
  to lands within the exterior boundaries of Robeson and adjoining counties,
  North Carolina.
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 6. (a) There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as may be
  necessary to carry out this Act.
  `(b) In the first fiscal year in which funds are appropriated under this Act,
  the tribe's proposals for expenditures of such funds shall be submitted to
  the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
  Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives 60 calendar
  days prior to any expenditure of such funds by the tribe.'.
Passed the House of Representatives September 26, 1991.
Attest:
DONNALD K. ANDERSON,
Clerk.