--H.R.2712--
H.R.2712
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To facilitate the adjustment or change of status of Chinese nationals in
the United
States by waiving the 2-year foreign residence requirement for `J'
nonimmigrants.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Emergency Chinese Immigration Relief Act
 of 1989'.
SEC. 2. STATUS OF CERTAIN NATIONALS OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
 (a) WAIVER OF FOREIGN RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT FOR `J' NONIMMIGRANTS- The
 2-year home country residence and physical presence period requirement under
 section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(e))
 is hereby waived in the case of any national of the People's Republic of
 China (in this Act referred to as `China') if--
 (1) the alien is present in the United States on the date of the enactment
 of this Act (or who would have been present in the United States but for
 a brief, casual, and innocent departure from the United States),
 (2) the alien would otherwise be subject to that 2-year home residence
 requirement because of having had the status of a nonimmigrant described
 in section 101(a)(15)(J) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(J)), and
 (3) not later than 4 years after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 the alien files a nonfrivolous application for adjustment or any change of
 status under section 245 or 248 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1255, 1258).
 (b) PRESUMPTION OF CONTINUOUS RESIDENCE FOR CERTAIN PRC NATIONALS- For
 purposes of any adjustment of status under section 245 of the Immigration
 and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225) or any change of status under section
 248 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1258) in the case of an alien who is a national of
 China and who, as of June 5, 1989, was present in the United States in the
 lawful status of a nonimmigrant (or who would have been present in the United
 States in that status but for a brief, casual, and innocent departure from
 the United States), such an alien shall be considered as having continued
 to maintain lawful status as such a nonimmigrant (and to have maintained
 continuously a lawful status) for the period described in subsection (d).
 (c) EMPLOYMENT AUTHORIZATION- Any national of China described in subsection
 (b) who, as of June 5, 1989, was present in the United States in the lawful
 status of a nonimmigrant described in subparagraph (F), (J), or (M) of
 section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (or who would
 have been present in the United States in that status but for a brief,
 casual, and innocent departure from the United States) shall be granted
 authorization to engage in employment in the United States and shall be
 provided with an `employment authorized' endorsement or other appropriate
 work permit during the period described in subsection (d).
 (d) DURATION OF STATUS- The period referred to in subsections (b), (c),
 and (e) is the period during which the Attorney General has in effect a
 deferral of enforced departure for nationals of China.
 (e) NOTIFICATION- In the case of any alien who is a national of China and
 who is eligible for deferral of enforced departure pursuant to a directive
 of the Attorney General during the period described in subsection (d) and
 whose authorized period of stay as a nonimmigrant has expired, the Attorney
 General shall, instead of initiating deportation proceedings against the alien
 (including the service of an order to show cause) during the period described
 in subsection (d), issue to the alien a notice of expiration of nonimmigrant
 status. Such notice shall be nonadversarial in nature and shall contain an
 explanation of the options available to such aliens under the directive of
 the Attorney General and under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
SEC. 3. STANDARDS TO BE APPLIED IN ADJUDICATING APPLICATIONS FOR ASYLUM,
WITHHOLDING OF DEPORTATION, AND REFUGEE STATUS FROM CHINESE FLEEING COERCIVE
POPULATION CONTROL POLICIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- With respect to the adjudication of all applications for
 asylum, withholding of deportation, or refugee status from nationals of
 China filed before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 careful consideration shall be given to such an applicant who expresses a
 fear of persecution upon return to China related to China's `one couple,
 one child' family planning policy. If the applicant establishes that such
 applicant has refused to abort or be sterilized, such applicant shall be
 considered to have established a well-founded fear of persecution, if returned
 to China, on the basis of political opinion consistent with paragraph (42)(A)
 of section 101(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)).
 (b) REGULATIONS- Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Attorney General shall promulgate regulations to implement
 subsection (a). Such regulations shall provide that an applicant described
 in subsection (a) shall be considered to have established a well-founded
 fear of persecution based on political opinion if returned to China if the
 applicant establishes that--
 (1) the applicant (or applicant's spouse) has refused to abort a pregnancy
 or resisted sterilization in violation of China's family planning policy
 directives, and
 (2)(A) in the case of an applicant for asylum or refugee status, there
 is good reason to believe that the applicant will be required to abort
 the pregnancy or to be sterilized or will otherwise be persecuted if the
 applicant were returned to China, or (B) in the case of an applicant for
 withholding of deportation, there is a likelihood that the applicant will
 be required to abort the pregnancy or to be sterilized or will otherwise
 be persecuted if the applicant were returned to China.
Such regulations shall be effective immediately on an interim basis pending
the promulgation of final regulations and shall be applied throughout the
Department of Justice.
 (c) CONSIDERATION OF OTHER FACTORS- All other factors (such as overt
 political activities, membership in an ethnic or religious minority, and
 family background and history) which may contribute to a determination that
 an applicant described in subsection (a) is eligible for asylum, withholding
 of deportation, or refugee status are to be given additional weight.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subject to subsection (b), the provisions of this
 section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.