--H.R.5318--
H.R.5318
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
Regarding the extension of most-favored-nation treatment to the products of the
People's Republic of China, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `United States-China Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND POLICY.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) On June 4, 1989, thousands of Chinese citizens courageously demonstrated
  that they were prepared to risk their lives and futures in pursuit of
  democratic freedom and respect for human rights.
  (2) Despite this massive outpouring of desire for self-determination and
  observance of fundamental principles of human rights, the Government of
  the People's Republic of China, a member of the United Nations Security
  Council obligated to respect and uphold the United Nations charter and
  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, continues to flagrantly violate
  internationally recognized standards of human rights, including--
  (A) torture and cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment;
  (B) arbitrary arrest, unacknowledged detention without charges and trial,
  and jailing of persons solely for the nonviolent expression of their
  political views; and
  (C) use of prison labor to produce cheap products for export to countries,
  including the United States, in violation of international labor treaties
  and United States law.
  (3) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to deny
  Chinese citizens who have supported the prodemocracy movement and others,
  the right of free emigration despite having given a pledge to the Secretary
  of State to do so during his visit last year to China.
  (4) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to use
  army and police forces to intimidate and repress the Tibetan people who
  nonviolently seek political and religious freedom.
  (5) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to engage
  in unfair trade practices against the United States by raising tariffs,
  employing taxes as a surcharge on tariffs, using discriminatory customs
  rates, imposing import quotas and other quantitative restrictions, barring
  the importation of some items, using licensing and testing requirements to
  limit imports, and falsifying country of origin documentation to transship
  textiles and other items to the United States through Hong Kong and third
  countries.
  (6) Although the Government of the People's Republic of China has pledged to
  adhere to the guidelines and parameters of the Missile Technology Control
  Regime, there are continuing reports of Chinese transfers of missile
  technology controlled by such regime to the Middle East, Africa, and Asia.
  (7) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to unjustly
  restrict and imprison religious leaders who do not adhere to the dogma
  and control of state-sponsored religious organizations.
  (8) It is the policy and practice of the Government of the People's Republic
  of China's Communist Party to control all trade unions and suppress and
  harass members of the independent labor union movement.
  (9) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to harass and
  restrict the activities of accredited journalists and restrict broadcasts
  by the Voice of America.
  (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (1) with respect to the actions of the People's Republic of China in the
  areas of human rights, weapons proliferation, and unfair trade practices
  the President should take such actions as necessary to achieve the purposes
  of this Act, including but not limited to--
  (A) directing the United States Trade Representative to investigate and
  take necessary and appropriate action pursuant to section 301 of the Trade
  Act of 1974 with respect to the continuing unfair trade practices of the
  People's Republic of China which are determined to be discriminatory,
  and which unreasonably restrict United States commerce; and
  (B) encouraging members of the Missile Technology Control Regime and other
  countries as appropriate, to develop a common policy concerning the People's
  Republic of China's transfer of missile technology to other countries;
  (2) the sanctions being applied against the People's Republic of China
  on the date of the enactment of this Act should be continued and strictly
  enforced; and
  (3) the President should direct the Secretary of Commerce to consult with
  leaders of American businesses who have significant trade or investments
  in the People's Republic of China, to encourage them to adopt a code of
  conduct which--
  (A) follows basic internationally recognized human rights principles,
  (B) seeks to ensure that the employment of Chinese citizens is not
  discriminatory in terms of sex, ethnic origin, or political belief,
  (C) does not knowingly use prison labor,
  (D) recognizes workers' rights to organize and bargain collectively, and
  (E) discourages mandatory political indoctrination on business sites.
SEC. 3. MINIMUM STANDARDS WHICH THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
CHINA MUST MEET TO CONTINUE TO RECEIVE NONDISCRIMINATORY MOST-FAVORED-NATION
TREATMENT.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President may not recommend
  the continuation of a waiver for a 12-month period beginning July 3, 1993,
  under section 402(d) of the Trade Act of 1974 for the People's Republic of
  China unless the President reports in the document required to be submitted
  by such section that the government of that country--
  (1) has taken appropriate actions to begin adhering to the provisions
  of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in China and Tibet, and is
  fulfilling the commitment made to the Secretary of State in November 1991
  to allow the unrestricted emigration of those citizens who desire to leave
  China for reasons of political or religious persecution, to join family
  members abroad, or for other valid reasons;
  (2) has provided an acceptable accounting of Chinese citizens detained,
  accused, or sentenced as a result of the nonviolent expression of
  their political beliefs and, by the date of the enactment of this Act,
  has released citizens so detained, accused, or sentenced, to credibly
  demonstrate a good faith effort to release all those imprisoned as a result
  of the events which occurred during and after the violent repression in
  Tiananmen Square on June 3, 1989;
  (3) has taken action to prevent export of products to the United States
  manufactured wholly or in part by convict, forced, or indentured labor
  and has agreed to allow United States Custom officials to visit places
  suspected of producing such goods for export;
  (4) is cooperating with the United States in efforts to account for United
  States military or other government personnel taken prisoner, missing in
  action or otherwise unaccounted for as a result of their service in--
  (A) the Korean conflict; or
  (B) the Vietnam conflict; and
  (5) has made overall significant progress in--
  (A) ceasing religious persecution in the People's Republic of China and
  Tibet, and releasing leaders and members of religious groups detained,
  imprisoned, or under house arrest for expressing their religious beliefs;
  (B) ceasing unfair trade practices against American businesses, and
  providing them fair access to Chinese markets, including lowering tariffs,
  removing nontariff barriers, and increasing the purchase of United States
  goods and services; and
  (C) adhering to the guidelines and parameters of the Missile Technology
  Control Regime and the controls adopted by the Nuclear Suppliers Group
  and the Australian Group on Chemical and Biological Arms.
SEC. 4. REPORT BY THE PRESIDENT.
  If the President recommends in 1993 that the waiver referred to in section
  3 be continued for the People's Republic of China, the President shall
  state in the document required to be submitted to the Congress by section
  402(d) of the Trade Act of 1974, the extent to which the Government of the
  People's Republic of China has complied with the provisions of section 3,
  during the period covered by the document.
SEC. 5. NONDISCRIMINATORY TREATMENT FOR PRODUCTS FROM NONSTATE-OWNED
ENTERPRISES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the
  occurrence of any event described in subsection (b), nondiscriminatory
  treatment shall apply to any good that is produced or manufactured by
  a business, corporation, partnership, qualified joint venture, or other
  person that is not a state-owned enterprise of the People's Republic of
  China. Any such good that is marketed or otherwise exported by a state-owned
  enterprise of the People's Republic of China shall be ineligible for such
  nondiscriminatory treatment. Such nondiscriminatory treatment shall be in
  effect for the period of time the waiver referred to in section 3 would
  have been effective had it taken effect.
  (b) EVENTS- Nondiscriminatory treatment as described in subsection (a)
  shall apply if--
  (1) the President fails to request the waiver referred to in section 3 and
  reports to the Congress that such failure was a result of his inability to
  report that the People's Republic of China has met the standards described
  in that section; or
  (2) the President requests the waiver referred to in section 3, but a
  disapproval resolution described in subsection (c)(1) is enacted into law.
  (c) DISAPPROVAL RESOLUTION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of this section, the term `resolution' means
  only a joint resolution of the two Houses of Congress, the matter after
  the resolving clause of which is as follows: `That the Congress does
  not approve the extension of the authority contained in section 402(c)
  of the Trade Act of 1974 recommended by the President to the Congress on
  XXXXXXXXXXX with respect to the People's Republic of China because the
  Congress does not agree that the People's Republic of China has met the
  standards described in section 3 of the United States-China Act of 1992.',
  with the blank space being filled with the appropriate date.
  (2) APPLICABLE RULES- The provisions of sections 153 (other than paragraphs
  (3) and (4) of subsection (b)) and 402(d)(2) (as modified by this paragraph)
  of the Trade Act of 1974 shall apply to a resolution described in paragraph
  (1).
  (d) DETERMINATION OF DUTY STATUS OF ENTERPRISES-
  (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Treasury shall determine
  which businesses, corporations, partnerships, companies, or other persons
  are state-owned enterprises of the People's Republic of China for purposes
  of this Act and compile and maintain a list of such businesses, corporations,
  partnerships, companies, and persons.
  (2) For purposes of making the determination required by paragraph (1),
  the following definitions apply:
  (A)(i) The term `state-owned enterprise of the People's Republic of China'
  means a business, corporation, partnership, company, or person affiliated
  with or owned, controlled, or subsidized by the government of the People's
  Republic of China and whose means of production, products, and revenues
  are owned or controlled by a central or provincial government authority. A
  business, corporation, partnership, company, or person shall be considered
  to be state-owned if--
  (I) its assets are primarily owned by a central or provincial government
  authority;
  (II) a substantial proportion of its profits are required to be submitted
  to a central or provincial government authority;
  (III) its production, purchases of inputs, and sales of output, in whole
  or in part, are subject to state, sectoral, or regional plans; or
  (IV) a license issued by a government authority classifies the enterprise
  as state-owned.
  (ii) Any business, corporation, partnership, company, or person that--
  (I) is a qualified foreign joint venture or is defined by such authority
  as a collective or private enterprise; or
  (II) is wholly owned by a foreign business, corporation, company, or person,
shall not be considered to be state-owned.
  (B) The term `foreign joint venture' means any business, corporation,
  partnership, company, or person--
  (i) which is registered and licensed in the agency or department of
  the government of the People's Republic of China concerned with foreign
  economic relations and trade as an equity, cooperative, or contractual
  joint venture; and
  (ii) in which the foreign investor partner and the business, corporation,
  partnership, company, or person--
  (I) combine their assets;
  (II) share profits and losses; and
  (III) jointly manage the venture.
  (C) The term `qualified foreign joint venture' means a joint venture--
  (i) in which the foreign investor partner holds or controls at least 33
  percent of the investment;
  (ii) in which the foreign investor partner is not a business, corporation,
  partnership, company, or other person of a country the government of which
  the Secretary of State has determined under section 6(j) of the Export
  Administration Act of 1979 to have repeatedly provided support for acts
  of international terrorism; and
  (iii) which does not use state-owned enterprises of the People's Republic
  of China to export its goods or services.
  (e) PETITION FOR CHANGE IN DUTY STATUS- Any person who believes that a
  particular business, corporation, partnership, or company should be included
  on or excluded from the list compiled by the Secretary under subsection
  (d) may request that the Secretary review the status of the business,
  corporation, partnership, or company.
SEC. 6. SANCTIONS BY OTHER COUNTRIES.
  If the President decides not to seek a continuation of a waiver in 1993
  under section 402(d) of the Trade Act of 1974 for the People's Republic
  of China, he shall, during the 30-day period beginning on the date that
  the President would have recommended to the Congress that such waiver
  be continued, undertake efforts to ensure that members of the General
  Agreement on Tariffs and Trade take similar action with respect to the
  People's Republic of China.
SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this Act:
  (1) DETAINED AND IMPRISONED- The terms `detained' and `imprisoned' include,
  but are not limited to, incarceration in prisons, jails, labor reform camps,
  labor reeducation camps, and local police detention centers.
  (2) CONVICT, FORCED, OR INDENTURED LABOR- The term `convict', `forced',
  or `indentured' labor has the same meaning given to such term by section
  307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
  (3) VIOLATIONS OF INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STANDARDS OF HUMAN RIGHTS- The
  term `violations of internationally recognized standards of human rights'
  includes but is not limited to torture, cruel, inhuman, or degrading
  treatment or punishment, prolonged detention without charges and trial,
  causing the disappearance of persons by the abduction and clandestine
  detention of those persons, secret judicial proceedings, and other flagrant
  denial of the right to life, liberty, or the security of any person.
  (4) MISSILE TECHNOLOGY CONTROL REGIME- The term `Missile Technology Control
  Regime' means the agreement, as amended, between the United States, the
  United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and
  Japan, announced on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant
  transfers based on an annex of missile equipment and technology.
  (5) SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS- (A) The term `significant progress' in section
  3, means the implementation of measures that will meaningfully reduce,
  or lead to the end of the practices identified in that section.
  (B) With respect to section 3(4)(C), progress may not be determined to be
  `significant progress' if, after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
  President determines that the People's Republic of China has transferred--
  (i) ballistic missiles or missile launchers for the M-9 or M-11 weapons
  systems to Syria, Pakistan, or Iran; or
  (ii) material, equipment, or technology that would contribute significantly
  to the manufacture of a nuclear explosive device to another country, if
  the President determines that the material, equipment, or technology was
  to be used by such country in the manufacture of such weapon.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.