[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5121 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                         July 25, 2002.
      Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
5121) entitled ``An Act making appropriations for the Legislative 
Branch for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2003, and for other 
purposes.'', do pass with the following

                              AMENDMENTS:

(1)Page 2, after line 5, insert:

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $20,000; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $20,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $20,000; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $10,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $10,000; Chairmen 
of the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $5,000 for each 
Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, 
$5,000 for each Chairman; in all, $110,000.

    representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $118,391,000, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the following 
limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,949,000.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $518,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $3,094,000.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $2,042,000.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $11,266,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,305,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,610,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $648,000.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,362,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,724,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $315,000.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $17,079,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $44,661,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,410,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $30,075,000.

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $4,581,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,176,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-ninth 
Congress section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate Resolution 281, 
agreed to March 11, 1980, $109,450,000.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $520,000.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$7,077,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2007.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $117,433,000, of which $9,570,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2005, and of which $13,574,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $18,513,000, of which up to $500,000 shall 
be made available for a pilot program for mailings of postal patron 
postcards by Senators for the purpose of providing notice of a town 
meeting by a Senator in a county (or equivalent unit of local 
government) with a population of less than 250,000 and at which the 
Senator will personally attend: Provided, That any amount allocated to 
a Senator for such mailing shall not exceed 50 percent of the cost of 
the mailing and the remaining cost shall be paid by the Senator from 
other funds available to the Senator: Provided further, That not later 
than October 31, 2003, the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
Senate shall submit a report to the Committee on Rules and 
Administration and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate on the 
results of the program.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$295,000,000.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Section 1. (a) Section 111 of title 3, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``$10,000'' and inserting ``$20,000''.
    (b) The matter under the subheading ``expense allowances of the 
vice president, president pro tempore, majority and minority leaders 
and majority and minority whips'' under the heading ``LEGISLATIVE 
BRANCH'' under chapter VI of title I of the Second Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1978 (Public Law 95-355; 92 Stat. 532) is amended 
in the second sentence (2 U.S.C. 31a-1) (relating to the Majority and 
Minority Leaders of the Senate), by striking ``$10,000'' and inserting 
``$20,000''.
    (c) The matter under the subheading ``expense allowances of the 
vice president, the president pro tempore, majority and minority 
leaders, and majority and minority whips'' under the heading 
``LEGISLATIVE BRANCH'' under chapter IX of title I of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1983 (2 U.S.C. 31a-1; Public Law 98-63; 97 Stat. 
333) (relating to the Majority and Minority Whips) is amended by 
striking ``not exceed $5,000'' and inserting ``not exceed $10,000''.
    (d) The matter under the subheading ``Expense Allowances of the 
Vice President, the President pro tempore, Majority and Minority 
Leaders, the Majority and Minority Whips, and the Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Conference Committees'' under the heading 
``LEGISLATIVE BRANCH'' under chapter IX of title I of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 1985 (2 U.S.C. 31a-3; Public Law 99-88; 99 Stat. 
348) (relating to the Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Conference 
Committees) is amended by striking ``not exceed $3,000'' and inserting 
``not exceed $5,000''.
    (e) Section 5 of title I of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2001, as enacted into law by section 1(a) of Public Law 106-554 (2 
U.S.C. 31a-4; 114 Stat. 2763A-97) (relating to the Chairmen of the 
Majority and Minority Policy Committees) is amended by striking 
``$3,000'' and inserting ``$5,000''.
    (f) The amendments made by this section shall apply to fiscal year 
2003 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 2. (a) The matter under the subheading ``stationery (revolving 
fund)'' under the heading ``Contingent Expenses of the Senate'' under 
the heading ``LEGISLATIVE BRANCH'' under chapter VII of title I of the 
Second Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1975 (2 U.S.C. 46a; Public Law 
94-32; 89 Stat. 182) is amended by striking ``$4,500'' and inserting 
``$8,000''.
    (b) The amendment made by this section shall apply to fiscal year 
2003 and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 3. Effective on and after October 1, 2002, each of the dollar 
amounts contained in the table under section 105(d)(1)(A) of the 
Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1968 (2 U.S.C. 61-1(d)(1)(A)) 
shall be deemed to be the dollar amounts in that table, as adjusted by 
law and in effect on September 30, 2002, increased by an additional 
$50,000 each.
    Sec. 4. (a) The Majority Policy Committee, Minority Policy 
Committee, Conference of the Majority, and Conference of the Minority 
of the Senate are authorized, in the discretion of each committee or 
conference, with the prior consent of the Government department or 
agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate to use, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, the services 
of personnel of any such department or agency.
    (b) This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal 
year thereafter.
    Sec. 5. Senate Page Pins. (a) In General.--The Committee on Rules 
and Administration is authorized to provide for the awarding of service 
pins to Senate pages who work in the Senate chamber. Such pins shall be 
lapel pins which are of such material and design, and contain such 
characters, symbols, or other matter, as the Committee determines 
appropriate.
    (b) Awarding of Pins.--The Secretary of the Senate shall, in 
accordance with rules of the Committee, purchase and award service pins 
to Senate pages who are entitled to them.
    (c) Funding.--There shall be available each fiscal year for payment 
of expenses incurred under this section $1,000 from the appropriations 
account ``Miscellaneous Items'' within the contingent fund of the 
Senate.
    (d) Application.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 and 
each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 6. Public Safety Exception to Inscriptions Requirement on 
Mobile Offices. (a) In General.--Section 3(f)(3) under the heading 
``Administrative Provisions'' in the appropriation for the Senate in 
the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1975 (2 U.S.C. 59(f)(3)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following flush sentence:
``The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may prescribe 
regulations to waive or modify the requirement under subparagraph (B) 
if such waiver or modification is necessary to provide for the public 
safety of a Senator and the Senator's staff and constituents.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of enactment of this Act and apply to the fiscal 
year that includes such date and each fiscal year thereafter.

(2)Page 10, strike out all after line 21 over to and including line 24 
on page 34 and insert:

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,658,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$7,323,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $725 per month each to four medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $725 per month to two assistants and $580 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,414,000 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $3,000,000 of which $300,000 
shall remain available until expended, to be disbursed by the Chief 
Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

           Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $3,035,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ 
more than 58 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide 
Board is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than 2 
additional individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more 
than 10 additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the 
Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the second session of the One Hundred Seventh Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, and Government contributions for health, retirement, 
Social Security, and other applicable employee benefits, $176,636,000, 
to be disbursed by the Capitol Police.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, 
telephone service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and 
liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
$33,167,000, to be disbursed by the Capitol Police, of which $1,400,000 
shall remain available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, the cost of training for the Capitol Police 
at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center for fiscal year 2003 
shall be paid by the Secretary of the Treasury from funds available to 
the Department of the Treasury.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2003 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    Sec. 102. Capitol Police Contract Authority. (a) In General.--The 
United States Capitol Police may--
            (1) enter into contracts for the acquisition of severable 
        services for a period that begins in 1 fiscal year and ends in 
        the next fiscal year to the same extent as the head of an 
        executive agency under the authority of section 303L of the 
        Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 
        U.S.C. 253l); and
            (2) enter into multiyear contracts for the acquisitions of 
        property and nonaudit-related services to the same extent as 
        executive agencies under the authority of section 304B of the 
        Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 
        U.S.C. 254c).
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 103. Disposal of Surplus Property. (a) In General.--Within the 
limits of available appropriations, the Capitol Police may dispose of 
surplus or obsolete property of the Capitol Police by interagency 
transfer, donation, sale, trade-in, or other appropriate method.
    (b) Amounts Received.--Any amounts received by the Capitol Police 
from the disposition of property under subsection (a) shall be credited 
to the account established for the general expenses of the Capitol 
Police, and shall be available to carry out the purposes of such 
account during the fiscal year in which the amounts are received and 
the following fiscal year.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 104. Compensation Amounts. (a) In General.--Any amounts 
received by the Capitol Police for compensation for damage to, or loss 
of, property of the Capitol Police (including any insurance payments or 
payment made by an officer or civilian employee of the Capitol Police) 
shall be credited to the account established for the general expenses 
of the Capitol Police, and shall be available to carry out the purposes 
of such account during the fiscal year in which the amounts are 
received and the following fiscal year.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 105. Additional Compensation. Section 909 of chapter 9 of 
division B of the Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on 
the United States Act, 2002 (40 U.S.C. 207b-2; Public Law 107-117; 115 
Stat. 2320) is amended by striking subsection (e) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(e) Additional Compensation for Specialty Assignments and 
Proficiencies.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Payment.--The Chief of the Capitol Police, 
                after consultation with the Capitol Police Board, may 
                in the sole discretion of the Chief, pay additional 
                compensation to United States Capitol Police employees 
                for specialty assignments, proficiencies, and any other 
                category of assignment required to carry out the 
                Capitol Police mission.
                    ``(B) Determination not appealable or reviewable.--
                Any determination under paragraph (1) shall not be 
                appealable or reviewable in any manner.
            ``(2) Manner of payment.--The additional compensation 
        authorized by this subsection shall be paid to the employee in 
        a manner determined by the Chief, except when the employee 
        ceases to be assigned to the specialized assignment or ceases 
        to maintain the requisite proficiency. The loss of such 
        additional compensation shall not constitute an adverse action 
        for any purpose.''.
    Sec. 106. Applicable Pay Rate Upon Appointment. (a) In General.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the rate of basic pay 
payable to an individual upon appointment to a position with the 
Capitol Police shall be--
            (1) at a rate within the minimum and maximum pay rates 
        applicable to the position; and
            (2) determined by the Chief of the Capitol Police or the 
        designee of the Chief.
This subsection shall not apply to an individual who is an employee of 
the Capitol Police immediately before the appointment.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 107. Application of Premium Pay Limits on Annualized Basis. 
(a) In General.--Any limits on the amount of premium pay which may be 
earned by officers and members of the Capitol Police during emergencies 
(as determined by the Capitol Police Board) shall be applied by the 
Capitol Police Board on an annual basis and not on a pay period basis. 
Such a determination under this subsection is not reviewable or 
appealable in any manner.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to 
hours of duty occurring on or after September 11, 2001.
    Sec. 108. Transfer of Library of Congress Police to the United 
States Capitol Police. (a) Transfer of Library of Congress Police to 
the United States Capitol Police.--
            (1) Transfer of personnel and functions.--There are 
        transferred to the United States Capitol Police--
                    (A) each Library of Congress Police employee;
                    (B) any functions performed under the first section 
                of the Act of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167) and section 
                9 of that Act (2 U.S.C. 167h) (as in effect immediately 
                before the effective date of this section); and
                    (C) any civilian employee of the Library of 
                Congress who performs security support functions.
            (2) Effect on personnel.--
                    (A) The transfer of personnel under paragraph (1) 
                shall not cause any such employee to be separated or 
                receive a reduction in pay for 5 years after the 
                transfer of such employee.
                    (B) Any annual or sick leave to the credit of an 
                individual transferred under paragraph (1) shall be 
                transferred to the credit of that individual as an 
                employee of the United States Capitol Police.
                    (C) For those Library of Congress Police employees 
                transferred under paragraph (1)(A), any period of 
                service performed by a Library of Congress Police 
                employee shall be deemed to be service performed as a 
                member of the United States Capitol Police for purposes 
                of chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code.
                    (D) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
                upon the date of enactment of this section and until 
                completion of the transfer under paragraph (1), 
                vacancies in Library of Congress police employee 
                positions, if filled, shall be filled with members of 
                the United States Capitol Police under a memorandum of 
                understanding to be entered into by the Chief of the 
                Capitol Police and the Librarian of Congress.
            (3) Effective date of transfer of personnel and 
        functions.--Library of Congress employees transferred to the 
        United States Capitol Police under paragraph (1)(A) or (C), and 
        Library of Congress functions transferred under paragraph 
        (1)(B) shall be transferred to the United States Capitol Police 
        as specified in the implementation plan under subsection 
        (b)(1), but no later than 3 years after the date of enactment 
        of this section.
    (b) Transition.--
            (1) Implementation plan.--
                    (A) Plan.--No later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this section, the Chief of the Capitol 
                Police shall prepare and submit to the Committees on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives and of 
                the Senate, the Committee on House Administration of 
                the House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules 
                and Administration of the Senate, the Capitol Police 
                Board, and the Librarian of Congress, a plan--
                            (i) describing the policies and procedures, 
                        and actions the Chief of the Capitol Police 
                        will take in implementing the transfer 
                        provisions under this section;
                            (ii) establishing dates by which Library of 
                        Congress personnel and functions authorized to 
                        be transferred under subsection (a)(1) shall be 
                        transferred to the United States Capitol 
                        Police, with all such transfers completed not 
                        later than 3 years after the date of enactment 
                        of this section;
                            (iii) in consultation with the Librarian of 
                        Congress, providing for the performance of law 
                        enforcement and protection functions relating 
                        to the buildings and grounds of the Library of 
                        Congress, including collections security, 
                        within the overall security responsibilities of 
                        the United States Capitol Police;
                            (iv) recommending legislative changes 
                        needed to implement the transfers under 
                        subsection (a)(1), including--
                                    (I) identifying options for 
                                addressing how to apply United States 
                                Capitol Police retirement provisions to 
                                such transferred personnel; and
                                    (II) identifying options related to 
                                providing voluntary separation 
                                incentives to transferred personnel;
                            (v) detailing the mechanisms to be used by 
                        the Chief of the Capitol Police for ensuring 
                        that Library of Congress employees transferred 
                        to the United States Capitol Police under 
                        subsection (a)(1) are not adversely affected by 
                        the transfer with respect to pay;
                            (vi) addressing (I) how United States 
                        Capitol Police training and qualification 
                        requirements will be applied to Library of 
                        Congress employees transferred under subsection 
                        (a)(1), and (II) the overall training needs of 
                        the merged police force; and
                            (vii) providing an analysis of the cost 
                        implications of implementing the plan.
            (2) Implementation report.--No later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this section, and annually thereafter 
        until the transfer is fully implemented, the Chief of the 
        Capitol Police shall prepare and submit a report to the 
        Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        and of the Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the 
        House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate, the Capitol Police Board, and the 
        Librarian of Congress, on the Chief of the Capitol Police's 
        progress in implementing the plan required in paragraph 
        (b)(1)(A) of this section, including any adjustments to cost 
        estimates or legislative changes needed to implement the 
        provisions of this section.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Act of August 4, 1950'' means the Act 
        entitled ``An Act relating to the policing of the buildings and 
        grounds of the Library of Congress'', approved August 4, 1950 
        (2 U.S.C. 167 et seq.); and
            (2) the term ``Library of Congress Police employee''--
                    (A) means an employee of the Library of Congress 
                designated as police under the first section of the Act 
                of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167) (as in effect 
                immediately before the effective date of this section); 
                and
                    (B) does not include any civilian employee 
                performing security support functions.
    (d) Effective Date.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this 
section.
    Sec. 109. Clarification of Authority of Capitol Police to Police 
Botanic Garden. (a) In General.--
            (1) Treatment of grounds as part of capitol grounds.--The 
        first section of the Act entitled ``An Act to define the United 
        States Capitol Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for 
        other purposes'', approved July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 193a) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``The United States 
                Capitol Grounds''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b)(1) Except as provided under paragraph (2), the United States 
Capitol Grounds shall include--
            ``(A) the National Garden of the United States Botanic 
        Garden;
            ``(B) all grounds contiguous to the Administrative Building 
        of the United States Botanic Garden, including Bartholdi Park; 
        and
            ``(C) all grounds bounded by the curblines of First Street, 
        Southwest on the east; Washington Avenue, Southwest to its 
        intersection with Independence Avenue, and Independence Avenue 
        from such intersection to its intersection with Third Street, 
        Southwest on the south; Third Street, Southwest on the west; 
        and Maryland Avenue, Southwest on the north.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding subsection (a), jurisdiction and control over 
the grounds described in paragraph (1) shall be retained by the Joint 
Committee on the Library, and the Joint Committee on the Library shall 
continue to be solely responsible for the maintenance and improvement 
of the grounds described in such paragraph.
    ``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the 
Architect of the Capitol under section 307E of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1989 (40 U.S.C. 216c).''.
            (2) Treatment of buildings as part of capitol buildings.--
        Section 16(a)(1) of the Act entitled ``An Act to define the 
        United States Capitol Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and 
        for other purposes'', approved July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 193m) 
        is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) The term `Capitol Buildings' means--
                    ``(A) the United States Capitol, the Senate and 
                House Office Buildings, garages, and the Capitol Power 
                Plant;
                    ``(B)(i) the Conservatory of the United States 
                Botanic Garden;
                    ``(ii) the Administrative Building of the United 
                States Botanic Garden; and
                    ``(iii) all other buildings bounded by the 
                curblines of First Street, Southwest on the east; 
                Washington Avenue, Southwest to its intersection with 
                Independence Avenue, and Independence Avenue from such 
                intersection to its intersection with Third Street, 
                Southwest on the south; Third Street, Southwest on the 
                west; and Maryland Avenue, Southwest on the north; and
                    ``(C) all underground passageways connecting any 
                such structures and all real property underlying and 
                enclosed by any such structure.''.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year 
        thereafter.
    (b) Increase in Positions.--Effective in fiscal year 2003 and each 
fiscal year thereafter, the total number of full-time equivalent 
positions of the United States Capitol Police (including positions for 
members and civilian employees of the Capitol Police) shall be 
increased by 29 sworn members to carry out the provisions of this 
section.
    Sec. 109A. Provisions Relating To Hiring and Compensation of 
Capitol Hill Police. (a) Recruitment of Individuals Without Regard to 
Age.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief of the Capitol Police shall 
        carry out any activities and programs to recruit individuals to 
        serve as members of the Capitol Police without regard to the 
        age of the individuals.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed to affect any provision of law of any rule or 
        regulation providing for the mandatory separation of members of 
        the Capitol Police on the basis of age, or any provision of law 
        or any rule or regulation regarding the calculation of 
        retirement or other benefits for members of the Capitol Police.
    (b) Recruitment and Relocation Bonuses, Retention Bonuses, and 
Tuition Allowances.--
            (1) Recruitment and relocation bonuses.--Section 909(a) of 
        chapter 9 of the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002 (40 U.S.C. 
        207b-2; Public Law 107-117; 115 Stat. 2320) (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Act'') is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Board 
                determines that the Capitol Police would be likely, in 
                the absence of such a bonus, to encounter difficulty in 
                filling the position'' and inserting ``the Chief, in 
                the Chief's sole discretion, determines that such a 
                bonus will assist the Capitol Police in recruitment 
                efforts''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Determinations not appealable or reviewable.--Any 
        determination of the Chief under this subsection shall not be 
        appealable or reviewable in any manner.''
            (2) Retention allowances.--Section 909(b) of the Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B); 
                        and
                            (ii) by striking ``if--'' and inserting 
                        ``if the Chief, in the Chief's sole discretion, 
                        determines that such a bonus will assist the 
                        Capitol Police in retention efforts.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the reduction 
                or the elimination of a retention allowance may not be 
                appealed'' and inserting ``any determination of the 
                Chief under this subsection, or the reduction or 
                elimination of a retention allowance, shall not be 
                appealable or reviewable in any manner''.
            (3) Tuition allowances.--Section 909 of the Act is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as 
                subsections (g) and (h), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (e) the 
                following:
    ``(f) Tuition Allowances.--The Chief of the Capitol Police may pay 
tuition allowances for payment or reimbursement of education expenses 
in the same manner and to the same extent as retention allowances under 
subsection (b).''
    (c) Authorizing Premium Pay To Ensure Availability of Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief of the Capitol Police may 
        provide premium pay to officers and members of the Capitol 
        Police to ensure the availability of such officers and members 
        for unscheduled duty in excess of a 40-hour work week, based on 
        the needs of the Capitol Police, in the same manner and subject 
        to the same terms and conditions as premium pay provided to 
        criminal investigators under section 5545a of title 5, United 
        States Code (subject to paragraph (2)).
            (2) Cap on total amount paid.--Premium pay for an officer 
        or member under this subsection may not be paid in a calendar 
        year to the extent that, when added to the total basic pay paid 
        or payable to such officer or member for service performed in 
        the year, such pay would cause the total to exceed the annual 
        rate of basic pay payable for level II of the Executive 
        Schedule, as of the end of such year.
    (d) Effective Date and Regulations.--
            (1) Effective date.--The provisions of, and the amendments 
        made by, this section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 and each 
        fiscal year thereafter.
            (2) Regulations.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding section 909(g) of 
                chapter 9 of the Emergency Supplemental Act, 2002 (40 
                U.S.C. 207b-2), the Chief of the Capitol Police shall, 
                not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act, promulgate any regulations required to 
                carry out the provisions of, and the amendments made 
                by, this section and sections 105, 106, and 107.
                    (B) Review and approval.--
                            (i) Review.--The Chief shall submit 
                        regulations prescribed under subparagraph (A) 
                        to the Capitol Police Board for review.
                            (ii) Approval.--The regulations prescribed 
                        under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the 
                        approval of the Committee on Rules and 
                        Administration of the Senate and the Committee 
                        on House Administration of the House of 
                        Representatives.
    Sec. 109B. Transfer of Disbursing Function. (a) In General.--
            (1) Disbursing officer.--The Chief of the Capitol Police 
        shall be the disbursing officer for the Capitol Police. Any 
        reference in any law or resolution before the date of enactment 
        of this section to funds paid or disbursed by the Chief 
        Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives and the 
        Secretary of the Senate relating to the pay and allowances of 
        Capitol Police officers, members, and employees shall be deemed 
        to refer to the Chief of the Capitol Police.
            (2) Transfer.--Any statutory function, duty, or authority 
        of the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate as disbursing 
        officers for the Capitol Police shall transfer to the Chief as 
        the single disbursing officer for the Capitol Police.
            (3) Continuity of function.--Until such time as the Chief 
        notifies the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate that systems 
        are in place for discharging the disbursing functions under 
        this subsection, the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        shall continue to serve as the disbursing authority on behalf 
        of the Capitol Police.
    (b) Treasury Accounts.--
            (1) Salaries.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
        United States a separate account for the Capitol Police, into 
        which shall be deposited appropriations received by the Chief 
        of the Capitol Police and available for the salaries of the 
        Capitol Police.
            (2) General expenses.--There is established in the Treasury 
        of the United States a separate account for the Capitol Police, 
        into which shall be deposited appropriations received by the 
        Chief of the Capitol Police and available for the general 
        expenses of the Capitol Police.
    (c) Transfer of Funds, Assets, Accounts, Records, and Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief Administrative Officer of the 
        House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate are 
        authorized and directed to transfer to the Chief of the Capitol 
        Police all funds, assets, accounts, and copies of original 
        records of the Capitol Police that are in the possession or 
        under the control of the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
        House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate in 
        order that all such items may be available for the unified 
        operation of the Capitol Police. Any funds so transferred shall 
        be deposited in the Treasury accounts established under 
        subsection (b) and be available to the Chief for the same 
        purposes as, and in like manner and subject to the same 
        conditions as, the funds prior to the transfer.
            (2) Existing transfer authority.--Any transfer authority 
        existing before the date of enactment of this Act granted to 
        the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate for salaries, 
        expenses, and operations of the Capitol Police shall be 
        transferred to the Chief.
    (d) Unexpended Balances.--Notwithstanding the provisions of any 
other law, the unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal 
year 2003 and succeeding fiscal years that are subject to disbursement 
by the Chief of the Capitol Police shall be withdrawn as of September 
30 of the second fiscal year following the period or year for which 
provided. Unpaid obligations chargeable to any of the balances so 
withdrawn or appropriations for prior years shall be liquidated from 
any appropriations for the same general purpose, which, at the time of 
payment, are available for disbursement.
    (e) Hiring Authority; Eligibility for Same Benefits as House 
Employees.--
            (1) Authority.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Chief of the Capitol Police, in carrying out the duties 
                of office, is authorized to appoint, hire, discharge, 
                and set the terms, conditions, and privileges of 
                employment of officers, members, and employees of the 
                Capitol Police, subject to and in accordance with 
                applicable laws and regulations.
                    (B) Review or approval.--In carrying out the 
                authority provided under this paragraph, the Chief of 
                the Capitol Police shall be subject to the same 
                statutory requirements for review or approval by 
                committees of Congress that were applicable to the 
                Capitol Police Board on the day before the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Benefits.--Officers, members, and employees of the 
        Capitol Police who are appointed by the Chief under the 
        authority of this subsection shall be subject to the same type 
        of benefits (including the payment of death gratuities, the 
        withholding of debt, and health, retirement, Social Security, 
        and other applicable employee benefits) as are provided to 
        employees of the House of Representatives, and any such 
        individuals serving as officers, members, and employees of the 
        Capitol Police as of the date of enactment of this Act shall be 
        subject to the same rules governing rights, protections, pay, 
        and benefits in effect immediately before such date until such 
        rules are changed under applicable laws or regulations.
    (f) Worker's Compensation.--
            (1) Account.--There shall be established a separate account 
        in the Capitol Police for purposes of making payments for 
        officers, members, and employees of the Capitol Police under 
        section 8147 of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Payments without fiscal year limitation.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, payments may be 
        made from the account established under paragraph (1) of this 
        subsection without regard to the fiscal year for which the 
        obligation to make such payments is incurred.
    (g) Effect on Existing Law.--
            (1) In general.--The provisions of this section shall not 
        be construed to reduce the pay or benefits of any officer, 
        member, or employee of the Capitol Police whose pay was 
        disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate before the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Superseding provisions.--All provisions of law 
        inconsistent with this section are hereby superseded to the 
        extent of the inconsistency.
    (h) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Section 1821 of the Revised 
Statutes of the United States (40 U.S.C. 206) is amended by striking 
the third sentence.
    (2) Section 1822 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (40 
U.S.C. 207) is repealed.
    (3) Section 111 of title I of the Act entitled ``Making 
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
1977, and for other purposes'', approved May 4, 1977 (2 U.S.C. 64-3), 
is amended--
            (A) by striking ``Secretary of the Senate'' and inserting 
        ``Chief of the Capitol Police''; and
            (B) by striking ``United States Senate'' and inserting 
        ``Capitol Police''.
    (i) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect October 1, 2002, or the date of enactment of 
this Act, whichever is later, and shall apply to the fiscal year in 
which such date occurs and each fiscal year thereafter.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $2,224,000, of which $277,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That the Executive 
Director of the Office of Compliance may have the authority, within the 
limits of available appropriations, to dispose of surplus or obsolete 
personal property by interagency transfer, donation, or discarding.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $3,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $32,390,000, of which not more than $100,000 is to remain 
available until September 30, 2004 for the acquisition and partial 
support for implementation of a Central Financial Management System: 
Provided, That no part of such amount may be used for the purchase or 
hire of a passenger motor vehicle.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 110. The Director of the Congressional Budget Office may, by 
regulation, make applicable such provisions of section 3396 of title 5, 
United States Code, as the Director determines necessary to establish a 
program providing opportunities for employees of the Office to engage 
in details or other temporary assignments in other agencies, study or 
uncompensated work experience which will contribute to the employees' 
development and effectiveness.
    Sec. 111. The Director may enter into agreements or contracts 
without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5).

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                         general administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle; and not to exceed $30,000 for attendance, when 
specifically authorized by the Architect of the Capitol, at meetings or 
conventions in connection with subjects related to work under the 
Architect of the Capitol except for attendance in connection with the 
Capitol Visitor Center which shall be paid from project funds, 
$108,243,000, of which $50,450,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2007: Provided, That up to $50,000,000 shall be for 
necessary expenses for planning, design, and implementation of an 
alternate computing facility for the House of Representatives, the 
Senate and other Legislative Branch entities: Provided further, That 
the Architect of the Capitol may not obligate or expend any of the 
amount in the preceding proviso except in accordance with an obligation 
plan submitted to and approved by the House and Senate Committees on 
Appropriations.

                           capitol buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $28,729,000, of which $15,700,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

                            capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $7,155,000, of which $580,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2007.

                        senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $60,075,000, of which $16,804,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2007.

(3)Page 35, strike out all after line 13 over to and including line 16 
on page 56 and insert:

                          capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $143,647,000, of which $103,100,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2007: Provided, That not more than 
$4,400,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2003.

                        capitol police buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of United States Capitol Police 
buildings, $1,500,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 112. Deputy Architect of the Capitol/Chief Operating Officer. 
(a) Establishment of Deputy Architect of the Capitol.--There shall be a 
Deputy Architect of the Capitol who shall serve as the Chief Operating 
Officer of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol. The Deputy 
Architect of the Capitol shall be appointed by the Architect of the 
Capitol and shall report directly to the Architect of the Capitol and 
shall be subject to the authority of the Architect of the Capitol. The 
Architect of the Capitol shall appoint the Deputy Architect of the 
Capitol not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
The appointment shall be made without regard to political affiliation 
or activity. The Architect of the Capitol shall consult with the 
Comptroller General or his designee before making the appointment.
    (b) Qualifications.--The Deputy Architect of the Capitol shall have 
strong leadership skills and demonstrated ability in management, 
including in such areas as strategic planning, performance management, 
worker safety, customer satisfaction, and service quality.
    (c) Responsibilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Deputy Architect of the Capitol shall 
        be responsible to the Architect of the Capitol for the overall 
        direction, operation, and management of the Office of the 
        Architect of the Capitol, including implementing the Office's 
        goals and mission; providing overall organization management to 
        improve the Office's performance; and assisting the Architect 
        of the Capitol in promoting reform, and measuring results.
            (2) Responsibilities.--The Deputy Architect's 
        responsibilities include:
                    (A) developing, implementing, annually updating, 
                and maintaining a long-term strategic plan covering a 
                period of not less than 5 years for the Office of the 
                Architect of the Capitol, including the establishment 
                of--
                            (i) a comprehensive mission statement 
                        covering the major functions and operations of 
                        the Office;
                            (ii) general goals and objectives, 
                        including outcome-related goals and objectives, 
                        for the major functions and operations of the 
                        Office;
                    (B) developing and implementing an annual 
                performance plan that includes annual performance goals 
                covering each of the general goals and objectives in 
                the strategic plan and including to the extent 
                practicable quantifiable performance measures for the 
                annual goals;
                    (C) proposing organizational changes and new 
                positions needed to carry out the Office of the 
                Architect of the Capitol's mission and strategic and 
                annual performance goals; and
                    (D) reviewing and directing the operational 
                functions of the Office of the Architect of the 
                Capitol, including--
                            (i) facilities and project management;
                            (ii) administration and modernization of 
                        systems employed by the Office;
                            (iii) productivity and cost-saving 
                        measures;
                            (iv) strategic human capital management, 
                        including performance management and training 
                        and development initiatives; and
                            (v) financial management, including the 
                        integration of operational functions and 
                        financial management to ensure that budgets, 
                        financial information, and systems support the 
                        strategic and annual plans developed under this 
                        subsection.
    (d) Additional Responsibilities.--The Architect of the Capitol may 
delegate to the Deputy Architect such additional duties as the 
Architect determines are necessary or appropriate.
    (e) Action Plan.--
            (1) In general.--No later than 180 days after the 
        appointment, the Deputy Architect shall prepare and submit to 
        the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate and the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate, an action plan describing the 
        policies, procedures, and actions the Deputy Architect will 
        implement and timeframes for carrying out the responsibilities 
        under this section.
            (2) Action plan.--The action plan shall be--
                    (A) approved and signed by both the Architect of 
                the Capitol and the Deputy Architect; and
                    (B) developed concurrently and consistent with the 
                development of a strategic plan.
            (3) Additional senior positions.--Notwithstanding the 
        provisions in section 129(c) of the Legislative Branch 
        Appropriations Act, 2002, Public Law 107-68, the Architect of 
        the Capitol may, upon submission of the action plan, fix the 
        rate of basic pay for not more than 3 additional positions at a 
        rate not to exceed the highest total rate of pay for the Senior 
        Executive Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 
        5, United States Code, for the locality involved, in order to 
        implement the action plan.
    (f) Evaluation.--Effective 180 days from the appointment of the 
Deputy Architect of the Capitol, the General Accounting Office shall 
evaluate at least annually the implementation of the action plan and 
provide the results of the evaluation to the Architect of the Capitol, 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate.
    (g) Removal.--The Deputy Architect of the Capitol may be removed by 
the Architect of the Capitol for misconduct or failure to meet 
performance goals set forth in the performance agreement in subsection 
(i). Upon the removal of the Deputy Architect of the Capitol, the 
Architect of the Capitol shall immediately notify in writing the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate, stating the specific reasons for the removal.
    (h) Compensation.--The Deputy Architect of the Capitol shall be 
paid at an annual rate of pay to be determined by the Architect but not 
to exceed $1,000 less than the annual rate of pay for the Architect of 
the Capitol.
    (i) Annual Performance Agreement.--The Architect of the Capitol and 
the Deputy Architect of the Capitol, shall enter into an annual 
performance agreement that sets forth measurable individual goals 
linked to the organizational goals in the Office of the Architect of 
the Capitol's annual performance plan for the Deputy Architect of the 
Capitol in key operational areas. The agreement shall be subject to 
review and renegotiation on an annual basis. A copy of the agreement 
shall be provided to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate, the Committee on House Administration of 
the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate.
    (j) Annual Performance Report.--The Deputy Architect of the Capitol 
shall prepare and transmit to the Architect of the Capitol and the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate, the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
Senate an annual performance report. This report shall contain an 
evaluation of the extent to which the Office of the Architect of the 
Capitol met the goals and objectives identified in the annual 
performance plan in subsection (c)(2) for the preceding year and an 
explanation of the results achieved during the preceding year relative 
to the established goals. This report shall also include the evaluation 
rating of the performance of the Deputy Architect of the Capitol under 
subsection (h), including the amounts of bonus compensation awarded to 
the Deputy Architect of the Capitol, and such additional information as 
may be prescribed by the Architect of the Capitol.
    (k) Termination of Role.--As of October 1, 2004, the role of the 
Comptroller General and the General Accounting Office, as established 
by this section, will cease.
    Sec. 113. Deputy Architect to Act in Case of Absence, Disability, 
or Vacancy. The proviso under the subheading ``salaries'' under the 
heading ``Office of the Architect of the Capitol'' under the heading 
``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1971 (40 U.S.C. 164a) is amended by striking ``Assistant 
Architect'' and inserting ``Deputy Architect''.
    Sec. 114. Delegation of Authority by Architect of the Capitol. The 
matter under the subheading ``Office of the Architect of the Capitol'' 
under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL'' of the Legislative 
Appropriation Act, 1956 (40 U.S.C. 163b) is amended by striking 
``Architect of the Capitol is authorized'' through ``proper'' and 
inserting ``Architect of the Capitol may delegate to the assistants of 
the Architect such authority of the Architect as the Architect may 
determine proper, except those authorities, duties, and 
responsibilities specifically assigned to the Deputy Architect of the 
Capitol by the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003''.
    Sec. 115. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
compensation of the Assistant Architect who is incumbent in that 
position when the position of Assistant Architect is abolished shall 
not be reduced so long as the former Assistant Architect is employed at 
the Office of the Architect of the Capitol. Whenever the Architect of 
the Capitol receives a pay adjustment after the date of enactment of 
this section, the compensation of such former Assistant Architect shall 
be adjusted by the same percentage as the compensation of the Architect 
of the Capitol. The authority granted in this section shall be in 
addition to the authority the Architect of the Capitol has in section 
129(c)(1)(A) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2002, as 
amended by this Act, to fix the rate of basic pay for not more than 15 
positions at a rate not to exceed the highest total rate of pay for the 
Senior Executive Service under subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 
5, United States Code, for the locality involved.
    Sec. 116. Contract Authority. (a) Monetary Limitation.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 3709 of the Revised 
Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5) shall apply with respect to purchases and 
contracts for the Architect of the Capitol as if the reference to 
``$25,000'' in clause (i) of the first sentence of that section were a 
reference to ``$100,000''.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply to fiscal year 2003 
and each fiscal year thereafter.
    Sec. 117. Senate Staff Health and Fitness Facility. Section 4 of 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 121f) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Staff'' after 
        ``Senate'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``Staff'' after 
        ``Senate'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by inserting ``Staff'' after ``costs 
        of the Senate'';
            (4) in subsection (d), by inserting ``Staff'' after 
        ``Senate''; and
            (5) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
    ``(e) The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate shall 
promulgate regulations pertaining to the operation and use of the 
Senate Staff Health and Fitness Facility.''.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $86,952,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used 
to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General 
Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication 
has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States 
Code); printing and binding of Government publications authorized by 
law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, 
and distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $90,143,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code: Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 2003''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $6,083,000, of which $120,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2007.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $350,491,000, of which 
not more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 2003, and shall remain available 
until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 
480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2003 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the 
Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from 
collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than the 
$6,850,000: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$10,886,000 is to remain available until expended for acquisition of 
books, periodicals, newspapers, and all other materials including 
subscriptions for bibliographic services for the Library, including 
$40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, when specifically 
approved by the Librarian, of special and unique materials for 
additions to the collections: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $911,000 shall remain available until expended for 
the acquisition and partial support for implementation of an Integrated 
Library System (ILS): Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $8,600,000 shall remain available until expended for the 
purpose of teaching educators how to incorporate the Library's digital 
collections into school curricula and shall be transferred to the 
educational consortium formed to conduct the ``Joining Hands Across 
America: Local Community Initiative'' project as approved by the 
Library: Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, $500,000 
shall remain available until expended, shall be transferred to the 
Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission for carrying out the purposes 
of Public Law 106-173, of which amount $10,000 may be used for official 
representation and reception expenses of the Abraham Lincoln 
Bicentennial Commission: Provided further, That of the total amount 
appropriated, $4,250,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2007 for the acquisition and partial support for implementation of a 
Central Financial Management System: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $789,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2004 for the Lewis and Clark Exhibition and an additional 
$200,000 shall remain available until expended, shall be transferred to 
Southern Illinois University for the purpose of developing a permanent 
commemoration of the Lewis and Clark Expedition: Provided further, 
That, of the total amount appropriated, $500,000 shall remain available 
until expended and shall be equally divided and transferred to the 
Alexandria Museum of Art and the New Orleans Museum of Art for 
activities relating to the Louisiana Purchase Bicentennial Celebration.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $44,876,000, of 
which not more than $23,321,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2003 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $6,191,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2003 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 802(h), and 1005 of such title: Provided further, That the 
total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by 
which collections are less than $29,512,000: Provided further, That not 
more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is available for the 
maintenance of an ``International Copyright Institute'' in the 
Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the purpose of training 
nationals of developing countries in intellectual property laws and 
policies: Provided further, That not more than $4,250 may be expended, 
on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute and for copyright delegations, 
visitors, and seminars.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,963,000, of which 
$14,697,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That, of 
the total amount appropriated, $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended to reimburse the National Federation of the Blind for costs 
incurred in the operation of its ``NEWSLINE'' program.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation 
and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 202. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the certification 
of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 203. (a) For fiscal year 2003, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $109,929,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) For fiscal year 2003, the Librarian of Congress may temporarily 
transfer funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``LIBRARY OF 
CONGRESS--Salaries and Expenses'' to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK 
Program and the Federal Research Program established under section 103 
of the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 
(Public Law 106-481; 2 U.S.C. 182c): Provided, That the total amount of 
such transfers may not exceed $1,900,000: Provided further, That the 
appropriate revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any 
amounts transferred to it before the period of availability of the 
Library appropriation expires.
    Sec. 204. National Digital Information Infrastructure and 
Preservation Program. Chapter 9 of division A of the Miscellaneous 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (as enacted by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 
106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A-194) is amended under the subheading 
``Salaries and Expenses'' under the heading ``LIBRARY OF CONGRESS'' by 
striking ``March 31, 2003'' and inserting ``March 31, 2005''.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$38,121,000, of which $18,614,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2007 and $5,500,000 shall remain available until 
expended.
    Sec. 205. Allocation of Responsibility for Library Buildings and 
Grounds. (a) In General.--The first section of the Act of June 29, 1922 
(2 U.S.C. 141) is amended to read as follows:

``SECTION 1. ALLOCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR LIBRARY BUILDINGS AND 
              GROUNDS.

    ``(a) Architect of the Capitol.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Architect of the Capitol shall have 
        charge of all work at the Library of Congress buildings and 
        grounds (as defined in section 11 of the Act entitled `An Act 
        relating to the policing of the buildings of the Library of 
        Congress' approved August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167(j)) that 
        affects--
                    ``(A) the structural integrity of the buildings;
                    ``(B) buildings systems, including mechanical, 
                electrical, plumbing, and elevators;
                    ``(C) the architectural features of the buildings;
                    ``(D) compliance with building and fire codes, 
                laws, and regulations with respect to the specific 
                responsibilities set for under this paragraph;
                    ``(E) the care and maintenance of Library grounds; 
                and
                    ``(F) purchase of all equipment necessary to 
                fulfill the responsibilities set forth under this 
                paragraph.
            ``(2) Employees.--The employees required for the 
        performance of the duties under paragraph (1) shall be 
        appointed by the Architect of the Capitol.
    ``(b) Librarian of Congress.--The Librarian of Congress shall have 
charge of all work (other than work under subsection (a)) at the 
Library of Congress buildings and grounds.
    ``(c) Transfer of Funds.--The Architect of the Capitol and the 
Librarian of Congress may enter into agreements with each other to 
perform work under this section, and, subject to the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate and the Joint Committee on the Library, may transfer between 
themselves appropriations or other available funds to pay the costs 
therefor.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to fiscal year 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $32,302,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $175,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 2001 and 
2002 to depository and other designated libraries: Provided further, 
That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts 
for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to 
the Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the 
purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: 
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the 
hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided 
further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to 
carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving 
fund and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of 
Superintendent of Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together 
may not be available for the full-time equivalent employment of more 
than 3,222 workyears (or such other number of workyears as the Public 
Printer may request, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives): 
Provided further, That activities financed through the revolving fund 
may provide information in any format.

                       GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 
31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
sections 901(5), 901(6), and 901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6), and 4081(8)); and under regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of 
living quarters in foreign countries, $454,534,000: Provided, That not 
more than $2,210,000 of payments received under section 782 of title 
31, United States Code, shall be available for use in fiscal year 2003: 
Provided further, That not more than $790,000 of reimbursements 
received under section 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be 
available for use in fiscal year 2003: Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including 
necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants: Provided 
further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the American Consortium on International 
Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, including 
any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the International 
Institute of Administrative Sciences.

    PAYMENT TO THE FOREIGN LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Foreign Leadership Development Center Trust 
Fund for financing activities of the Center for Foreign Development, 
$13,000,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 206. Center for Foreign Leadership Development. (a) In 
General.--Section 313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
2001 (Public Law 106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A-120) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``Russian'' and 
        inserting ``Foreign'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Russian'' and 
                inserting ``Foreign''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(D), by striking ``United 
                States and Russian relations'' and inserting 
                ``relations between the United States and eligible 
                foreign states'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Russia'' and 
                inserting ``eligible foreign states'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Russian 
                nationals'' and inserting ``nationals of eligible 
                foreign states'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``3,000'' and 
                inserting ``3,500''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (3)(C)(i), by striking ``Russia'' 
                and inserting ``an eligible foreign state'';
            (4) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``Russian'' and 
        inserting ``Foreign''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Eligible Foreign State Defined.--In this section, the term 
`eligible foreign state' means--
            ``(1) any country specified in section 3 of the FREEDOM 
        Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5801); and
            ``(2) Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2003 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation 
in this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, 
That the provisions in this Act for the various items of official 
expenses of Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House 
of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the 
House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect 
thereto.
    Sec. 304. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds 
made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.
    Sec. 308. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 is amended in the first 
sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``2002'' and inserting ``2003''.
    Sec. 309. The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets and sidewalks, in the irregular 
shaped grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, 
Second Street SW on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the 
beginning of the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.
    Sec. 310. United States-China Economic and Security Review 
Commission. (a) Appropriations.--There are appropriated, out of any 
funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,800,000, to remain 
available until expended, to the United States-China Economic and 
Security Review Commission.
    (b) Name Change.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1238 of the Floyd D. Spence 
        National Defense Authorization Act of 2001 (22 U.S.C. 7002) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the section heading by inserting ``economic 
                and'' before ``security'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'';
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by inserting 
                                ``Economic and'' before ''Security''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (H), by 
                                inserting ``Economic and'' before 
                                ``Security''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'' each place 
                        it appears; and
                    (D) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                inserting ``Economic and'' before 
                                ``Security''; and
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                inserting ``Economic and'' before 
                                ``Security'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (4), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security''; and
                            (v) in paragraph (6), by inserting 
                        ``Economic and'' before ``Security'' each place 
                        it appears.
            (2) References.--Any reference in any Federal law, 
        Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, 
        or any document of or relating to the United States-China 
        Security Review Commission shall be deemed to refer to the 
        United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission.
    (c) Membership and Terms.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1238(b)(3) of the Floyd D. Spencer 
        National Defense Authorization Act of 2001 (22 U.S.C. 7002) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``12 members'' and inserting ``8 members''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (F) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(F) each appointing authority referred to under 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D) of this paragraph shall--
                            ``(i) appoint 2 members to the Commission;
                            ``(ii) make the 2 appointments with respect 
                        to the 108th Congress on a staggered term 
                        basis, such that--
                                    ``(I) 1 appointment shall be for a 
                                term expiring on September 1, 2003; and
                                    ``(II) 1 appointment shall be for a 
                                term expiring on September 1, 2004;
                            ``(iii) make all appointments with respect 
                        to the 109th Congress, and each subsequent 
                        Congress, on an approximate 2-year term basis 
                        to expire on September 1, of the applicable 
                        year; and
                            ``(iv) make appointments not later than 30 
                        days after the date on which each new Congress 
                        convenes;''.
            (2) Existing terms.--The terms of each member of the United 
        States-China Economic and Security Review Commission serving on 
        the date preceding the date of enactment of this section shall 
        terminate on the later of--
                    (A) September 1, 2002; or
                    (B) the date of enactment of this section.
            (3) Effective date.--This subsection shall take effect on 
        the later of--
                    (A) September 1, 2002; or
                    (B) the date of enactment of this section.
    Sec. 311. John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and 
Development. There are appropriated, out of any funds in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, $300,000, to remain available until 
expended, to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and 
Development.
    Sec. 312. Title II of the Congressional Award Act. There are 
appropriated, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, $500,000, to remain available until expended, to carry 
out title II of the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 811 et seq.).

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
107th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5121

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENTS