Union Calendar No. 144
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
H. R. 3371
[Report No. 102-242, Parts I and II]
A BILL
To control and prevent crime.
October 9, 1991
Committees on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs, Education and Labor,
Energy and Commerce, Merchant Marine and Fisheries, and Public Works and
Transportation discharged; committed to the Committee of the Whole House on
the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
HR 3371 RH2
Union Calendar No. 144
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
 H. R. 3371
[Report No. 102-242, Parts I and II]
To control and prevent crime.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
September 23, 1991
Mr. BROOKS (for himself and Mr. SCHUMER) introduced the following bill;
which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary
October 7, 1991
Additional sponsors: Mr. MAZZOLI, Mr. HUGHES, Mr. SYNAR, Mr. FEIGHAN,
Mr. BERMAN, Mr. BRYANT, Mr. HOAGLAND, and Mr. LEVINE of California
October 7, 1991
Reported with amendment and referred to the Committees on Banking, Finance and
Urban Affairs, Education and Labor, Energy and Commerce, Merchant Marine and
Fisheries, Public Works and Transportation, and Ways and Means for a period
ending not later than October 9, 1991 for consideration of such provisions
of the bill and amendment as fall within the jurisdiction of those committees
pursuant to clause 1, rule X, respectively
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
October 9, 1991
Reported from the Committee on Ways and Means, with amendments
[Omit the part in boldface brackets and insert the part printed in boldface
roman]
October 9, 1991
Committees on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs, Education and Labor,
Energy and Commerce, Merchant Marine and Fisheries, and Public Works and
Transportation discharged; committed to the Committee of the Whole House on
the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
[For text of introduced bill see copy of bill as introduced on September
23, 1991]
A BILL
To control and prevent crime.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Omnibus Crime Control Act
  of 1991'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The following is the table of contents for this Act:
TITLE I--COMMUNITY POLICING; COP ON THE BEAT
TITLE II--DRUG TREATMENT IN FEDERAL PRISONS
TITLE III--SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT IN STATE PRISONS
TITLE IV--SAFE SCHOOLS
TITLE V--VICTIMS OF CRIME
Subtitle A--Crime Victims Fund
Subtitle B--Restitution
Subtitle C--HIV Testing
TITLE VI--CERTAINTY OF PUNISHMENT FOR YOUNG OFFENDERS
TITLE VII--DRUG TESTING OF ARRESTED INDIVIDUALS
TITLE VIII--DRUG EMERGENCY AREAS ACT OF 1991
TITLE IX--COERCED CONFESSIONS
TITLE X--DNA IDENTIFICATION
TITLE XI--HABEAS CORPUS
TITLE XII--PROVISIONS RELATING TO POLICE OFFICERS
Subtitle A--Police Accountability
Subtitle B--Retired Public Safety Officer Death Benefit
Subtitle C--Study on Police Officers' Rights
Subtitle D--Law Enforcement Scholarships
Subtitle E--Law Enforcement Family Support
TITLE XIII--FRAUD
TITLE XIV--PROTECTION OF YOUTH
Subtitle A--Crimes Against Children
Subtitle B--Parental Kidnapping
Subtitle C--Sexual Abuse Amendments
Subtitle D--Reporting of Crimes Against Children
TITLE XV--MISCELLANEOUS DRUG CONTROL
TITLE XVI--FAIRNESS IN DEATH SENTENCING ACT OF 1991
TITLE  XVII--MISCELLANEOUS CRIME CONTROL
Subtitle A--General
Subtitle B--Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention
Subtitle C--Terrorism: Civil Remedy
Subtitle D--Commission on Crime and Violence
TITLE XVIII--MISCELLANEOUS FUNDING PROVISIONS
Subtitle A--General
Subtitle B--Midnight Basketball
TITLE XIX--MISCELLANEOUS CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND CORRECTIONS
Subtitle A--Revocation of Probation and Supervised Release
Subtitle B--List of Veniremen
Subtitle C--Immunity
Subtitle D--Clarification of 18 U.S.C. 5032's Requirement That Any Prior Record
of a Juvenile Be Produced Before the Commencement of Juvenile Proceedings
Subtitle E--Petty Offenses
Subtitle F--Optional Venue for Espionage and Related Offenses
Subtitle G--General
TITLE XX--FIREARMS AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
Subtitle A--Firearms and Related Amendments
Subtitle B--Assault Weapons
Subtitle C--Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Devices
TITLE XXI--SPORTS GAMBLING
TITLE XXII--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
TITLE XXIII--DEATH PENALTY PROCEDURES
TITLE XXIV--DEATH PENALTY
TITLE I--COMMUNITY POLICING; COP ON THE BEAT
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as `The Community Policing; Cop on the Beat Act
  of 1991'.
SEC. 102. COMMUNITY POLICING; COP ON THE BEAT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part P as part Q;
  (2) by redesignating section 1601 as section 1701; and
  (3) by inserting after part O the following:
`PART P--COMMUNITY POLICING; COP ON THE BEAT GRANTS
`SEC. 1601. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  `(a) GRANT PROJECTS- The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance may
  make grants to units of general local government and to community groups
  to establish or expand cooperative efforts between police and a community
  for the purposes of increasing police presence in the community, including--
  `(1) developing innovative neighborhood-oriented policing programs;
  `(2) providing new technologies to reduce the amount of time officers
  spend processing cases instead of patrolling the community;
  `(3) purchasing equipment to improve communications between officers and the
  community and to improve the collection, analysis, and use of information
  about crime-related community problems;
  `(4) developing policies that reorient police emphasis from reacting to
  crime to preventing crime;
  `(5) creating decentralized police substations throughout the community to
  encourage interaction and cooperation between the public and law enforcement
  personnel on a local level;
  `(6) providing training and problem solving for community crime problems;
  `(7) providing training in cultural differences for law enforcement
  officials;
  `(8) developing community-based crime prevention programs, such as safety
  programs for senior citizens, community anticrime groups, and other
  anticrime awareness programs;
  `(9) developing crime prevention programs in communities which have
  experienced a recent increase in gang-related violence; and
  `(10) developing projects following the model under subsection (b).
  `(b) MODEL PROJECT- The Director shall develop a written model that informs
  community members regarding--
  `(1) how to identify the existence of a drug or gang house;
  `(2) what civil remedies, such as public nuisance violations and civil
  suits in small claims court, are available; and
  `(3) what mediation techniques are available between community members
  and individuals who have established a drug or gang house in such community.
`SEC. 1602. APPLICATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To be eligible to receive a grant under this part,
  a chief executive of a unit of local government, a duly authorized
  representative of a combination of local governments within a geographic
  region, or a community group shall submit an application to the Director
  in such form and containing such information as the Director may reasonably
  require.
  `(2) In such application, one office, or agency (public, private, or
  nonprofit) shall be designated as responsible for the coordination,
  implementation, administration, accounting, and evaluation of services
  described in the application.
  `(b) GENERAL CONTENTS- Each application under subsection (a) shall include--
  `(1) a request for funds available under this part for the purposes
  described in section 1601;
  `(2) a description of the areas and populations to be served by the
  grant; and
  `(3) assurances that Federal funds received under this part shall be used
  to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be
  available for activities funded under this part.
  `(c) COMPREHENSIVE PLAN- Each application shall include a comprehensive
  plan which contains--
  `(1) a description of the crime problems within the areas targeted for
  assistance;
  `(2) a description of the projects to be developed;
  `(3) a description of the resources available in the community to implement
  the plan together with a description of the gaps in the plan that cannot
  be filled with existing resources;
  `(4) an explanation of how the requested grant shall be used to fill
  those gaps;
  `(5) a description of the system the applicant shall establish to prevent
  and reduce crime problems; and
  `(6) an evaluation component, including performance standards and
  quantifiable goals the applicant shall use to determine project progress,
  and the data the applicant shall collect to measure progress toward meeting
  project goals.
`SEC. 1603. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS; LIMITATIONS ON GRANTS.
  `(a) ALLOCATION- The Director shall allocate not less than 75 percent
  of the funds available under this part to units of local government or
  combinations of such units and not more than 20 percent of the funds
  available under this part to community groups.
  `(b) ADMINISTRATIVE COST LIMITATION- The Director shall use not more
  than 5 percent of the funds available under this part for the purposes of
  administration, technical assistance, and evaluation.
  `(c) RENEWAL OF GRANTS- A grant under this part may be renewed for up to
  2 additional years after the first fiscal year during which the recipient
  receives its initial grant, subject to the availability of funds, if the
  Director determines that the funds made available to the recipient during the
  previous year were used in a manner required under the approved application
  and if the recipient can demonstrate significant progress toward achieving
  the goals of the plan required under section 1602(c).
  `(d) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of a grant made under this part may
  not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the
  application submitted under section 1602 for the fiscal year for which
  the projects receive assistance under this part.
`SEC. 1604. AWARD OF GRANTS.
  `(a) SELECTION OF RECIPIENTS- The Director shall consider the following
  factors in awarding grants to units of local government or combinations
  of such units under this part:
  `(1) NEED AND ABILITY- Demonstrated need and evidence of the ability to
  provide the services described in the plan required under section 1602(c).
  `(2) COMMUNITY-WIDE RESPONSE- Evidence of the ability to coordinate
  community-wide response to crime.
  `(3) MAINTAIN PROGRAM- The ability to maintain a program to control and
  prevent crime after funding under this part is no longer available.
  `(b) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION- The Director shall attempt, to the extent
  practicable, to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards.
`SEC. 1605. REPORTS.
  `(a) REPORT TO DIRECTOR- Recipients who receive funds under this part
  shall submit to the Director not later than March 1 of each year a report
  that describes progress achieved in carrying out the plan required under
  section 1602(c).
  `(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Director shall submit to the Congress a
  report by October 1 of each year that shall contain a detailed statement
  regarding grant awards, activities of grant recipients, and an evaluation
  of projects established under this part.
`SEC. 1606. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purposes of this part:
  `(1) The term `community group' means a community-based nonprofit
  organization that has a primary purpose of crime prevention.
  `(2) The term `Director' means the Director of the Bureau of Justice
  Assistance.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is
  amended by striking the matter relating to part P and inserting the
  following:
`Part P--Community Policing; Cop on the Beat Grants
`Sec. 1601. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 1602. Application.
`Sec. 1603. Allocation of funds; limitation on grants.
`Sec. 1604. Award of grants.
`Sec. 1605. Reports.
`Sec. 1606. Definitions.
`Part Q--Transition; Effective Date; Repealer
`Sec. 1701. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
SEC. 103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating the last 3 paragraphs as paragraphs (7), (8), and
  (9); and
  (2) by adding after paragraph (9) the following:
  `(10) There are authorized to be appropriated $150,000,000 to carry out
  this part for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 to carry out
  the projects under part P.'.
TITLE II--DRUG TREATMENT IN FEDERAL PRISONS
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Drug Treatment in Federal Prisons Act
  of 1991'.
SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title--
  (1) the term `residential substance abuse treatment' means a course
  of individual and group activities, lasting between 9 and 12 months,
  in residential treatment facilities set apart from the general prison
  population--
  (A) directed at the substance abuse problems of the prisoner; and
  (B) intended to develop the prisoner's cognitive, behavioral, social,
  vocational, and other skills so as to solve the prisoner's substance abuse
  and related problems; and
  (2) the term `eligible prisoner' means a prisoner who is--
  (A) determined by the Bureau of Prisons to have a substance abuse problem;
  and
  (B) willing to participate in a residential substance abuse treatment
  program.
SEC. 203. IMPLEMENTATION OF SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT REQUIREMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- In order to carry out the requirement of the last sentence
  of section 3621(b) of title 18, United States Code, that every prisoner
  with a substance abuse problem have the opportunity to participate in
  appropriate substance abuse treatment, the Bureau of Prisons shall provide
  residential substance abuse treatment--
  (1) for not less than 50 percent of eligible prisoners by the end of fiscal
  year 1993;
  (2) for not less than 75 percent of eligible prisoners by the end of fiscal
  year 1994; and
  (3) for all eligible prisoners by the end of fiscal year 1995 and thereafter.
  (b) INCENTIVE FOR PRISONERS' SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF TREATMENT PROGRAM-
  Section 3621 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end the following:
  `(e) INCENTIVE FOR PRISONERS' SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF TREATMENT PROGRAM-
  `(1) GENERALLY- Any prisoner who, in the judgment of the Director of the
  Bureau of Prisons, has successfully completed a program of residential
  substance abuse treatment provided under subsection (b) of this section,
  shall remain in the custody of the Bureau for such time (as limited by
  paragraph (2) of this subsection) and under such conditions, as the Bureau
  deems appropriate. If the conditions of confinement are different from those
  the prisoner would have experienced absent the successful completion of the
  treatment, the Bureau shall periodically test the prisoner for drug abuse
  and discontinue such conditions on determining that drug abuse has recurred.
  `(2) PERIOD OF CUSTODY- The period the prisoner remains in custody after
  successfully completing a treatment program shall not exceed the prison
  term the law would otherwise require such prisoner to serve, but may not
  be less than such term minus one year.'.
SEC. 204. REPORT.
  The Bureau of Prisons shall transmit to the Congress on January 1, 1993, and
  on January 1 of each year thereafter, a report. Such report shall contain--
  (1) a detailed quantitative and qualitative description of each substance
  abuse treatment program, residential or not, operated by the Bureau;
  (2) a full explanation of how eligibility for such programs is determined,
  with complete information on what proportion of prisoners with substance
  abuse problems are eligible; and
  (3) a complete statement of to what extent the Bureau has achieved compliance
  with the requirements of this Act.
SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1991 and each
  fiscal year thereafter such sums as may be necessary to carry out this title.
TITLE III--SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT IN STATE PRISONS
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Substance Abuse Treatment in State Prisons
  Act of 1991'.
SEC. 302. RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FOR PRISONERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 102, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part Q as part R;
  (2) by redesignating section 1701 as section 1801; and
  (3) by inserting after part P the following:
`PART Q--RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FOR PRISONERS
`SEC. 1701. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  `The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance (referred to in this
  part as the `Director') may make grants under this part to States, for the
  use by States for the purpose of developing and implementing residential
  substance abuse treatment programs within State correctional facilities.
`SEC. 1702. STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To request a grant under this part the chief executive
  of a State shall submit an application to the Director in such form and
  containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.
  `(2) Such application shall include assurances that Federal funds received
  under this part shall be used to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds
  that would otherwise be available for activities funded under this part.
  `(3) Such application shall coordinate the design and implementation of
  treatment programs between State correctional representatives and the
  State Alcohol and Drug Abuse agency.
  `(b) DRUG TESTING REQUIREMENT- To be eligible to receive funds under this
  part, a State must agree to implement or continue to require urinalysis or
  similar testing of individuals in correctional residential substance abuse
  treatment programs. Such testing shall include individuals released from
  residential substance abuse treatment programs who remain in the custody
  of the State.
  `(c) ELIGIBILITY FOR PREFERENCE WITH AFTER CARE COMPONENT-
  `(1) To be eligible for a preference under this part, a State must ensure
  that individuals who participate in the drug treatment program established
  or implemented with assistance provided under this part will be provided
  with aftercare services.
  `(2) State aftercare services must involve the coordination of the prison
  treatment program with other human service and rehabilitation programs,
  such as educational and job training programs, parole supervision programs,
  half-way house programs, and participation in self-help and peer group
  programs, that may aid in the rehabilitation of individuals in the drug
  treatment program.
  `(3) To qualify as an aftercare program, the head of the drug treatment
  program, in conjunction with State and local authorities and organizations
  involved in drug treatment, shall assist in placement of drug treatment
  program participants with appropriate community drug treatment facilities
  when such individuals leave prison at the end of a sentence or on parole.
  `(d) STATE OFFICE- The office designated under section 507 of title I of
  the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3757)--
  `(1) shall prepare the application as required under subsection (a); and
  `(2) shall administer grant funds received under this part, including,
  review of spending, processing, progress, financial reporting, technical
  assistance, grant adjustments, accounting, auditing, and fund disbursement.
`SEC. 1703. REVIEW OF STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Bureau shall make a grant under section 1701 to carry
  out the projects described in the application submitted under section
  1702(a) upon determining that--
  `(1) the application is consistent with the requirements of this part; and
  `(2) before the approval of the application the Bureau has made an
  affirmative finding in writing that the proposed project has been reviewed
  in accordance with this part.
  `(b) APPROVAL- Each application submitted under section 1702 shall be
  considered approved, in whole or in part, by the Bureau not later than
  45 days after first received unless the Bureau informs the applicant of
  specific reasons for disapproval.
  `(c) RESTRICTION- Grant funds received under this part shall not be used
  for land acquisition or construction projects.
  `(d) DISAPPROVAL NOTICE AND RECONSIDERATION- The Bureau shall not disapprove
  any application without first affording the applicant reasonable notice
  and an opportunity for reconsideration.
`SEC. 1704. ALLOCATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
  `(a) ALLOCATION- Of the total amount appropriated under this part in any
  fiscal year--
  `(1) 0.4 percent shall be allocated to each of the participating States; and
  `(2) of the total funds remaining after the allocation under paragraph (1),
  there shall be allocated to each of the participating States an amount
  which bears the same ratio to the amount of remaining funds described in
  this paragraph as the State prison population of such State bears to the
  total prison population of all the participating States.
  `(b) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of a grant made under this part may
  not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the
  application submitted under section 1702 for the fiscal year for which
  the projects receive assistance under this part.
`SEC. 1705. EVALUATION.
  `Each State that receives a grant under this part shall submit to the
  Director an evaluation not later than March 1 of each year in such form
  and containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.),
  as amended by section 102 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part Q and inserting the following:
`Part Q--Residential Substance Abuse Treatment for Prisoners
`Sec. 1701. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 1702. State applications.
`Sec. 1703. Review of State applications.
`Sec. 1704. Allocation and distribution of funds.
`Sec. 1705. Evaluation.
`Part R--Transition; Effective Date; Repealer
`Sec. 1801. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
SEC. 303. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 901(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3791(a)) is amended by adding after paragraph (23) the following:
  `(24) The term `residential substance abuse treatment program' means
  a course of individual and group activities, lasting between 9 and 12
  months, in residential treatment facilities set apart from the general
  prison population--
  `(A) directed at the substance abuse problems of the prisoner; and
  `(B) intended to develop the prisoner's cognitive, behavioral, social,
  vocational, and other skills so as to solve the prisoner's substance abuse
  and related problems.'.
SEC. 304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793) is amended by adding after paragraph (10)
  the following:
  `(11) There are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for each of the
  fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 to carry out the projects under part Q.'.
TITLE IV--SAFE SCHOOLS
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Safe Schools Act of 1991'.
SEC. 402. SAFE SCHOOLS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 302, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part R as part S;
  (2) by redesignating section 1801 as section 1901; and
  (3) by inserting after part Q the following:
`PART R--SAFE SCHOOLS ASSISTANCE
`SEC. 1801. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance may
  make grants to local educational agencies for the purpose of providing
  assistance to such agencies most directly affected by crime and violence.
  `(b) MODEL PROJECT- The Director shall develop a written safe schools model
  in a timely fashion and make such model available to any local educational
  agency that requests such information.
`SEC. 1802. USE OF FUNDS.
  `Grants made by the Director under this part shall be used--
  `(1) to fund anticrime and safety measures and to develop education and
  training programs for the prevention of crime, violence, and illegal drugs
  and alcohol;
  `(2) for counseling programs for victims of crime within schools;
  `(3) for crime prevention equipment, including metal detectors and
  video-surveillance devices; and
  `(4) for the prevention and reduction of the participation of young
  individuals in organized crime and drug and gang-related activities
  in schools.
`SEC. 1803. APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this
  part for any fiscal year, a local educational agency shall submit an
  application to the Director in such form and containing such information
  as the Director may reasonably require.
  `(b) REQUIREMENTS- Each application under subsection (a) shall include--
  `(1) a request for funds for the purposes described in section 1802;
  `(2) a description of the schools and communities to be served by the grant,
  including the nature of the crime and violence problems within such schools;
  `(3) assurances that Federal funds received under this part shall be used
  to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be
  available for activities funded under this part; and
  `(4) statistical information in such form and containing such information
  that the Director may require regarding crime within the schools served
  by such local educational agency.
  `(c) COMPREHENSIVE PLAN- Each application shall include a comprehensive
  plan that shall contain--
  `(1) a description of the crime problems within the schools targeted
  for assistance;
  `(2) a description of the projects to be developed;
  `(3) a description of the resources available in the community to implement
  the plan together with a description of the gaps in the plan that cannot
  be filled with existing resources;
  `(4) an explanation of how the requested grant will be used to fill gaps; and
  `(5) a description of the system the applicant will establish to prevent
  and reduce crime problems.
`SEC. 1804. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS; LIMITATIONS ON GRANTS.
  `(a) ADMINISTRATIVE COST LIMITATION- The Director shall use not more
  than 5 percent of the funds available under this part for the purposes of
  administration and technical assistance.
  `(b) RENEWAL OF GRANTS- A grant under this part may be renewed for up to
  2 additional years after the first fiscal year during which the recipient
  receives its initial grant under this part, subject to the availability
  of funds, if--
  `(1) the Director determines that the funds made available to the recipient
  during the previous year were used in a manner required under the approved
  application; and
  `(2) the Director determines that an additional grant is necessary to
  implement the crime prevention program described in the comprehensive plan
  as required by section 1803(c).
`SEC. 1805. AWARD OF GRANTS.
  `(a) SELECTION OF RECIPIENTS- The Director shall consider the following
  factors in awarding grants to local educational agencies:
  `(1) CRIME PROBLEM- The nature and scope of the crime problem in the
  targeted schools.
  `(2) NEED AND ABILITY- Demonstrated need and evidence of the ability to
  provide the services described in the plan required under section 1803(c).
  `(3) POPULATION- The number of students to be served by the plan required
  under section 1803(c).
  `(b) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION- The Director shall attempt, to the extent
  practicable, to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards.
`SEC. 1806. REPORTS.
  `(a) REPORT TO DIRECTOR- Local educational agencies that receive funds
  under this part shall submit to the Director a report not later than March
  1 of each year that describes progress achieved in carrying out the plan
  required under section 1803(c).
  `(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Director shall submit to the Congress a report
  by October 1 of each year in which grants are made available under this
  part which shall contain a detailed statement regarding grant awards,
  activities of grant recipients, a compilation of statistical information
  submitted by applicants under 1803(b)(4), and an evaluation of programs
  established under this part.
`SEC. 1807. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purpose of this part:
  `(1) The term `Director' means the Director of the Bureau of Justice
  Assistance.
  `(2) The term `local educational agency' means a public board of
  education or other public authority legally constituted within a State
  for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service
  function for, public elementary and secondary schools in a city, county,
  township, school district, or other political subdivision of a State, or
  such combination of school districts of counties as are recognized in a
  State as an administrative agency for its public elementary and secondary
  schools. Such term includes any other public institution or agency having
  administrative control and direction of a public elementary or secondary
  school.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.),
  as amended by section 302 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part R and inserting the following:
`Part R--Safe Schools Assistance
`Sec. 1801. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 1802. Use of funds.
`Sec. 1803. Applications.
`Sec. 1804. Allocation of funds; limitations on grants.
`Sec. 1805. Award of grants.
`Sec. 1806. Reports.
`Sec. 1807. Definitions.
`Part S--Transition; Effective Date; Repealer
`Sec. 1901. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
SEC. 403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3793), as amended by section 304 of this Act, is amended by
  adding after paragraph (11) the following:
  `(12) There are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for each of the
  fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 to carry out the projects under part R.'.
TITLE V--VICTIMS OF CRIME
Subtitle A--Crime Victims Fund
SEC. 501. CRIME VICTIMS FUND.
  (a) ELIMINATION OF FUND CEILINGS AND SUNSET PROVISION- Subsection (c)
  of section 1402 (42 U.S.C. 10601) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984
  is repealed.
  (b) ALLOCATIONS-
  (1) GENERALLY- Section 1402(d)(2) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984
  (42 U.S.C. 10601(d)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(2) The Fund shall be available as follows:
  `(A) Of the total deposited in the Fund during a particular fiscal year--
  `(i) the first $10,000,000 shall be available for grants under section
  1404A of this title;
  `(ii) the next sums deposited, up to the reserved portion (as described
  in subparagraph (C)), shall be made available to the judicial branch
  for administrative costs to carry out the functions of that branch under
  sections 3611 and 3612 of title 18, United States Code;
  `(iii) and of the sums remaining after the allocations under clauses (i)
  and (ii)--
  `(I) 4 percent shall be available for grants under section 1404(c)(1); and
  `(II) 96 percent shall be available in equal amounts for grants under
  section 1403 and 1404(a) of this title.
  `(B) The Director may retain any portion of the Fund that was deposited
  during a fiscal year that is in excess of 110 percent of the total amount
  deposited in the Fund during the preceding fiscal year as a reserve for
  use in a year in which the Fund falls below the amount available in the
  previous year. Such reserve may not exceed $20,000,000.
  `(C) The reserved portion referred to in subparagraph (A) is $6,200,000
  in each of fiscal years 1992 through 1995 and $3,000,000 in each fiscal
  year thereafter.'.
  (2) CONFORMING CROSS-REFERENCE- Section 1402(g)(1) of the Victims of
  Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10601(g)(1)) is amended by striking `(iv)'
  and inserting `(i)' in lieu thereof.
  (c) AMOUNTS AWARDED AND UNSPENT- Section 1402(e) of the Victims of Crime
  Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10601(e)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any' and inserting
  `Any';
  (B) by striking `succeeding fiscal year' and inserting `two succeeding
  fiscal years';
  (C) by striking `which year' and inserting `which period'; and
  (D) by striking `the general fund of the Treasury' and inserting `the
  Fund'; and
  (2) by striking paragraph (2).
SEC. 502. PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION FORMULA.
  Section 1403(a)(1) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42
  U.S.C. 10602(a)(1)) is amended by striking `40 percent' and inserting
  `45 percent'.
SEC. 503. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS FOR CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION.
  (a) CREATION OF EXCEPTION- The final sentence of section 1403(a)(1) of the
  Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10602(a)(1)) is amended by striking
  `A grant' and inserting `Except as provided in paragraph (3), a grant'.
  (b) REQUIREMENTS OF EXCEPTION- Section 1403(a) of the Victims of Crime Act
  of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10602(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(3) The Director may permit not more than 5 percent of a grant made
  under this section to be used for the administration of the crime victim
  compensation program receiving the grant.'.
SEC. 504. RELATIONSHIP OF CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION TO CERTAIN FEDERAL
PROGRAMS.
  Section 1403 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10602) is
  amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the compensation paid
  by an eligible crime victim compensation program would cover costs that
  a Federal program, or a federally financed State or local program, would
  otherwise pay, then--
  `(1) such crime victim compensation program shall not pay that compensation;
  and
  `(2) the other program shall make its payments without regard to the
  existence of the crime victim compensation program.'.
SEC. 505. USE OF UNSPENT SECTION 1403 MONEY.
  Section 1404(a)(1) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42
  U.S.C. 10603(a)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `or for the purpose of grants under section 1403 but not
  used for that purpose,'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
`The Director, in the Director's discretion, may use amounts made available
under section 1402(d)(2) for the purposes of grants under section 1403 but
not used for that purpose, for grants under this subsection, either in the
year such amounts are not so used, or the next year.'.
SEC. 506. UNDERSERVED VICTIMS.
  Section 1404(a) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10603(a))
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(6) In making the certification required by paragraph (2)(B), the chief
  executive shall give particular attention to children who are victims of
  violent street crime.'.
SEC. 507. GRANTS FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
  Section 1404(c)(1)(A) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42
  U.S.C. 10603(c)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting `demonstration projects and'
  before `training'.
SEC. 508. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS FOR CRIME VICTIM ASSISTANCE.
  (a) Section 1404(a) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10603(A))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by inserting `, except as provided in paragraph (7)'
  after `programs', and
  (2) by adding after the paragraph added by section 506 of this Act the
  following:
  `(7) The Director may permit not more than 5 percent of sums provided
  under this subsection to be used by the chief executive of each State for
  the administration of such sums.'.
SEC. 509. CHANGE OF DUE DATE FOR REQUIRED REPORT.
  Section 1407(g) of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10604(g))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `December 31, 1990', and inserting `May 31, 1993'; and
  (2) by striking `December 31' the second place it appears and inserting
  `May 31' in lieu thereof.
SEC. 510. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.
  Section 1407 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10604) is
  amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(h) Each entity receiving sums made available under this Act for
  administrative purposes shall certify that such sums will not be used to
  supplant State or local funds, but will be used to increase the amount of
  such funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds, be made available
  for these purposes.'.
SEC. 511. DELAYED EFFECTIVE DATE FOR CERTAIN PROVISIONS.
  Sections 102(b), 103, 104, and 109, and the amendments made by those
  sections, shall take effect with respect to the first fiscal year that
  begins after the date of the enactment of this Act for which the Director
  certifies there are sufficient sums in the Victim Assistance Fund and the
  Victims Compensation Fund, as of the end of the previous fiscal year, to
  make the allocations required under such sections and amendments without
  reducing the then current funding levels of programs supported by such Funds.
Subtitle B--Restitution
SEC. 521. RESTITUTION AMENDMENTS.
  (a) EXPANSION OF RESTITUTION- Section 3663(b) of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `and' following the semicolon in paragraph (3),
  redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5), and adding after paragraph
  (3) the following:
  `(4) in any case, reimburse the victim for necessary child care,
  transportation, and other expenses related to participation in the
  investigation or prosecution of the offense or attendance at proceedings
  related to the offense; and'.
  (b) SUSPENSION OF FEDERAL BENEFITS- Subsections (g) and (h) of section
  3663 of title 18, United States Code, are redesignated as subsections (h)
  and (i), respectively, and a new subsection (g) is inserted as follows:
  `(g)(1) If the defendant is delinquent in making restitution in accordance
  with any schedule of payments established under subsection (f)(1) of this
  section, or any requirement of immediate payment under subsection (f)(3)
  of this section, the court may, after a hearing, suspend the defendant's
  eligibility for all Federal benefits until such time as the defendant
  demonstrates to the court good-faith efforts to return to such schedule.
  `(2) For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) the term `Federal benefits'--
  `(i) means any grant, contract, loan, professional license, or commercial
  license provided by an agency of the United States or by appropriated
  funds of the United States; and
  `(ii) does not include any retirement, welfare, Social Security, health,
  disability, veterans benefit, public housing, or other similar benefit,
  or any other benefit for which payments or services are required for
  eligibility; and
  `(B) the term `veterans benefit' means all benefits provided to veterans,
  their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the
  Armed Forces of the United States.'.
  (c) Restitution for Victims of Sex Offenses- Section 3663(b)(2) of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by inserting `or an offense under chapter
  109A or chapter 110 of this title' after `an offense resulting in bodily
  injury to a victim'.
Subtitle C--HIV Testing
SEC. 531. HIV TESTING AND PENALTY ENHANCEMENT IN SEXUAL ABUSE CASES.
  (a) Chapter 109A of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 2247. Testing for human immunodeficiency virus; disclosure of test
results to victim; effect on penalty
  `(a) TESTING AT TIME OF PRETRIAL RELEASE DETERMINATION- In a case in which
  a person is charged with an offense under this chapter, a judicial officer
  issuing an order pursuant to section 3142(a) of this title shall include in
  the order a requirement that a test for the human immunodeficiency virus
  be performed upon the person, and that followup tests for the virus be
  performed 6 months and 12 months following the date of the initial test,
  unless the judicial officer determines that the conduct of the person
  created no risk of transmission of the virus to the victim, and so states
  in the order. The order shall direct that the initial test be performed
  within 24 hours, or as soon thereafter as feasible. The person shall not
  be released from custody until the test is performed.
  `(b) TESTING AT LATER TIME- If a person charged with an offense under this
  chapter was not tested for the human immunodeficiency virus pursuant to
  subsection (a), the court may at a later time direct that such a test be
  performed upon the person, and that follow-up tests be performed 6 months
  and 12 months following the date of the initial test, if it appears to the
  court that the conduct of the person may have risked transmission of the
  virus to the victim. A testing requirement under this subsection may be
  imposed at any time while the charge is pending, or following conviction
  at any time prior to the person's completion of service of the sentence.
  `(c) TERMINATION OF TESTING REQUIREMENT- A requirement of follow-up testing
  imposed under this section shall be canceled if any test is positive
  for the virus or the person obtains an acquittal on, or dismissal of,
  all charges under this chapter.
  `(d) DISCLOSURE OF TEST RESULTS- The results of any test for the human
  immunodeficiency virus performed pursuant to an order under this section
  shall be provided to the judicial officer or court. The judicial officer
  or court shall ensure that the results are disclosed to the victim (or to
  the victim's parent or legal guardian, as appropriate), the attorney for
  the Government, and the person tested.
  `(e) EFFECT ON PENALTY- The United States Sentencing Commission shall
  amend existing guidelines for sentences for offenses under this chapter
  to enhance the sentence if the offender knew or had reason to know that
  he was infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, except where the
  offender did not engage or attempt to engage in conduct creating a risk
  of transmission of the virus to the victim.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The section analysis for chapter 109A of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by inserting at the end thereof the following
  new item:
`2247. Testing for human immunodeficiency virus; disclosure of test results
to victim; effect on penalty.'.
SEC. 532. PAYMENT OF COST OF HIV TESTING FOR VICTIM.
  Section 503(c)(7) of the Victims' Rights and Restitution Act of 1990 is
  amended by inserting before the period at the end thereof the following: `,
  and the cost of up to two tests of the victim for the human immunodeficiency
  virus during the 12 months following the assault'.
TITLE VI--CERTAINTY OF PUNISHMENT FOR YOUNG OFFENDERS
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Certainty of Punishment for Young Offenders
  Act of 1991'.
SEC. 602. CERTAINTY OF PUNISHMENT FOR YOUNG OFFENDERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 402 of this Act,
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part S as part T;
  (2) by redesignating section 1901 as section 2001; and
  (3) by inserting after part R the following:
`PART S--ALTERNATIVE PUNISHMENTS FOR YOUNG OFFENDERS
`SEC. 1901. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance (referred
  to in this part as the `Director') may make grants under this part to
  States, for the use by States and units of local government in the States,
  for the purpose of developing alternative methods of punishment for young
  offenders to traditional forms of incarceration and probation.
  `(b) ALTERNATIVE METHODS- The alternative methods of punishment referred to
  in subsection (a) should ensure certainty of punishment for young offenders
  and promote reduced recidivism, crime prevention, and assistance to victims,
  particularly for young offenders who can be punished more effectively in
  an environment other than a traditional correctional facility, including--
  `(1) alternative sanctions that create accountability and certainty of
  punishment for young offenders;
  `(2) boot camp prison programs;
  `(3) technical training and support for the implementation and maintenance
  of State and local restitution programs for young offenders;
  `(4) innovative projects;
  `(5) correctional options, such as community-based incarceration, weekend
  incarceration, and electric monitoring of offenders;
  `(6) community service programs that provide work service placement for young
  offenders at nonprofit, private organizations and community organizations;
  `(7) demonstration restitution projects that are evaluated for effectiveness;
  and
  `(8) innovative methods that address the problems of young offenders
  convicted of serious substance abuse and gang-related offenses, including
  technical assistance and training to counsel and treat such offenders.
`SEC. 1902. STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To request a grant under this part, the chief executive
  of a State shall submit an application to the Director in such form and
  containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.
  `(2) Such application shall include assurances that Federal funds received
  under this part shall be used to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds
  that would otherwise be available for activities funded under this part.
  `(b) STATE OFFICE- The office designated under section 507 of title I of
  the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3757)--
  `(1) shall prepare the application as required under subsection (a); and
  `(2) shall administer grant funds received under this part, including,
  review of spending, processing, progress, financial reporting, technical
  assistance, grant adjustments, accounting, auditing, and fund disbursement.
`SEC. 1903. REVIEW OF STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Bureau shall make a grant under section 1901(a)
  to carry out the projects described in the application submitted by such
  applicant under section 1902(a) upon determining that--
  `(1) the application is consistent with the requirements of this part; and
  `(2) before the approval of the application, the Bureau has made an
  affirmative finding in writing that the proposed project has been reviewed
  in accordance with this part.
  `(b) APPROVAL- Each application submitted under section 1902 shall be
  considered approved, in whole or in part, by the Bureau not later than
  45 days after first received unless the Bureau informs the applicant of
  specific reasons for disapproval.
  `(c) RESTRICTION- Grant funds received under this part shall not be used
  for land acquisition or construction projects, other than alternative
  facilities described in section 1901(b) for young offenders.
  `(d) DISAPPROVAL NOTICE AND RECONSIDERATION- The Bureau shall not disapprove
  any application without first affording the applicant reasonable notice
  and an opportunity for reconsideration.
`SEC. 1904. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To request funds under this part from a State, the
  chief executive of a unit of local government shall submit an application
  to the office designated under section 1902(b).
  `(2) Such application shall be considered approved, in whole or in part, by
  the State not later than 45 days after such application is first received
  unless the State informs the applicant in writing of specific reasons
  for disapproval.
  `(3) The State shall not disapprove any application submitted to the State
  without first affording the applicant reasonable notice and an opportunity
  for reconsideration.
  `(4) If such application is approved, the unit of local government is
  eligible to receive such funds.
  `(b) DISTRIBUTION TO UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT- A State that receives
  funds under section 1901 in a fiscal year shall make such funds available
  to units of local government with an application that has been submitted
  and approved by the State within 45 days after the Bureau has approved
  the application submitted by the State and has made funds available to
  the State. The Director shall have the authority to waive the 45-day
  requirement in this section upon a finding that the State is unable to
  satisfy such requirement under State statutes.
`SEC. 1905. ALLOCATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
  `(a) STATE DISTRIBUTION- Of the total amount appropriated under this part
  in any fiscal year--
  `(1) 0.4 percent shall be allocated to each of the participating States; and
  `(2) of the total funds remaining after the allocation under paragraph (1),
  there shall be allocated to each of the participating States an amount
  which bears the same ratio to the amount of remaining funds described in
  this paragraph as the number of young offenders of such State bears to
  the number of young offenders in all the participating States.
  `(b) LOCAL DISTRIBUTION- (1) A State that receives funds under this part
  in a fiscal year shall distribute to units of local government in such
  State for the purposes specified under section 1901 that portion of such
  funds which bears the same ratio to the aggregate amount of such funds as
  the amount of funds expended by all units of local government for criminal
  justice in the preceding fiscal year bears to the aggregate amount of funds
  expended by the State and all units of local government in such State for
  criminal justice in such preceding fiscal year.
  `(2) Any funds not distributed to units of local government under paragraph
  (1) shall be available for expenditure by such State for purposes specified
  under section 1901.
  `(3) If the Director determines, on the basis of information available during
  any fiscal year, that a portion of the funds allocated to a State for such
  fiscal year will not be used by such State or that a State is not eligible
  to receive funds under section 1901, the Director shall award such funds
  to units of local government in such State giving priority to the units
  of local government that the Director considers to have the greatest need.
  `(c) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of a grant made under this part may
  not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the
  application submitted under section 1902(a) for the fiscal year for which
  the projects receive assistance under this part.
`SEC. 1906. EVALUATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) Each State and local unit of government that receives
  a grant under this part shall submit to the Director an evaluation not
  later than March 1 of each year in accordance with guidelines issued by
  the Director and in consultation with the National Institute of Justice.
  `(2) The Director may waive the requirement specified in subsection (a)
  if the Director determines that such evaluation is not warranted in the
  case of the State or unit of local government involved.
  `(b) DISTRIBUTION- The Director shall make available to the public on a
  timely basis evaluations received under subsection (a).
  `(c) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS- A State and local unit of government may use
  not more than 5 percent of funds it receives under this part to develop
  an evaluation program under this section.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.),
  as amended by section 402 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part S and inserting the following:
`Part S--Alternative Punishments for Young Offenders
`Sec. 1901. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 1902. State applications.
`Sec. 1903. Review of State applications.
`Sec. 1904. Local applications.
`Sec. 1905. Allocation and distribution of funds.
`Sec. 1906. Evaluation.
`Part T--Transition; Effective Date; Repealer
`Sec. 2001. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
SEC. 603. DEFINITION.
  Section 901(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3791(a)), as amended by section 303 of this Act, is amended by
  adding after paragraph (24) the following:
  `(25) The term `young offender' means an individual 28 years of age or
  younger.'.
SEC. 604. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793) is amended by adding after paragraph (12)
  the following:
  `(13) There are authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 for each of the
  fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 to carry out the projects under part S.'.
TITLE VII--DRUG TESTING OF ARRESTED INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 701. DRUG TESTING UPON ARREST.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 602 of this Act,
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part T as part U;
  (2) by redesignating section 2001 as section 2101; and
  (3) by inserting after part S the following:
`PART T--GRANTS FOR DRUG TESTING UPON ARREST
`SEC. 2001. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance is authorized to make
  grants under this part to States, for the use by States and units of local
  government in the States, for the purpose of developing, implementing,
  or continuing a drug testing project when individuals are arrested and
  during the pretrial period.
`SEC. 2002. STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS- To request a grant under this part the chief
  executive of a State shall submit an application to the Director in such
  form and containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.
  `(b) MANDATORY ASSURANCES- To be eligible to receive funds under this part,
  a State must agree to develop or maintain programs of urinalysis or similar
  drug testing of individuals upon arrest and on a regular basis pending
  trial for the purpose of making pretrial detention decisions.
  `(c) CENTRAL OFFICE- The office designated under section 507 of title I
  of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711
  et seq.)--
  `(1) shall prepare the application as required under subsection (a); and
  `(2) shall administer grant funds received under this part, including,
  review of spending, processing, progress, financial reporting, technical
  assistance, grant adjustments, accounting, auditing, and fund disbursement.
`SEC. 2003. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To request funds under this part from a State, the
  chief executive of a unit of local government shall submit an application
  to the office designated under section 2002(c).
  `(2) Such application shall be considered approved, in whole or in part, by
  the State not later than 90 days after such application is first received
  unless the State informs the applicant in writing of specific reasons
  for disapproval.
  `(3) The State shall not disapprove any application submitted to the State
  without first affording the applicant reasonable notice and an opportunity
  for reconsideration.
  `(4) If such application is approved, the unit of local government is
  eligible to receive such funds.
  `(b) DISTRIBUTION TO UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT- A State that receives
  funds under section 2001 in a fiscal year shall make such funds available
  to units of local government with an application that has been submitted
  and approved by the State within 90 days after the Bureau has approved
  the application submitted by the State and has made funds available to
  the State. The Director shall have the authority to waive the 90-day
  requirement in this section upon a finding that the State is unable to
  satisfy such requirement under State statutes.
`SEC. 2004. ALLOCATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
  `(a) STATE DISTRIBUTION- Of the total amount appropriated under this part
  in any fiscal year--
  `(1) 0.4 percent shall be allocated to each of the participating States; and
  `(2) of the total funds remaining after the allocation under paragraph (1),
  there shall be allocated to each of the participating States an amount
  which bears the same ratio to the amount of remaining funds described in
  this paragraph as the number of individuals arrested in such State bears
  to the number of individuals arrested in all the participating States.
  `(b) LOCAL DISTRIBUTION- (1) A State that receives funds under this part in
  a fiscal year shall distribute to units of local government in such State
  that portion of such funds which bears the same ratio to the aggregate
  amount of such funds as the amount of funds expended by all units of local
  government for criminal justice in the preceding fiscal year bears to the
  aggregate amount of funds expended by the State and all units of local
  government in such State for criminal justice in such preceding fiscal year.
  `(2) Any funds not distributed to units of local government under paragraph
  (1) shall be available for expenditure by such State for purposes specified
  in such State's application.
  `(3) If the Director determines, on the basis of information available during
  any fiscal year, that a portion of the funds allocated to a State for such
  fiscal year will not be used by such State or that a State is not eligible
  to receive funds under section 2001, the Director shall award such funds
  to units of local government in such State giving priority to the units
  of local government that the Director considers to have the greatest need.
  `(c) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of a grant made under this part may
  not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the
  application submitted under section 2002 for the fiscal year for which
  the projects receive assistance under this part.
  `(d) GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION- The Director shall attempt, to the extent
  practicable, to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards.
`SEC. 2005. REPORT.
  `A State or unit of local government that receives funds under this part
  shall submit to the Director a report in March of each fiscal year that
  funds are received under this part regarding the effectiveness of the drug
  testing project.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.),
  as amended by section 602 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part T and inserting the following:
`PART T--DRUG TESTING FOR INDIVIDUALS ARRESTED
`Sec. 2001. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 2002. State applications.
`Sec. 2003. Local applications.
`Sec. 2004. Allocation and distribution of funds.
`Sec. 2005. Report.
`PART U--TRANSITION; EFFECTIVE DATE; REPEALER
`Sec. 2101. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
SEC. 702. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3793), as amended by section 604 of this Act, is amended by
  adding after paragraph (13) the following:
  `(14) There are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for the fiscal
  years 1992, 1993, and 1994 to carry out the projects under part T.'.
TITLE VIII--DRUG EMERGENCY AREAS ACT OF 1991
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Drug Emergency Areas Act of 1991'.
SEC. 802. DRUG EMERGENCY AREAS.
  Subsection (c) of section 1005 of the National Narcotics Leadership Act
  of 1988 is amended to read as follows:
  `(c) DECLARATION OF DRUG EMERGENCY AREAS-
  `(1) PRESIDENTIAL DECLARATION- (A) In the event that a major drug-related
  emergency exists throughout a State or a part of a State, the President
  may, in consultation with the Director and other appropriate officials,
  declare such State or part of a State to be a drug emergency area and
  may take any and all necessary actions authorized by this subsection or
  otherwise authorized by law.
  `(B) For the purposes of this subsection, the term `major drug-related
  emergency' means any occasion or instance in which drug trafficking,
  drug abuse, or drug-related violence reaches such levels, as determined
  by the President, that Federal assistance is needed to supplement State
  and local efforts and capabilities to save lives, and to protect property
  and public health and safety.
  `(2) PROCEDURE FOR DECLARATION- (A) All requests for a declaration by
  the President designating an area to be a drug emergency area shall
  be made, in writing, by the Governor or chief executive officer of any
  affected State or local government, respectively, and shall be forwarded
  to the President through the Director in such form as the Director may by
  regulation require. One or more cities, counties, or States may submit a
  joint request for designation as a drug emergency area under this subsection.
  `(B) Any request made under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall
  be based on a written finding that the major drug-related emergency is
  of such severity and magnitude, that Federal assistance is necessary to
  assure an effective response to save lives, and to protect property and
  public health and safety.
  `(C) The President shall not limit declarations made under this subsection
  to highly-populated centers of drug trafficking, drug use or drug-related
  violence, but shall also consider applications from governments of less
  populated areas where the magnitude and severity of such activities is
  beyond the capability of the State or local government to respond.
  `(D) As part of a request for a declaration by the President under this
  subsection, and as a prerequisite to Federal drug emergency assistance
  under this subsection, the Governor(s) or chief executive officer(s) shall--
  `(i) take appropriate action under State or local law and furnish such
  information on the nature and amount of State and local resources which have
  been or will be committed to alleviating the major drug-related emergency;
  `(ii) certify that State and local government obligations and expenditures
  will comply with all applicable cost-sharing requirements of this
  subsection; and
  `(iii) submit a detailed plan outlining that government's short- and
  long-term plans to respond to the major drug-related emergency, specifying
  the types and levels of Federal assistance requested, and including explicit
  goals (where possible quantitative goals) and timetables and shall specify
  how Federal assistance provided under this subsection is intended to
  achieve such goals.
  `(E) The Director shall review any request submitted pursuant to this
  subsection and forward the application, along with a recommendation to the
  President on whether to approve or disapprove the application, within 30
  days after receiving such application. Based on the application and the
  recommendation of the Director, the President may declare an area to be
  a drug emergency area under this subsection.
  `(3) FEDERAL MONETARY ASSISTANCE- (A) The President is authorized to make
  grants to State or local governments of up to, in the aggregate for any
  single major drug-related emergency, $50,000,000.
  `(B) The Federal share of assistance under this section shall not be
  greater than 75 percent of the costs necessary to implement the short-
  and long-term plan outlined in paragraph (2)(D)(iii).
  `(C) Federal assistance under this subsection shall not be provided to a drug
  disaster area for more than 1 year. In any case where Federal assistance
  is provided under this Act, the Governor(s) or chief executive officer(s)
  may apply to the President, through the Director, for an extension of
  assistance beyond 1 year. The President, based on the recommendation of
  the Director, may extend the provision of Federal assistance for not more
  than an additional 180 days.
  `(D) Any State or local government receiving Federal assistance under this
  subsection shall balance the allocation of such assistance evenly between
  drug supply reduction and drug demand reduction efforts, unless State or
  local conditions dictate otherwise.
  `(4) NONMONETARY ASSISTANCE- In addition to the assistance provided under
  paragraph (3), the President may--
  `(A) direct any Federal agency, with or without reimbursement, to utilize
  its authorities and the resources granted to it under Federal law (including
  personnel, equipment, supplies, facilities, and managerial, technical,
  and advisory services) in support of State and local assistance efforts; and
  `(B) provide technical and advisory assistance, including communications
  support and law enforcement-related intelligence information.
  `(5) ISSUANCE OF IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS- Not later than 90 days after
  the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Director shall issue
  regulations to implement this subsection, including such regulations as
  may be necessary relating to applications for Federal assistance and the
  provision of Federal monetary and nonmonetary assistance.
  `(6) AUDIT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL- Assistance under this subsection shall
  be subject to annual audit by the Comptroller General.
  `(7) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  for each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994, $300,000,000 to carry out
  this subsection.'.
TITLE IX--COERCED CONFESSIONS
SEC. 901. COERCED CONFESSIONS.
  The admission into evidence of a coerced confession shall not be considered
  harmless error. For the purposes of this section, a confession is coerced
  if it is elicited in violation of the fifth or fourteenth articles of
  amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
TITLE X--DNA IDENTIFICATION
SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `DNA Identification Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1002. FUNDING TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY AND AVAILABILITY OF DNA ANALYSES
FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES.
  (a) Section 501(b) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3751(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (20) by striking `and' at the end,
  (2) in paragraph (21) by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
  and', and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(22) developing or improving in a forensic laboratory a capability to
  analyze deoxyribonucleic acid (hereinafter in this title referred to as
  `DNA') for identification purposes.'.
  (b) Section 503(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3753(a)) is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following new paragraph:
  `(12) If any part of a grant made under this part is to be used to
  develop or improve a DNA analysis capability in a forensic laboratory,
  a certification that--
  `(A) DNA analyses performed at such laboratory will satisfy or exceed then
  current standards for a quality assurance program for DNA analysis, issued
  by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation under section 1003
  of the DNA Identification Act of 1991;
  `(B) DNA samples obtained by, and DNA analyses performed at, such laboratory
  will be accessible only--
  `(i) to criminal justice agencies for law enforcement identification
  purposes;
  `(ii) for criminal defense purposes, to a defendant, who shall have access
  to samples and analyses performed in connection with the case in which
  such defendant is charged; or
  `(iii) if personally identifiable information is removed, for a population
  statistics database, for identification research and protocol development
  purposes, or for quality control purposes; and
  `(C) such laboratory, and each analyst performing DNA analyses at such
  laboratory, will undergo, at regular intervals of not to exceed 180 days,
  external proficiency testing by a DNA proficiency testing program meeting the
  standards issued under section 1003 of the DNA Identification Act of 1991.'.
  (c) For each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1996, there are authorized
  to be appropriated $10 million for grants to the states for DNA analysis.
SEC. 1003. QUALITY ASSURANCE AND PROFICIENCY TESTING STANDARDS.
  (a) PUBLICATION OF QUALITY ASSURANCE AND PROFICIENCY TESTING STANDARDS- (1)
  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
  Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall appoint an advisory
  board on DNA quality assurance methods. The Director shall appoint members
  of the board from among nominations proposed by the head of the National
  Academy of Sciences and professional societies of crime laboratory directors.
  The advisory board shall include as members scientists from state and local
  forensic laboratories, molecular geneticists and population geneticists
  not affiliated with a forensic laboratory, and a representative from the
  National Institute of Standards and Technology. The advisory board shall
  develop, and if appropriate, periodically revise, recommended standards
  for quality assurance, including standards for testing the proficiency of
  forensic laboratories, and forensic analysts, in conducting analyses of DNA.
  (2) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, after taking into
  consideration such recommended standards, shall issue (and revise from
  time to time) standards for quality assurance, including standards for
  testing the proficiency of forensic laboratories, and forensic analysts,
  in conducting analyses of DNA.
  (3) The standards described in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall specify criteria
  for quality assurance and proficiency tests to be applied to the various
  types of DNA analyses used by forensic laboratories. The standards shall
  also include a system for grading proficiency testing performance to
  determine whether a laboratory is performing acceptably.
  (4) Until such time as the advisory board has made recommendations to the
  Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Director has acted
  upon those recommendations, the quality assurance guidelines adopted by
  the technical working group  on DNA analysis methods shall be deemed the
  Director's standards for purposes of this section.
  (b) ADMINISTRATION OF THE ADVISORY BOARD- For administrative purposes, the
  advisory board appointed under subsection (a) shall be considered an advisory
  board to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Section 14 of
  the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5. U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with
  respect to the advisory  board appointed under subsection (a). The board
  shall cease to exist on the date 5 years after the initial appointments
  are made to the board, unless the existence of the board is extended by
  the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
SEC. 1004. INDEX TO FACILITATE LAW ENFORCEMENT EXCHANGE OF DNA IDENTIFICATION
INFORMATION
  (a) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation may  establish an
  index of--
  (1)  DNA identification records of persons convicted of crimes;
  (2) analyses of DNA samples recovered from crime scenes; and
  (3) analyses of DNA samples recovered from unidentified human remains.
  (b) Such index may include only information on DNA identification records
  and DNA analyses that are--
  (1) based on analyses performed in accordance with publicly available
  standards that satisfy or exceed the guidelines for a quality assurance
  program for DNA analysis, issued by the Director of the Federal Bureau of
  Investigation under section 1003 of the DNA Identification Act of 1991;
  (2) prepared by laboratories, and DNA analysts, that undergo, at regular
  intervals of not to exceed 180 days, external proficiency testing by a
  DNA proficiency testing program meeting the standards issued under section
  1003 of the DNA Identification Act of 1991; and
  (3) maintained by Federal, State, and local criminal justice  agencies
  pursuant to rules that allow  disclosure of stored DNA samples and DNA
  analyses only--
  (A) to criminal justice agencies for law enforcement identification purposes;
  (B) for criminal defense purposes, to a defendant, who shall have access
  to samples and analyses performed in connection with the case in which
  such defendant is charged; or
  (C) if personally identifiable information is removed, for a population
  statistics database, for identification research and protocol development
  purposes, or for quality control purposes.
  (c) The exchange of records authorized by this section is subject to
  cancellation if the quality control and privacy requirements described in
  subsection (b) of this section are not met.
SEC. 1005. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
  (a) PROFICIENCY TESTING REQUIREMENTS-
  (1) GENERALLY- Personnel at the Federal Bureau of Investigation who perform
  DNA analyses shall undergo, at regular intervals of not to exceed 180
  days, external proficiency testing by a DNA proficiency testing program
  meeting the standards issued under section 1003(b). Within one year of
  the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Bureau
  of Investigation shall arrange for periodic blind external tests to
  determine the proficiency of DNA analysis performed at the Federal Bureau
  of Investigation laboratory. As used in this paragraph, the term `blind
  external test' means a test that is presented to the laboratory through
  a second agency and appears to the analysts to involve routine evidence.
  (2) REPORT- For five years after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall submit to the
  Committees on the Judiciary of the House and Senate an annual report on
  the results of each of the tests referred to in paragraph (1).
  (b) PRIVACY PROTECTION STANDARDS-
  (1) GENERALLY- Except as provided in paragraph (2), the results of DNA
  tests performed for a Federal law enforcement agency for law enforcement
  purposes may be disclosed only--
  (A) to criminal justice agencies for law enforcement identification
  purposes; or
  (B) for criminal defense purposes, to a defendant, who shall have access
  to samples and analyses performed in connection with the case in which
  such defendant is charged.
  (2) EXCEPTION- If personally identifiable information is removed,
  test results may be disclosed for a population statistics database, for
  identification research and protocol development purposes, or for quality
  control purposes.
  (c) CRIMINAL PENALTY- (1) Whoever--
  (A) by virtue of employment or official position, has possession of, or
  access to, individually identifiable DNA information indexed in a database
  created or maintained by any Federal law enforcement agency; and
  (B) willfully discloses such information in any manner to any person or
  agency not entitled to receive it;
shall be fined not more than $100,000.
  (2) Whoever, without authorization, willfully obtains DNA samples or
  individually identifiable DNA information indexed in a database created
  or maintained by any Federal law enforcement agency shall be fined not
  more than $100,000.
SEC.  1006. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Federal Bureau of
  Investigation $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 through 1996 to
  carry out sections 1003, 1004, and 1005 of this Act.
TITLE XI--HABEAS CORPUS
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Habeas Corpus Reform Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1102. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
  Section 2254 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end the following:
  `(g)(1) In the case of an applicant under sentence of death, any application
  for habeas corpus relief under this section must be filed in the appropriate
  district court not later than one year after--
  `(A) the date of denial of a writ of certiorari, if a petition for a
  writ of certiorari to the highest court of the State on direct appeal or
  unitary review of the conviction and sentence is filed, within the time
  limits established by law, in the Supreme Court;
  `(B) the date of issuance of the mandate of the highest court of the State
  on direct appeal or unitary review of the conviction and sentence, if a
  petition for a writ of certiorari is not filed, within the time limits
  established by law, in the Supreme Court; or
  `(C) the date of issuance of the mandate of the Supreme Court, if on
  a petition for a writ of certiorari the Supreme Court grants the writ,
  and disposes of the case in a manner that leaves the capital sentence
  undisturbed.
  `(2) The time requirements established by this section shall be tolled--
  `(A) during any period in which the State has failed to provide counsel
  as required in section 2257 of this chapter;
  `(B) during the period from the date the applicant files an application
  for State postconviction relief until final disposition of the application
  by the State appellate courts, if all filing deadlines are met; and
  `(C) during an additional period not to exceed 90 days, if counsel moves
  for an extension in the district court that would have jurisdiction of a
  habeas corpus application and makes a showing of good cause.'.
SEC. 1103. STAYS OF EXECUTION IN CAPITAL CASES.
  Section 2251 of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)(1)' before the first paragraph;
  (2) by inserting `(2)' before the second paragraph; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(b) In the case of an individual under sentence of death, a warrant or
  order setting an execution shall be stayed upon application to any court
  that would have jurisdiction over an application for habeas corpus under
  this chapter. The stay shall be contingent upon reasonable diligence by
  the individual in pursuing relief with respect to such sentence and shall
  expire if--
  `(1) the individual fails to apply for relief under this chapter within
  the time requirements established by section 2254(g) of this chapter;
  `(2) upon completion of district court and court of appeals review under
  section 2254 of this chapter, the application is denied and--
  `(A) the time for filing a petition for a writ of certiorari expires before
  a petition is filed;
  `(B) a timely petition for a writ of certiorari is filed and the Supreme
  Court denies the petition; or
  `(C) a timely petition for certiorari is filed and, upon consideration
  of the case, the Supreme Court disposes of it in a manner that leaves the
  capital sentence undisturbed; or
  `(3) before a court of competent jurisdiction, in the presence of counsel
  qualified under section 2257 of this chapter and after being advised of
  the consequences of the decision, an individual waives the right to pursue
  relief under this chapter.'.
SEC. 1104. LAW APPLICABLE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 153 of title 28, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 2256. Law applicable
  `In an action filed under this chapter, the court shall not apply a new
  rule. For purposes of this section, the term `new rule' means a clear
  break from precedent, announced by the Supreme Court of the United States,
  that could not reasonably have been anticipated at the time the claimant's
  sentence became final in State court.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  153 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end
  the following:
`2256. Law applicable.'.
SEC. 1105. COUNSEL IN CAPITAL CASES; STATE COURT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 153 of title 28, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 2257. Counsel in capital cases; State court
  `(a) A State in which capital punishment may be imposed shall provide
  legal services to--
  `(1) indigents charged with offenses for which capital punishment is sought;
  `(2) indigents who have been sentenced to death and who seek appellate,
  collateral, or unitary review in State court; and
  `(3) indigents who have been sentenced to death and who seek certiorari
  review of State court judgments in the United States Supreme Court.
  `(b) The State shall establish an appointing authority, which shall be--
  `(1) a statewide defender organization;
  `(2) a resource center; or
  `(3) a committee appointed by the highest State court, comprised of
  members of the bar with substantial experience in, or commitment to,
  criminal justice.
  `(c) The appointing authority shall--
  `(1) publish a roster of attorneys qualified to be appointed in capital
  cases, procedures by which attorneys are appointed, and standards governing
  qualifications and performance of counsel, which shall include--
  `(A) knowledge and understanding of pertinent legal authorities regarding
  issues in capital cases;
  `(B) skills in the conduct of negotiations and litigation in capital cases,
  the investigation of capital cases and the psychiatric history and current
  condition of capital clients, and the preparation and writing of legal
  papers in capital cases;
  `(C) in the case of counsel appointed for the trial or sentencing stages,
  5 years of experience in the representation of criminal clients in felony
  cases and experience in at least one case in which the death penalty was
  sought; and
  `(D) in the case of counsel appointed for the appellate, postconviction,
  or unitary review stages, 5 years of experience in the representation
  of criminal clients in felony cases at the appellate, postconviction,
  unitary review, or certiorari stages and experience in at least one case
  in which the client had been sentenced to death;
  `(2) monitor the performance of attorneys appointed and delete from
  the roster any attorney who fails to meet qualification and performance
  standards; and
  `(3) appoint a defense team, which shall include at least 2 attorneys,
  to represent a client at the relevant stage of proceedings, promptly
  upon receiving notice of the need for the appointment from the relevant
  State court.
  `(d) An attorney who is not listed on the roster shall be appointed only
  on the request of the client concerned and in circumstances in which
  the attorney requested is able to provide the client with quality legal
  representation.
  `(e) No counsel appointed pursuant to this section to represent a prisoner
  in State postconviction proceedings shall have previously represented
  the prisoner at trial or on direct appeal in the case for which the
  appointment is made, unless the prisoner and counsel expressly request
  continued representation.
  `(f) The ineffectiveness or incompetence of counsel appointed pursuant to
  this section during State or Federal postconviction proceedings shall not
  be a ground for relief in a proceeding arising under section 2254 of this
  title. This limitation shall not preclude the appointment of different
  counsel at any phase of State or Federal postconviction proceedings.
  `(g) Upon receipt of notice from the appointing authority that an individual
  entitled to the appointment of counsel under this section has declined
  to accept such an appointment, the court requesting the appointment shall
  conduct, or cause to be conducted, a hearing, at which the individual and
  counsel proposed to be appointed under this section shall be present,
  to determine the individual's competency to decline the appointment,
  and whether the individual has knowingly and intelligently declined it.
  `(h) Attorneys appointed from the private bar shall be compensated
  on an hourly basis and at a reasonable rate in light of the attorney's
  qualifications and experience and the local market for legal representation
  in cases reflecting the complexity and responsibility of capital cases
  and shall be reimbursed for expenses reasonably incurred in representing
  the client, including the costs of law clerks, paralegals, investigators,
  experts, or other support services.
  `(i) Support services for staff attorneys of a defender organization or
  resource center shall be equal to the services listed in subsection (h).
  `(j) If a State fails to provide counsel in a proceeding specified
  in subsection (a), or counsel appointed for such a proceeding fails
  substantially to meet the qualification standards specified in subsections
  (c)(1) or (d), or the performance standards established by the appointing
  authority, the court, in an action under this chapter, shall neither
  presume findings of fact made in such proceeding to be correct nor decline
  to consider a claim on the ground that it was not raised in such proceeding
  at the time or in the manner prescribed by State law.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  153 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end
  the following:
`2257. Counsel in capital cases; State court.'.
SEC 1106. SUCCESSIVE FEDERAL PETITIONS.
  Section 2244(b) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(b)';
  (2) by inserting `, in the case of an applicant not under sentence of
  death,' after `When'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(2) In the case of an applicant under sentence of death, a claim presented
  in a second or successive application, that was not presented in a prior
  application under this chapter, shall be dismissed unless--
  `(A) the applicant shows that--
  `(i) the basis of the claim could not have been discovered by the exercise
  of reasonable diligence before the applicant filed the prior application; or
  `(ii) the failure to raise the claim in the prior application was due to
  action by State officials in violation of the Constitution of the United
  States; and
  `(B) the facts underlying the claim would be sufficient, if proven, to
  undermine the court's confidence in the applicant's guilt of the offense
  or offenses for which the capital sentence was imposed, or in the validity
  of that sentence under Federal law.'.
SEC. 1107. CERTIFICATES OF PROBABLE CAUSE.
  The third paragraph of section 2253, title 28, United States Code, is
  amended to read as follows:
  `An appeal may not be taken to the court of appeals from the final order
  in a habeas corpus proceeding where the detention complained of arises
  out of process issued by a State court, unless the justice or judge who
  rendered the order or a circuit justice or judge issues a certificate of
  probable cause. However, an applicant under sentence of death shall have
  a right of appeal without a certification of probable cause, except after
  denial of a second or successive application.'.
TITLE XII--PROVISIONS RELATING TO POLICE OFFICERS
Subtitle A--Police Accountability
SEC. 1201. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `Police Accountability Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1202. PATTERN OR PRACTICE CASES.
  (a) CAUSE OF ACTION-
  (1) UNLAWFUL CONDUCT- It shall be unlawful for any governmental authority,
  or any agent thereof, or any person acting on behalf of a governmental
  authority, to engage in a pattern or practice of conduct by law enforcement
  officers that deprives persons of rights, privileges, or immunities,
  secured or protected by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
  (2) CIVIL ACTION BY ATTORNEY GENERAL- Whenever the Attorney General
  has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of paragraph (1) has
  occurred, the Attorney General, for or in the name of the United States,
  may in a civil action obtain appropriate equitable and declaratory relief
  to eliminate the pattern or practice.
  (3) CIVIL ACTION BY INJURED PERSON- Any person injured by a violation
  of paragraph (1) may in a civil action obtain appropriate equitable and
  declaratory relief to eliminate the pattern or practice. In any civil
  action under this paragraph, the court may allow the prevailing plaintiff
  reasonable attorneys' fees and other litigation fees and costs (including
  expert's fees). A governmental body shall be liable for such fees and
  costs to the same extent as a private individual.
  (b) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `law enforcement
  officer' means an official empowered by law to conduct investigations of,
  to make arrests for, or to detain individuals suspected or convicted of,
  criminal offenses.
SEC. 1203. DATA ON USE OF EXCESSIVE FORCE.
  (a) ATTORNEY GENERAL TO COLLECT- The Attorney General shall, through
  the victimization surveys conducted by the Bureau of Justice Statistics,
  acquire data about the use of excessive force by law enforcement officers.
  (b) LIMITATION ON USE OF DATA- Data acquired under this section shall be used
  only for research or statistical purposes and may not contain any information
  that may reveal the identity of the victim or any law enforcement officer.
  (c) ANNUAL SUMMARY- The Attorney General shall publish an annual summary
  of the data acquired under this section.
Subtitle B--Retired Public Safety Officer Death Benefit
SEC. 1211. RETIRED PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER DEATH BENEFIT.
  (a) PAYMENTS- Section 1201 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
  Safe Streets Act of 1968 is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a) by inserting after `line of duty' the following
  `or a retired public safety officer has died as the direct and proximate
  result of a personal injury sustained while responding to a fire, rescue,
  or police emergency';
  (2) in subsection (b) by inserting after `line of duty' the following
  `or a retired public safety officer has become permanently and totally
  disabled as the direct result of a catastrophic injury sustained while
  responding to a fire, rescue, or police emergency'; and
  (3) in subsections (c), (i), and (j) by inserting after `public safety
  officer' every place it occurs the following `or a retired public safety
  officer'.
  (b) LIMITATIONS- Section 1202 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
  Safe Streets Act of 1968 is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `the public safety officer or by such
  officer's intention' and inserting `the public safety officer or the
  retired public safety officer who had the intention';
  (2) in paragraph (2) by striking `the public safety officer' and inserting
  `the public safety officer or the retired public safety officer'; and
  (3) in paragraph (3) by striking `the public safety officer' and inserting
  `the public safety officer or the retired public safety officer'.
  (c) NATIONAL PROGRAM- Section 1203 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control
  and Safe Streets Act of 1968 is amended by inserting before the period `or
  retired public safety officers who have died while responding to a fire,
  rescue, or police emergency'.
  (d) DEFINITIONS- Section 1204 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' after paragraph (6);
  (2) by inserting `; and' at the end of paragraph (7); and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(8) `retired public safety officer' means a former public safety officer,
  as defined in paragraph (7), who has served a sufficient period of time in
  such capacity to become vested in the retirement system of a public agency
  with which the officer was employed and who retired from such agency in
  good standing.'.
  (e) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply with
  respect to death or injuries occurring after the date of the enactment of
  this section.
Subtitle C--Study on Police Officers' Rights
SEC. 1221. STUDY ON POLICE OFFICERS' RIGHTS.
  The Attorney General, through the National Institute of Justice, shall
  conduct a study of the procedures followed in internal, noncriminal
  investigations of State and local law enforcement officers to determine
  if such investigations are conducted fairly and effectively. The study
  shall examine the adequacy of the rights available to law enforcement
  officers and members of the public in cases involving the performance of
  a law enforcement officer, including--
  (1) notice;
  (2) conduct of questioning;
  (3) counsel;
  (4) hearings;
  (5) appeal; and
  (6) sanctions.
Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall submit to the Congress a report on the results of the study,
along with findings and recommendations on strategies to guarantee fair and
effective internal affairs investigations.
Subtitle D--Law Enforcement Scholarships
SECTION 1231. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `Law Enforcement Scholarship Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1232. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 791 of this Act,
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part U as part V;
  (2) by redesignating section 2101 as 2201; and
  (3) by inserting after part T the following:
  `PART U--LAW ENFORCEMENT SCHOLARSHIPS
`SEC. 2101. PURPOSES.
  `It is the purpose of this part to assist States to establish scholarship
  programs which--
  `(1) enhance the recruitment of young individuals to careers in law
  enforcement;
  `(2) assist State and local law enforcement efforts to enhance the
  educational status of law enforcement personnel; and
  `(3) provide educational assistance to law enforcement personnel seeking
  further education.
`SEC. 2102. DEFINITIONS.
  `For purposes of this part--
  `(1) the term `Director' means the Director of the Bureau of Justice
  Assistance;
  `(2) the term `educational expenses' means expenses that are directly
  attributable to--
  `(A) a course of education leading to the award of an associate degree;
  `(B) a course of education leading to the award of a baccalaureate degree; or
  `(C) a course of graduate study following award of a baccalaureate degree,
including the cost of tuition, fees, books, supplies and related expenses;
  `(3) the term `institution of higher education' has the same meaning given
  such term in section 1401(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965;
  `(4) the term `law enforcement position' means employment as an officer
  in a State or local police force, or correctional institution; and
  `(5) the term `State' means a State of the United States, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American
  Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
`SEC. 2103. ALLOTMENT.
  `From amounts appropriated under section 2111, the Director shall allocate--
  `(1) 80 percent of such funds to States on the basis of the number of law
  enforcement officers in each State; and
  `(2) 20 percent of such funds to States on the basis of the State's shortage
  of law enforcement personnel and the need for assistance under this part.
`SEC. 2104. PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- From amounts available pursuant to section 2103 each
  State shall pay the Federal share of the cost of awarding scholarships
  to in-service law enforcement personnel to enable such personnel to seek
  further education.
  `(b) FEDERAL SHARE- (1) The Federal share of the cost of scholarships
  under this part shall not exceed 60 percent.
  `(2) The non-Federal share of the cost of scholarships under this part
  shall be supplied from sources other than the Federal Government.
  `(c) LEAD AGENCY- Each State receiving an allotment under section 2103
  to conduct a scholarship program in the State in accordance with the
  provisions of this part shall designate an appropriate State agency to
  serve as the lead agency in carrying out the provisions of this part.
  `(d) RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR- The Director shall be responsible for the
  administration of the program conducted pursuant to this part and shall,
  in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education,
  promulgate regulations to implement this part.
  `(e) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- Each State receiving an allotment under
  section 2103 may reserve not more than 8 percent of such allotment for
  administrative expenses.
  `(f) SPECIAL RULE- Each State receiving an allotment under section 2103
  shall ensure that each scholarship recipient under this part be compensated
  at the same rate of pay and benefits and enjoy the same rights under
  applicable agreements with labor organizations and under State and local
  law as other law enforcement personnel of the same rank and tenure in the
  office of which the scholarship recipient is a member.
  `(g) SUPPLEMENTATION OF FUNDING- Funds received under this part shall
  only be used to supplement, and not to supplant, Federal, State, or local
  efforts for recruitment and education of law enforcement personnel.
`SEC. 2105. SCHOLARSHIPS.
  `(a) PERIOD OF AWARD- Scholarships awarded under this part shall be for
  a period of one academic year.
  `(b) USE OF SCHOLARSHIPS- Each individual awarded a scholarship under
  this may use such scholarship for educational expenses at any accredited
  institution of higher education.
`SEC. 2106. ELIGIBILITY.
  `An individual shall be eligible to receive a scholarship under this part
  if such individual has been employed in law enforcement for the 2-year
  period immediately preceding the date on which assistance is sought.
`SEC. 2107. STATE APPLICATION.
  `Each State desiring an allotment under section 2103 shall submit an
  application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and accompanied
  by such information as the Director may reasonably require. Each such
  application shall--
  `(1) contain assurances that the lead agency shall work in cooperation
  with the local law enforcement liaisons, representatives of police labor
  organizations and police management organizations, and other appropriate
  State and local agencies to develop and implement interagency agreements
  designed to carry out the provisions of this part;
  `(2) contain assurances that the State shall advertise the scholarship
  assistance provided under this part;
  `(3) contain assurances that the State shall screen and select law
  enforcement personnel for participation in the scholarship program under
  this part;
  `(4) contain assurances that the State shall make scholarship payments
  to institutions of higher education on behalf of individuals receiving
  financial assistance under this part;
  `(5) identify model curriculum and existing programs designed to meet the
  educational and professional needs of law enforcement personnel; and
  `(6) contain assurances that the State shall promote cooperative agreements
  with educational and law enforcement agencies to enhance law enforcement
  personnel recruitment efforts in high schools and community colleges.
`SEC. 2108. LOCAL APPLICATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each individual desiring a scholarship under this part
  shall submit an application to the State at such time, in such manner, and
  accompanied by such information as the State may reasonably require. Each
  such application shall describe the academic courses for which financial
  assistance is sought.
  `(b) PRIORITY- In awarding scholarships under this part, each State shall
  give priority to applications from individuals who are--
  `(1) members of racial, ethnic, or gender groups whose representation in
  the law enforcement agencies within the State is substantially less than in
  the population eligible for employment in law enforcement in the State; and
  `(2) pursuing an undergraduate degree.
`SEC. 2109. SCHOLARSHIP AGREEMENT.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each individual receiving a scholarship under this part
  shall enter into an agreement with the Director.
  `(b) CONTENTS- Each agreement described in subsection (a) shall--
  `(1) provide assurances that the individual shall work in a law enforcement
  position in the State which awarded such individual the scholarship in
  accordance with the service obligation described in subsection (c) after
  completion of such individual's academic courses leading to an associate,
  bachelor, or graduate degree;
  `(2) provide assurances that the individual will repay all of the
  scholarship assistance awarded under this title in accordance with such
  terms and conditions as the Director shall prescribe, in the event that
  the requirements of the agreement under paragraph (1) are not complied
  with except where the individual--
  `(A) dies;
  `(B) becomes physically or emotionally disabled, as established by the
  sworn affidavit of a qualified physician; or
  `(C) has been discharged in bankruptcy; and
  `(3) set forth the terms and conditions under which an individual receiving
  a scholarship under this part may seek employment in the field of law
  enforcement in a State other than the State which awarded such individual
  the scholarship under this part.
  `(c) SERVICE OBLIGATION- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), each
  individual awarded a scholarship under this part shall work in a law
  enforcement position in the State which awarded such individual the
  scholarship for a period of one month for each credit hour for which
  financial assistance is received under this part.
  `(2) For purposes of satisfying the requirement specified in paragraph
  (1), each individual awarded a scholarship under this part shall work in
  a law enforcement position in the State which awarded such individual the
  scholarship for not less than 6 months nor more than 2 years.
`SEC. 2110. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
  `Not later than April 1 of each fiscal year, the Director shall submit a
  report to the Attorney General, the President, the Speaker of the House
  of Representatives, and the President of the Senate. Such report shall--
  `(1) state the number of present and past scholarship recipients under
  this part, categorized according to the levels of educational study in
  which such recipients are engaged and the years of service such recipients
  have serve law enforcement;
  `(2) describe the geographic, racial, and gender dispersion of scholarship
  recipients; and
  `(3) describe the progress of the program and make recommendations for
  changes in the program.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.),
  as amended by section 701 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part U and inserting the following:
`Part U--Law Enforcement Scholarships
`Sec. 2101. Purposes.
`Sec. 2102. Definitions.
`Sec. 2103. Allotment.
`Sec. 2104. Program Established.
`Sec. 2105. Scholarships.
`Sec. 2106. Eligibility.
`Sec. 2107. State Application.
`Sec. 2108. Local Application.
`Sec. 2109. Scholarship Agreement.
`Sec. 2110. Reports to Congress.
`Part V--Transition; Effective Date; Repealer
`Sec. 2201. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
 SEC. 1233. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 702 of this Act, is amended
  by adding after paragraph (14) the following:
  `(15) There are authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for each of the
  fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996 to carry out the provisions
  of part U.'.
Subtitle E--Law Enforcement Family Support
SEC. 1241. LAW ENFORCEMENT FAMILY SUPPORT.
  Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42
  U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 1232 of this Act is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part V as part W;
  (2) by redesignating section 2201 as 2301; and
  (3) by inserting after part V the following:
`PART V--FAMILY SUPPORT
`SEC. 2201. DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
  `The Director shall--
  `(1) establish guidelines and oversee the implementation of family-friendly
  policies within law enforcement-related offices and divisions in the
  Department of Justice;
  `(2) study the effects of stress on law enforcement personnel and family
  well-being and disseminate the findings of such studies to Federal,
  State, and local law enforcement agencies, related organizations, and
  other interested parties;
  `(3) identify and evaluate model programs that provide support services
  to law enforcement personnel and families;
  `(4) provide technical assistance and training programs to develop stress
  reduction and family support to State and local law enforcement agencies;
  `(5) collect and disseminate information regarding family support, stress
  reduction, and psychological services to Federal, State, and local law
  enforcement agencies, law enforcement-related organizations, and other
  interested entities; and
  `(6) determine issues to be researched by the Bureau and by grant recipients.
`SEC. 2202. GENERAL AUTHORIZATION.
  `The Director is authorized to make grants to States and local law
  enforcement agencies to provide family support services to law enforcement
  personnel.
`SEC. 2203. USES OF FUNDS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- A State or local law enforcement agency that receives a
  grant under this Act shall use amounts provided under the grant to establish
  or improve training and support programs for law enforcement personnel.
  `(b) REQUIRED ACTIVITIES- A law enforcement agency that receives funds
  under this Act shall provide at least one of the following services:
  `(1) Counseling for law enforcement family members.
  `(2) Child care on a 24-hour basis.
  `(3) Marital and adolescent support groups.
  `(4) Stress reduction programs.
  `(5) Stress education for law enforcement recruits and families.
  `(c) OPTIONAL ACTIVITIES- A law enforcement agency that receives funds
  under this Act may provide the following services:
  `(1) Post-shooting debriefing for officers and their spouses.
  `(2) Group therapy.
  `(3) Hypertension clinics.
  `(4) Critical incident response on a 24-hour basis.
  `(5) Law enforcement family crisis telephone services on a 24-hour basis.
  `(6) Counseling for law enforcement personnel exposed to the human
  immunodeficiency virus.
  `(7) Counseling for peers.
  `(8) Counseling for families of personnel killed in the line of duty.
  `(9) Seminars regarding alcohol, drug use, gambling, and overeating.
`SEC. 2204. APPLICATIONS.
  `A law enforcement agency desiring to receive a grant under this part
  shall submit to the Director an application at such time, in such manner,
  and containing or accompanied by such information as the Director may
  reasonably require. Such application shall--
  `(1) certify that the law enforcement agency shall match all Federal
  funds with an equal amount of cash or in-kind goods or services from other
  non-Federal sources;
  `(2) include a statement from the highest ranking law enforcement official
  from the State or locality applying for the grant that attests to the need
  and intended use of services to be provided with grant funds; and
  `(3) assure that the Director or the Comptroller General of the United
  States shall have access to all records related to the receipt and use of
  grant funds received under this Act.
`SEC. 2205. AWARD OF GRANTS; LIMITATION.
  `(a) GRANT DISTRIBUTION- In approving grants under this part, the Director
  shall assure an equitable distribution of assistance among the States,
  among urban and rural areas of the United States, and among urban and
  rural areas of a State.
  `(b) DURATION- The Director may award a grant each fiscal year, not to
  exceed $100,000 to a State or local law enforcement agency for a period not
  to exceed 5 years. In any application from a State or local law enforcement
  agency for a grant to continue a program for the second, third, fourth,
  or fifth fiscal year following the first fiscal year in which a grant was
  awarded to such agency, the Director shall review the progress made toward
  meeting the objectives of the program. The Director may refuse to award a
  grant if the Director finds sufficient progress has not been made toward
  meeting such objectives, but only after affording the applicant notice
  and an opportunity for reconsideration.
  `(c) LIMITATION- Not more than 10 percent of grant funds received by a State
  or a local law enforcement agency may be used for administrative purposes.
`SEC. 2206. DISCRETIONARY RESEARCH GRANTS.
  `The Director may reserve 10 percent of funds to award research grants to
  a State or local law enforcement agency to study issues of importance in
  the law enforcement field as determined by the Director.
`SEC. 2207. REPORTS.
  `(a) REPORT FROM GRANT RECIPIENTS- A State or local law enforcement agency
  that receives a grant under this Act shall submit to the Director an annual
  report that includes--
  `(1) program descriptions;
  `(2) the number of staff employed to administer programs;
  `(3) the number of individuals who participated in programs; and
  `(4) an evaluation of the effectiveness of grant programs.
  `(b) REPORT FROM DIRECTOR- (1) The Director shall submit to the Congress
  a report not later than March 31 of each fiscal year.
  `(2) Such report shall contain--
  `(A) a description of the types of projects developed or improved through
  funds received under this Act;
  `(B) a description of exemplary projects and activities developed;
  `(C) a designation of the family relationship to the law enforcement
  personnel of individuals served; and
  `(D) the number of individuals served in each location and throughout
  the country.
`SEC. 2208. DEFINITIONS.
  `For purposes of this part--
  `(1) the term `family-friendly policy' means a policy to promote or
  improve the morale and well being of law enforcement personnel and their
  families; and
  `(2) the term `law enforcement personnel' means individuals employed by
  Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as
  amended by section 1232 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part V and inserting the following:
`PART V--FAMILY SUPPORT
`Sec. 2201. Duties of director.
`Sec. 2202. General authorization.
`Sec. 2203. Uses of funds.
`Sec. 2204. Applications.
`Sec. 2205. Award of grants; limitation.
`Sec. 2206. Discretionary research grants.
`Sec. 2207. Reports.
`Sec. 2208. Definitions.
`PART W--TRANSITION; EFFECTIVE DATE; REPEALS
`Sec. 2301. Continuation of rules, authorities, and privileges.'.
SEC. 1242. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
  1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 1233 of this Act,
  is amended by adding after paragraph (15) the following:
  `(16) There are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of the
  fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996. Not more than 20 percent
  of such funds may be used to accomplish the duties of the Director under
  section 2201 in part V of this Act, including administrative costs,
  research, and training programs.'.
TITLE XIII--FRAUD
SEC. 1301. MAIL FRAUD.
  Section 1341 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `or deposits or causes to be deposited any matter or thing
  whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or commercial interstate
  carrier,' after `Postal Service,'; and
  (2) by inserting `or such carrier' after `causes to be delivered by mail'.
SEC. 1302. FRAUD AND RELATED ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION WITH ACCESS DEVICES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1029 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following
  new paragraphs:
  `(5) knowingly, and with intent to defraud, effects transactions, with
  one or more access devices issued to another person, to receive anything
  of value aggregating $1,000 or more during any one-year period;
  `(6) without the authorization of the issuer of the access device, knowingly
  and with intent to defraud solicits a person for the purpose of--
  `(A) offering an access device; or
  `(B) selling information regarding or an application to obtain an access
  device; or
  `(7) without the authorization of the credit card system member or its agent,
  knowingly and with intent to defraud causes or arranges for another person
  to present to the member or its agent, for payment, one or more evidences
  or records of transactions made by an access device;'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS FOR SECTION 1029- Section 1029 of title 18,
  United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (3);
  (2) in subsection (c)(1) by striking `(a)(2) or (a)(3)' and inserting `(a)
  (2), (3), (5), (6), or (7)'; and
  (3) in subsection (e)--
  (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (5);
  (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (6) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(7) the term `credit card system member' means a financial institution
  or other entity that is a member of a credit card system, including an
  entity whether affiliated with or identical to the credit card issuer,
  that is the sole member of a credit card system.'.
SEC. 1303. CRIMES BY OR AFFECTING PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS OF INSURANCE
WHOSE ACTIVITIES AFFECT INTERSTATE COMMERCE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 47 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new sections:
`Sec. 1033. Crimes by or affecting persons engaged in the business of
insurance whose activities affect interstate commerce
  `(a)(1) Whoever is engaged in the business of insurance whose activities
  affect interstate commerce and, with the intent to deceive, knowingly makes
  any false material statement or report or willfully overvalues any land,
  property or security--
  `(A) in connection with reports or documents presented to any insurance
  regulatory official or agency or an agent or examiner appointed by such
  official or agency to examine the affairs of such person, and
  `(B) for the purpose of influencing the actions of such official or agency
  or such an appointed agent or examiner,
shall be punished as provided in paragraph (2).
  `(2) The punishment for an offense under paragraph (1) is a fine as
  established under this title or imprisonment for not more than 10 years,
  or both, except that the term of imprisonment shall be not more than
  15 years if the statement or report or overvaluing of land, property,
  or security jeopardizes the safety and soundness of an insurer.
  `(b)(1) Whoever--
  `(A) acting as, or being an officer, director, agent, or employee of,
  any person engaged in the business of insurance whose activities affect
  interstate commerce, or
  `(B) is engaged in the business of insurance whose activities affect
  interstate commerce or is involved (other than as an insured or beneficiary
  under a policy of insurance) in a transaction relating to the conduct of
  affairs of such a business,
willfully embezzles, abstracts, purloins, or misappropriates any of the moneys,
funds, premiums, credits, or other property of such person so engaged shall
be punished as provided in paragraph (2).
  `(2) The punishment for an offense under paragraph (1) is a fine as
  provided under this title or imprisonment for not more than 10 years,
  or both, except that if the embezzlement, abstraction, purloining,
  or willful misappropriation described in paragraph (1) jeopardizes the
  safety and soundness of an insurer, such imprisonment shall be not more
  than 15 years. If the amount or value embezzled, abstracted, purloined,
  or willfully misappropriated does not exceed $5,000, whoever violates
  paragraph (1) shall be fined as provided in this title or imprisoned not
  more than one year, or both.
  `(c)(1) Whoever is engaged in the business of insurance and whose activities
  affect interstate commerce or is involved (other than as an insured or
  beneficiary under a policy of insurance) in a transaction relating to the
  conduct of affairs of such a business, knowingly makes any false entry of
  material fact in any book, report, or statement of such person engaged in
  the business of insurance with intent to--
  `(A) deceive any person about the financial condition or solvency of such
  business, or
  `(B) to deceive any officer, employee, or agent of such person engaged in
  the business of insurance, any insurance regulatory official or agency,
  or any agent or examiner appointed by such official or agency to examine
  the affairs of such person,
shall be punished as provided in paragraph (2).
  `(2) The punishment for an offense under paragraph (1) is a fine as
  provided under this title or imprisonment for not more than 10 years,
  or both, except that if the false entry in any book, report, or statement
  of such person jeopardizes the safety and soundness of an insurer, such
  imprisonment shall be not more than 15 years.
  `(d) Whoever, by threats or force or by any threatening letter or
  communication, corruptly influences, obstructs, or impedes or endeavors
  corruptly to influence, obstruct, or impede the due and proper administration
  of the law under which any proceeding involving the business of insurance
  whose activities affect interstate commerce is pending before any insurance
  regulatory official or agency or any agent or examiner appointed by such
  official or agency to examine the affairs of a person engaged in the business
  of insurance whose activities affect interstate commerce, shall be fined
  as provided in this title or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.
  `(e)(1)(A) Whoever has been convicted of any criminal felony involving
  dishonesty or a breach of trust, or who has been convicted of an offense
  under this section, and who willfully engages in the business of insurance
  whose activities affect interstate commerce or participates in such business,
  shall be fined as provided in this title or imprisoned not more than 5
  years, or both.
  `(B) Whoever is engaged in the business of insurance whose activities
  affect interstate commerce and who willfully permits the participation
  described in subparagraph (A) shall be fined as provided in this title or
  imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(2) A person described in paragraph (1)(A) may engage in the business of
  insurance or participate in such business if such person has the written
  consent of any insurance regulatory official authorized to regulate the
  insurer, which consent specifically refers to this subsection.
  `(f) As used in this section--
  `(1) the term `business of insurance' means--
  `(A) the writing of insurance, or
  `(B) the reinsuring of risks underwritten by insurance companies,
by an insurer, including all acts necessary or incidental to such writing
or reinsuring and the activities of persons who act as, or are, officers,
directors, agents, or employees of insurers or who are other persons authorized
to act on behalf of such persons;
  `(2) the term `insurer' means a business which is organized as an insurance
  company under the laws of any State, whose primary and predominant business
  activity is the writing of insurance or the reinsuring of risks underwritten
  by insurance companies, and which is subject to supervision by the insurance
  official or agency of a State; or any receiver or similar official or
  any liquidating agent for such a company, in his or her capacity as such,
  and includes any person who acts as, or is, an officer, director, agent,
  or employee of that business;
  `(3) the term `interstate commerce' means--
  `(A) commerce within the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession
  of the United States;
  `(B) all commerce between any point in the State, territory, possession,
  or the District of Columbia and any point outside thereof;
  `(C) all commerce between points within the same State through any place
  outside such State; or
  `(D) all other commerce over which the United States has jurisdiction; and
  `(4) the term `State' includes any State, the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin
  Islands, American Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
`Sec. 1034. Civil penalties and injunctions for violations of section 1033
  `(a) The Attorney General may bring a civil action in the appropriate
  United States district court against any person who engages in conduct
  constituting an offense under section 1033 and, upon proof of such conduct
  by a preponderance of the evidence, such person shall be subject to a
  civil penalty of not more than $50,000 for each violation or the amount
  of compensation which the person received or offered for the prohibited
  conduct, whichever amount is greater. If the offense has contributed to the
  insolvency of an insurer which has been placed under the control of a State
  insurance regulatory agency or official, such penalty shall be remitted
  to the regulatory official of the insurer's State of domicile for the
  benefit of the policyholders, claimants, and creditors of such insurer. The
  imposition of a civil penalty under this subsection does not preclude any
  other criminal or civil statutory, common law, or administrative remedy,
  which is available by law to the United States or any other person.
  `(b) If the Attorney General has reason to believe that a person is
  engaged in conduct constituting an offense under section 1033, the Attorney
  General may petition an appropriate United States district court for an
  order prohibiting that person from engaging in such conduct. The court may
  issue an order prohibiting that person from engaging in such conduct if
  the court finds that the conduct constitutes such an offense. The filing
  of a petition under this section does not preclude any other remedy which
  is available by law to the United States or any other person.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter 47 of such title
  is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
`1033. Crimes by or affecting persons engaged in the business of insurance
whose activities affect interstate commerce.
`1034. Civil penalties and injunctions for violations of section 1033.'.
  (c) MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE- (1) TAMPERING
  WITH INSURANCE REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS- Section 1515(a)(1) of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (A) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (B);
  (B) by inserting `or' at the end of subparagraph (C); and
  (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
  `(D) a proceeding involving the business of insurance whose activities
  affect interstate commerce before any insurance regulatory official or
  agency or any agent or examiner appointed by such official or agency to
  examine the affairs of any person engaged in the business of insurance
  whose activities affect interstate commerce;'.
  (2) LIMITATIONS- Section 3293 of such title is amended by inserting `1033,'
  after `1014,'.
  (3) OBSTRUCTION OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS- Section 1510 of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(d)(1) Whoever--
  `(A) acting as, or being, an officer, director, agent or employee of
  a person engaged in the business of insurance whose activities affect
  interstate commerce, or
  `(B) is engaged in the business of insurance whose activities affect
  interstate commerce or is involved (other than as an insured or beneficiary
  under a policy of insurance) in a transaction relating to the conduct of
  affairs of such a business,
with intent to obstruct a judicial proceeding directly or indirectly,
notifies any other person about the existence or contents of a subpoena for
records of that person engaged in such business or information that has been
furnished to a Federal grand jury in response to that subpoena, shall be
fined as provided by this title or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(2) As used in paragraph (1), the term `subpoena for records' means a
  Federal grand jury subpoena for records that has been served relating to
  a violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, section 1033 of this title.'.
TITLE XIV--PROTECTION OF YOUTH
Subtitle A--Crimes Against Children
SEC. 1401. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against Children
  Registration Act'.
SEC. 1402. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
  (a) IN GENERAL-
  (1) STATE GUIDELINES- The Attorney General shall establish guidelines
  for State programs requiring any person who is convicted of a criminal
  offense against a victim who is a minor to register a current address with
  a designated State law enforcement agency for 10 years after release from
  prison, being placed on parole, or being placed on supervised release.
  (2) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `criminal offense
  against a victim who is a minor' includes--
  (A) kidnapping of a minor, except by a noncustodial parent;
  (B) false imprisonment of a minor, except by a noncustodial parent;
  (C) criminal sexual conduct toward a minor;
  (D) solicitation of minors to engage in sexual conduct;
  (E) use of minors in a sexual performance; or
  (F) solicitation of minors to practice prostitution.
  (b) REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT UPON RELEASE, PAROLE, OR SUPERVISED RELEASE-
  An approved State registration program established by this section shall
  contain the following requirements:
  (1) NOTIFICATION- If a person who is required to register under this
  section is released from prison, paroled, or placed on supervised release,
  a State prison officer shall--
  (A) inform the person of the duty to register;
  (B) inform the person that if the person changes residence address, the
  person shall give the new address to a designated State law enforcement
  agency in writing within 10 days;
  (C) obtain fingerprints and a photograph of the person if these have
  not already been obtained in connection with the offense that triggers
  registration; and
  (D) require the person to read and sign a form stating that the duty of
  the person to register under this section has been explained.
  (2) TRANSFER OF INFORMATION TO STATE AND THE F.B.I- The officer shall,
  within 3 days after receipt of information described in paragraph (1),
  forward it to a designated State law enforcement agency. The State
  law enforcement agency shall immediately enter the information into the
  appropriate State law enforcement record system and notify the appropriate
  law enforcement agency having jurisdiction where the person expects to
  reside. The State law enforcement agency shall also immediately transmit
  the conviction data and fingerprints to the Identification Division of
  the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  (3) ANNUAL VERIFICATION- On each anniversary of a person's initial
  registration date during the period in which the person is required to
  register under this section, the designated State law enforcement agency
  shall mail a nonforwardable verification form to the last reported address
  of the person. The person shall mail the verification form to the officer
  within 10 days after receipt of the form. The verification form shall
  be signed by the person, and state that the person still resides at the
  address last reported to the designated State law enforcement agency. If
  the person fails to mail the verification form to the designated State law
  enforcement agency within 10 days after receipt of the form, the person
  shall be in violation of this section unless the person proves that the
  person has not changed his or her residence address.
  (4) NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES OF CHANGES IN ADDRESS-
  Any change of address by a person required to register under this section
  reported to the designated State law enforcement agency shall immediately
  be reported to the appropriate law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
  where the person is residing.
  (c) REGISTRATION FOR 10 YEARS- A person required to register under this
  section shall continue to comply with this section until 10 years have
  elapsed since the person was released from imprisonment, or placed on
  parole or supervised release.
  (d) PENALTY- A person required to register under a State program established
  pursuant to this section who knowingly fails to so register and keep
  such registration current shall be subject to criminal penalties in such
  State. It is the sense of Congress that such penalties should include at
  least 6 months imprisonment.
  (e) PRIVATE DATA- The information provided under this section is private
  data on individuals and may be used for law enforcement purposes and
  confidential background checks conducted with fingerprints for child care
  services providers.
SEC. 1403. STATE COMPLIANCE.
  (a) COMPLIANCE DATE- Each State shall have 3 years from the date of the
  enactment of this Act in which to implement the provisions of this subtitle.
  (b) INELIGIBILITY FOR FUNDS- The allocation of funds under section 506
  of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3756) received by a State not complying with this subtitle
  3 years after the date of enactment of this Act shall be reduced by 25
  percent and the unallocated funds shall be reallocated to the States in
  compliance with this section.
Subtitle B--Parental Kidnapping
SEC. 1421. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `International Parental Kidnapping Crime
  Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1422. TITLE 18 AMENDMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 55 (relating to kidnapping) of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 1204. International parental kidnapping
  `(a) Whoever removes a child from the United States or retains a child
  (who has been in the United States) outside the United States with intent
  to obstruct the lawful exercise of parental rights shall be fined under
  this title or imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both.
  `(b) As used in this section--
  `(1) the term `child' means a person who has not attained the age of 16
  years; and
  `(2) the term `parental rights', with respect to a child, means the right
  to physical custody of the child--
  `(A) whether joint or sole (and includes visiting rights); and
  `(B) whether arising by operation of law, court order, or legally binding
  agreement of the parties.
  `(c) This section does not detract from The Hague Convention on the Civil
  Aspects of International Parental Child Abduction, done at The Hague on
  October 25, 1980.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  55 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
  following:
`1204. International parental kidnapping.'.
SEC. 1423. STATE COURT PROGRAMS REGARDING INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL
PARENTAL CHILD ABDUCTION.
  There is authorized to be appropriated $250,000 to carry out under the State
  Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701-10713) national, regional,
  and in-State training and educational programs dealing with criminal and
  civil aspects of interstate and international parental child abduction.
Subtitle C--Sexual Abuse Amendments
SEC. 1431. SEXUAL ABUSE AMENDMENTS.
  (a) DEFINITIONS OF SEXUAL ACT AND SEXUAL CONTACT FOR VICTIMS UNDER THE
  AGE OF 16- Paragraph (2) of section 2245 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking `or' after the semicolon;
  (2) in subparagraph (C) by striking `; and' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `; or'; and
  (3) by inserting a new subparagraph (D) as follows:
  `(D) the intentional touching, not through the clothing, of the genitalia
  of another person who has not attained the age of 16 years with an intent
  to abuse, humiliate, harass, degrade, or arouse or gratify the sexual
  desire of any person;'.
Subtitle D--Reporting of Crimes Against Children
SEC. 1441. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `National Child Abuser Identification
  Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1442. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this subtitle--
  (1) the term `child' means a person who is a child for the purposes of
  the criminal child abuse law of a State;
  (2) the term `child abuse' means the physical, psychological, or emotional
  injuring, sexual abuse or exploitation, neglectful treatment, or maltreatment
  of a child by any person in violation of the criminal child abuse law of
  a State;
  (3) the term `child abuser information' means the following facts concerning
  a person who has violated the criminal child abuse laws of a State--
  (A) name, social security number, age, race, sex, date of birth, height,
  weight, hair and eye color, fingerprints, and a brief description of the
  crime or crimes committed by the offender; and
  (B) any other information that the Federal Bureau of Investigation determines
  may be useful in identifying child abusers;
  (4) the term `criminal child abuse law of a State' means the law of a State
  that establishes criminal penalties for the commission of child abuse by
  a parent or other family member of a child or by any other person;
  (5) the term `State' means each of the States, the District of Columbia,
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
  and the Trust Territories of the Pacific; and
  (6) the term `State criminal history information repository' means a division
  or office of a State that acts as a central repository for criminal child
  abuse information.
SEC. 1443. PURPOSES.
  The purposes of this subtitle are--
  (1) to establish a national system through which current, accurate
  information concerning persons who have committed crimes of child abuse
  can be obtained from a centralized source;
  (2) to assist in the prevention of second incidents of child abuse by
  providing information about persons who have been convicted of a crime
  of child abuse to governmental agencies authorized to receive criminal
  history information; and
  (3) to understand the problem of child abuse in the United States by
  providing statistical data to the Department of Justice, the National Center
  on Child Abuse and Neglect, the Congress, and other interested parties.
SEC. 1444. REPORTING BY THE STATES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- A State criminal history information repository shall
  report child abuser information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  (b) GUIDELINES- (1) The Attorney General shall establish guidelines for the
  reporting of child abuser information, including procedures for carrying
  out the purposes of this subtitle.
  (2) The guidelines established under paragraph (1) shall require that
  the State shall ensure that reports of all convictions under the criminal
  child abuse law of the State are maintained by a State criminal history
  information repository and reported to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  (c) ANNUAL SUMMARY- The Attorney General shall publish an annual statistical
  summary of the child abuser information reported under this subtitle.
SEC. 1445. CONDITION ON GRANTS.
  Compliance with section 1444 shall be a condition to the receipt by a
  State of any grant, cooperative agreement, or other assistance under--
  (1) section 1404 of the Victims of Crime Act (42 U.S.C. 10603); and
  (2) the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.).
TITLE XV--MISCELLANEOUS DRUG CONTROL
SEC. 1501. ANABOLIC STEROIDS PENALTIES.
  Section 404 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 844) is amended
  by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
  `(b)(1) Whoever, being a physical trainer or adviser to an individual,
  endeavors to persuade or induce that individual to possess or use anabolic
  steroids in violation of subsection (a), shall be fined under title 18,
  United States Code, or imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both. If such
  individual has not attained the age of 18 years, the maximum imprisonment
  shall be 5 years.
  `(2) As used in this subsection, the term `physical trainer or adviser'
  means any professional or amateur coach, manager, trainer, instructor,
  or other such person, who provides any athletic or physical instruction,
  training, advice, assistance, or other such service to any person.'.
SEC. 1502. DRUG-FREE PUBLIC HOUSING.
  (a) PUBLIC HOUSING-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 419 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 860)
  is amended--
  (A) so that the heading reads as follows `DISTRIBUTION OR MANUFACTURING
  IN OR NEAR SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES, OR PUBLIC HOUSING'; and
  (B) by striking `or a playground' each place it appears and inserting
  `a playground, or a public housing project'.
  (2) The item relating to section 419 in the table of contents for the
  Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 is amended by
  inserting `, or public housing' after `colleges'.
  (b) DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES AND POSTING OF SIGNS- Section 5124 of the
  Public and Assisted Housing Drug Elimination Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 11903)
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (6), by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(8) with respect only to public housing, the determination by the
  public housing agency (in consultation with appropriate officials of
  the applicable local government and law enforcement agencies) of the
  geographical boundaries of the real property comprising public housing
  projects of the agency and the posting of signs identifying the property
  of the projects as drug-free zones.'.
  (c) NOTIFICATION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall
  require each public housing agency to post notices regarding the penalty
  imposed by the amendment made by subsection (a)(1) in common areas and at
  other appropriate locations in public housing projects of the agency. The
  notices shall contain statements--
  (A) of the offenses to which the treble penalty (under the amendment made
  by subsection (a)(1)) applies;
  (B) of the date on which the treble penalty takes effect; and
  (C) that the treble penalty applies to offenses committed on the property
  comprising the public housing projects of the agency.
  (2) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection, the terms `project',
  `public housing', and `public housing agency' have the meaning given the
  terms in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
 [Struck out->][ SEC. 1503. APPORTIONMENT OF NARCOTIC RAW MATERIAL IMPORTS.
   [Struck out->][ (a) Generally- The Attorney General may--
   [Struck out->][ (1) for calendar year 1992, reserve not more than 40
   percent for Turkey and 30 percent for India; and
   [Struck out->][ (2) for calendar year 1993, reserve not more than 40
   percent for Turkey and 20 percent for India;
of the total narcotic raw materials imports if the Attorney General determines
that these materials are in adequate supply and are priced competitively
with other authorized suppliers.
   [Struck out->][ (b) DEFINITION- AS USED IN THIS SECTION, THE TERM `NARCOTIC
   RAW MATERIALS' MEANS CRUDE OPIUM, POPPY STRAW, OR CONCENTRATE OF POPPY
   STRAW. ][<-Struck out]
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 1504. ][<-Struck out]  1503. ENHANCEMENT OF PENALTIES
FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING IN PRISONS.
  Section 1791 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c), by inserting before `Any' the following new sentence:
  `Any punishment imposed under subsection (b) for a violation of this section
  involving a controlled substance shall be consecutive to any other sentence
  imposed by any court for an offense involving such controlled substance.';
  (2) in subsection (d)(1)(A), by inserting after `a firearm or destructive
  device' the words `or a controlled substance in schedule I or II, other
  than marijuana or a controlled substance referred to in subparagraph (C)
  of this subsection';
  (3) in subsection (d)(1)(B), by inserting before `ammunition,' the following:
  `marijuana or a controlled substance in schedule III, other than a controlled
  substance referred to in subparagraph (C) of this subsection,';
  (4) in subsection (d)(1)(C), by inserting `methamphetamine, its salts,
  isomers, and salts of its isomers,' after `a narcotic drug,'; and
  (5) in subsection (d)(1)(D), by inserting `(A), (B), or' before `(C)'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 1505. ][<-Struck out]  1504. DRUG TESTING OF FEDERAL
OFFENDERS ON POST-CONVICTION RELEASE.
  (a) DRUG TESTING PROGRAM- (1) Chapter 229 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 3608. Drug testing of Federal offenders on post-conviction release
  `The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
  in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and
  Human Services, shall, as soon as is practicable after the effective date
  of this section, establish a program of drug testing of Federal offenders
  on post-conviction release. The program shall include such standards and
  guidelines as the Director may determine necessary to ensure the reliability
  and accuracy of the drug testing programs. In each district where it is
  feasible to do so, the chief probation officer shall arrange for the drug
  testing of defendants on post-conviction release pursuant to a conviction for
  a felony or other offense described in section 3563(a)(4) of this title.'.
  (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 229 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`3608. Drug testing of Federal offenders on post-conviction release.'.
  (b) Drug Testing Condition for Probation-
  (1) Section 3563(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (2), by striking out `and';
  (B) in paragraph (3), by striking out the period and inserting `; and'; and
  (C) by adding after paragraph (3) the following:
  `(4) for a felony, an offense involving a firearm as defined in section
  921 of this title, a drug or narcotic offense as defined in section 404(c)
  of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 844(c)), or a crime of violence
  as defined in section 16 of this title, that the defendant refrain from any
  unlawful use of the controlled substance and submit to periodic drug tests
  (as determined by the court) for use of a controlled substance. This latter
  condition may be suspended or ameliorated upon request of the Director of
  the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, or the Director's
  designee. In addition, the Court may decline to impose this condition for
  any individual defendant, if the defendant's presentence report or other
  reliable sentencing information indicates a low risk of future substance
  abuse by the defendant. A defendant who tests positive may be detained
  pending verification of a drug test result.'.
  (2) DRUG TESTING FOR SUPERVISED RELEASE- Section 3583(d) of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by inserting after the first sentence
  the following: `For a defendant convicted of a felony or other offense
  described in section 3563(a)(4) of this title, the court shall also order,
  as an explicit condition of supervised release, that the defendant refrain
  from any unlawful use of a controlled substance and submit to periodic drug
  tests (as determined by the court), for use of a controlled substance. This
  latter condition may be suspended or ameliorated as provided in section
  3563(a)(4) of this title.'.
  (3) DRUG TESTING IN CONNECTION WITH PAROLE- Section 4209(a) of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by inserting after the first sentence
  the following: `If the parolee has been convicted of a felony or other
  offense described in section 3563(a)(4) of this title, the Commission shall
  also impose as a condition of parole that the parolee refrain from any
  unlawful use of a controlled substance and submit to periodic drug tests
  (as determined by the Commission) for use of a controlled substance. This
  latter condition may be suspended or ameliorated as provided in section
  3563(a)(4) of this title.'.
  (c) REVOCATION OF PAROLE- Section 4214(f) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by inserting after `substance' the following: `, or who unlawfully
  uses a controlled substance or refuses to cooperate in drug testing imposed
  as a condition of parole,'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 1506. ][<-Struck out]  1505. DRUG DISTRIBUTION TO
PREGNANT WOMEN.
  Section 418 of the Controlled Substances Act is amended by inserting `,
  or to a woman while she is pregnant,' after `to a person under twenty-one
  years of age' in subsection (a) and subsection (b).
TITLE XVI--FAIRNESS IN DEATH SENTENCING ACT OF 1991
SEC. 1601. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Fairness in Death Sentencing Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1602. AMENDMENT TO TITLE 28.
  (a) PROCEDURE- Part VI of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 177--RACIALLY DISCRIMINATORY CAPITAL SENTENCING
`Sec.
`3501. Prohibition against the execution of a sentence of death imposed on
the basis of race.
`3502. Data on death penalty cases.
`3503. Enforcement of the chapter.
`3504. Construction of chapter.
`Sec. 3501. Prohibition against the execution of a sentence of death imposed
on the basis of race
  `(a) IN GENERAL- No person shall be put to death under color of State or
  Federal law in the execution of a sentence that was imposed based on race.
  `(b) INFERENCE OF RACE AS THE BASIS OF DEATH SENTENCE- An inference that
  race was the basis of a death sentence is established if valid evidence is
  presented demonstrating that, at the time the death sentence was imposed,
  race was a statistically significant factor in decisions to seek or to
  impose the sentence of death in the jurisdiction in question.
  `(c) RELEVANT EVIDENCE- Evidence relevant to establish an inference that
  race was the basis of a death sentence may include evidence that death
  sentences were, at the time pertinent under subsection (b), being imposed
  significantly more frequently in the jurisdiction in question--
  `(1) upon persons of one race than upon persons of another race; or
  `(2) as punishment for capital offenses against persons of one race than
  as punishment for capital offenses against persons of another race.
  `(d) VALIDITY OF EVIDENCE PRESENTED TO ESTABLISH AN INFERENCE- If statistical
  evidence is presented to establish an inference that race was the basis of
  a sentence of death, the court shall determine the validity of the evidence
  and if it provides a basis for the inference. Such evidence must take into
  account, to the extent it is compiled and publicly made available, evidence
  of the statutory aggravating factors of the crimes involved, and shall
  include comparisons of similar cases involving persons of different races.
  `(e) REBUTTAL- If an inference that race was the basis of a death sentence
  is established under subsection (b), the death sentence may not be carried
  out unless the government rebuts the inference by a preponderance of the
  evidence. The government cannot rely on mere assertions that it did not
  intend to discriminate or that the cases fit the statutory criteria for
  imposition of the death penalty.
`Sec. 3502. Access to data on death eligible cases
  `Data collected by public officials concerning factors relevant to the
  imposition of the death sentence shall be made publicly available.
`Sec. 3503. Enforcement of the chapter
  `In any proceeding brought under section 2254, the evidence of a prima facie
  case supporting a claim under this chapter may be presented in an evidentiary
  hearing and need not be set forth in the petition. Notwithstanding section
  2254, no determination on the merits of a factual issue made by a State
  court pertinent to any claim under section 2921 shall be presumed to be
  correct unless--
  `(1) the State is in compliance with section 2922;
  `(2) the determination was made in a proceeding in a State court in which
  the person asserting the claim was afforded rights to the appointment of
  counsel and to the furnishing of investigative, expert and other services
  necessary for the adequate development of the claim; and
  `(3) the determination is one which is otherwise entitled to be presumed
  to be correct under the criteria specified in section 2254.
`Sec. 3504. Construction of chapter
  `Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to affect in one
  way or the other the lawfulness of any sentence of death that does not
  violate section 3501 of this title.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CHAPTERS- The table of chapters of part VI of
  title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the
  following new item:
3501.'.
SEC. 1603. ACTIONS BEFORE ENACTMENT.
  No person shall be barred from raising any claim under section 3501 of title
  28, United States Code, as added by this Act, on the ground of having failed
  to raise or to prosecute the same or a similar claim before the enactment
  of the Act, nor by reason of any adjudication rendered before that enactment.
TITLE  XVII--MISCELLANEOUS CRIME CONTROL
Subtitle A--General
SEC. 1701. RECEIVING THE PROCEEDS OF EXTORTION OR KIDNAPPING.
  (a) CHAPTER 41 AMENDMENT- Chapter 41 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 880. Receiving the proceeds of extortion
  `Whoever receives, possesses, conceals, or disposes of any money or other
  property which was obtained from the commission of any offense under
  this chapter that is punishable by imprisonment for more than one year,
  knowing the same to have been unlawfully obtained, shall be fined under
  this title or imprisoned not more than three years, or both.'; and
  (2) in the table of sections, by adding at the end the following item:
`880. Receiving the proceeds of extortion.'.
  (b) SECTION 1202 AMENDMENT- Section 1202 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by designating the existing matter as subsection `(a)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
  `(b) Whoever transports, transmits, or transfers in interstate or foreign
  commerce any proceeds of a kidnapping punishable under State law by
  imprisonment for more than one year, or receives, possesses, conceals, or
  disposes of any such proceeds after they have crossed a State or United
  States boundary, knowing the proceeds to have been unlawfully obtained,
  shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years,
  or both.
  `(c) For purposes of this section, the term `State' has the meaning set
  forth in section 245(d) of this title.'.
SEC. 1702. RECEIVING THE PROCEEDS OF A POSTAL ROBBERY.
  Section 2114 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by designating the existing matter as subsection (a); and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
  `(b) Whoever receives, possesses, conceals, or disposes of any money
  or other property which has been obtained in violation of this section,
  knowing the same to have been unlawfully obtained, shall be fined under
  this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.'.
SEC. 1703. CRIMINAL STREET GANGS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  after chapter 25 the following:
`CHAPTER 26--CRIMINAL STREET GANGS
`Sec.
`521.  Criminal street gangs.
`Sec. 521. Criminal street gangs
  `(a) Whoever, under the circumstances described in subsection (c) of this
  section, commits an offense described in subsection (b) of this section,
  shall, in addition to any other sentence authorized by law, be sentenced
  to a term of imprisonment of not more than 10 years and may also be fined
  under this title. Such sentence of imprisonment shall run consecutively
  to any other sentence imposed.
  `(b) The offenses referred to in subsection (a) of this section are--
  `(1) any Federal felony involving a controlled substance (as defined in
  section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act);
  `(2) any Federal felony crime of violence;
  `(3) any felony violation of the Controlled Substances Act, the Controlled
  Substances Import and Export Act or the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act; or
  `(4) a conspiracy to commit any of the offenses described in paragraphs
  (1) through (3) of this subsection.
  `(c) The circumstances referred to in subsection (a) of this section are
  that the offense described in subsection (b) was committed as a member of,
  on behalf of, or in association with a criminal street gang and that person
  has been convicted, within the past 5 years for--
  `(1) any offense listed in subsection (b) of this section;
  `(2) any State offense--
  `(A) involving a controlled  substance (as defined in section 102 of the
  Controlled Substances Act); or
  `(B) that is a crime of violence;
for which the maximum penalty is more than 1 year's imprisonment; or
  `(3) any Federal or State offense that involves the theft or destruction of
  property for which the maximum penalty is more than 1 year's imprisonment; or
  `(4) a conspiracy to commit any of the offenses described in paragraphs
  (1) through (3) of this subsection.
  `(d) For purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `criminal street gang' means any group, club, organization,
  or association of 5 or more persons--
  `(A) whose members engage or have engaged within the past 5 years, in a
  continuing series of violations of any offense treated in subsection (b); and
  `(B) whose activities affect interstate or foreign commerce; and
  `(2) the term `conviction' includes a finding, under State or Federal law,
  that a person has committed an act of juvenile delinquency involving a
  violent or controlled substances felony.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of chapters for part I of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to
  chapter 25 the following:
521'.
SEC. 1704. UNDERCOVER OPERATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 1 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 21. Stolen or counterfeit nature of property for certain crimes defined
  `(a) Wherever in this title it is an element of an offense that--
  `(1) any property was embezzled, robbed, stolen, converted, taken, altered,
  counterfeited, falsely made, forged, or obliterated; and
  `(2) the defendant knew that the property was of such character;
such element may be established by proof that the defendant, after or as
a result of an official representation as to the nature of the property,
believed the property to be embezzled, robbed, stolen, converted, taken,
altered, counterfeited, falsely made, forged, or obliterated.
  `(b) For purposes of this section, the term `official representation'
  means any representation made by a Federal law enforcement officer (as
  defined in section 115) or by another person at the direction or with the
  approval of such an officer.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  1 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
  following:
`21. Stolen or counterfeit nature of property for certain crimes defined.'.
SEC. 1705. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR DRUG-DEALING IN `DRUG-FREE' ZONES.
  Section 419 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 860) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking `one year' and inserting `3 years'; and
  (2) in subsection (b), by striking `three years' each place it appears
  and inserting `5 years'.
SEC. 1706. F.B.I. ACCESS TO TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER INFORMATION.
  (a) REQUIRED CERTIFICATION- Section 2709(b) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(b) REQUIRED CERTIFICATION- The Director of the Federal Bureau of
  Investigation, or his designee in a position not lower than Deputy Assistant
  Director, may--
  `(1) request the name, address, length of service, and toll billing records
  of a person or entity if the Director (or his designee in a position not
  lower than Deputy Assistant Director) certifies in writing to the wire or
  electronic communication service provider to which the request is made that--
  `(A) the name, address, length of service, and toll billing records sought
  are relevant to an authorized foreign counterintelligence investigation; and
  `(B) there are specific and articulable facts giving reason to believe
  that the person or entity to whom the information sought pertains is a
  foreign power or an agent of a foreign power as defined in section 101 of
  the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801); and
  `(2) request the name, address, and length of service of a person or
  entity if the Director (or his designee in a position not lower than
  Deputy Assistant Director) certifies in writing to the wire or electronic
  communication service provider to which the request is made that--
  `(A) the information sought is relevant to an authorized foreign
  counterintelligence investigation; and
  `(B) there are specific and articulable facts giving reason to believe that
  communication facilities registered in the name of the person or entity have
  been used, through the services of such provider, in communication with--
  `(i) an individual who is engaging or has engaged in international terrorism
  as defined in section 101(c) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
  Act or clandestine intelligence activities that involve or may involve a
  violation of the criminal statutes of the United States; or
  `(ii) a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power under circumstances
  giving reason to believe that the communication concerned international
  terrorism as defined in section 101(c) of the Foreign Intelligence
  Surveillance Act or clandestine intelligence activities that involve or
  may involve a violation of the criminal statutes of the United States.'.
  (b) REPORT TO JUDICIARY COMMITTEES- Section 2709(e) of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by adding after `Senate' the following: `, and
  the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the
  Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate,'.
SEC. 1707. EXTENSION OF PROTECTION OF CIVIL RIGHTS STATUTES.
  (a) SECTION 241- Section 241 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by striking `inhabitant of' and inserting `person in'.
  (b) SECTION 242- Section 242 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `inhabitant of' and inserting `person in'; and
  (2) by striking `such inhabitant' and inserting `such person'.
SEC. 1708. INCREASED PENALTY FOR TRAVEL ACT CRIMES INVOLVING VIOLENCE.
  Section 1952(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `and thereafter performs or attempts to perform any of the acts specified
  in subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3), shall be fined not more than $10,000
  or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `and thereafter performs or attempts to perform (1) any of
  the acts specified in paragraphs (1) and (3) shall be fined under this
  title or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both, or (2) any
  of the acts specified in paragraph (2) shall be fined under this title
  or imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both, and if death results
  shall be imprisoned for any term of years or for life'.
SEC. 1709. MISUSE OF INITIALS `DEA'.
  Section 709 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting the
  following before the paragraph beginning `Shall be punished': `Whoever,
  except with the written permission of the Administrator of the Drug
  Enforcement Administration, knowingly uses the words `Drug Enforcement
  Administration' or the initials `DEA' or any colorable imitation of such
  words or initials, in connection with any advertisement, circular, book,
  pamphlet, software or other publication, play, motion picture, broadcast,
  telecast, or other production, in a manner reasonably calculated to convey
  the impression that such advertisement, circular, book, pamphlet, software
  or other publication, play, motion picture, broadcast, telecast, or other
  production is approved, endorsed, or authorized by the Drug Enforcement
  Administration;'.
SEC. 1710. DEFINITION OF SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION IN BANK ROBBERY STATUTE.
  Section 2113 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end the following:
  `(h) As used in this section, the term `savings and loan association' means
  (1) any Federal savings association or State savings association (as defined
  in section 3(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)),
  having accounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and
  (2) any corporation described in section 3(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(1)(C)) which is operating under the laws
  of the United States.'.
SEC. 1711. CONFORMING DEFINITION OF `1-YEAR PERIOD' IN 18 U.S.C. 1516.
  Section 1516(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' before `the term'; and
  (2) by inserting before the period the following: ` and (2) the term `in any
  1 year period' has the meaning given to the term `in any one-year period'
  in section 666 of this title.'.
SEC. 1712. DEFINITION OF LIVESTOCK.
  Section 2311 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
  the second paragraph relating to the definition of `cattle' the following:
  `Livestock' means any domestic animals raised for home use, consumption,
  or profit, such as horses, pigs, goats, fowl, sheep, and cattle, or the
  carcasses thereof;'.
SEC. 1713. FOREIGN MURDER OF UNITED STATES NATIONALS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 51 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 1118. Foreign murder of United States nationals
  `(a) Whoever, being a national of the United States, kills or attempts
  to kill a national of the United States while such national is outside
  the United States but within the jurisdiction of another country shall be
  punished as provided under sections 1111, 1112, and 1113 of this title.
  `(b) No prosecution may be instituted against any person under this
  section except upon the written approval of the Attorney General, the
  Deputy Attorney General, or an Assistant Attorney General, which function
  of approving prosecutions may not be delegated. No prosecution shall be
  approved if prosecution has been previously undertaken by a foreign country
  for the same act or omission.
  `(c) No prosecution shall be approved under this section unless the Attorney
  General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, determines that the
  act or omission took place in a country in which the person is no longer
  present, and the country lacks the ability to lawfully secure the person's
  return. A determination by the Attorney General under this subsection is
  not subject to judicial review.
  `(d) In the course of the enforcement of this section and notwithstanding
  any other provision of law, the Attorney General may request assistance
  from any Federal, State, local, or foreign agency, including the Army,
  Navy, and Air Force.
  `(e) As used in this section, the term `national of the United States'
  has the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration
  and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)).'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 1117 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by striking `or 1116' and inserting `1116, or 1118'.
  (c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  51 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
  following new item:
`1118. Foreign Murder of United States Nationals.'.
SEC. 1714. NATIONAL BASELINE STUDY ON CAMPUS SEXUAL ASSAULT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General shall, by contract with an appropriate
  entity, provide for a national base study to research the incidence of
  campus sexual assault and explore the adequacy of college and university
  policies and practices in protecting victims' legal rights, as well as
  the public interest in prosecuting criminals and preventing future crimes.
  (b) COMPONENTS OF THE REPORT- The report described in subsection (a)
  shall include an analysis of--
  (1) the number of reported (and estimated number of unreported) allegations
  of sexual assault occurring on college and university campuses, and to
  whom the allegations are reported--campus authorities, sexual assault
  victim service entities, or local criminal authorities;
  (2) the number of campus sexual assault allegations reported to campus
  authorities which are reported to criminal authorities;
  (3) the percentage of campus sexual assault allegations compared to noncampus
  sexual assault allegations which result in eventual criminal prosecution;
  (4) State laws or regulations pertaining specifically to campus sexual
  assaults;
  (5) the adequacy of campus policies and practices in protecting the legal
  rights and interests of sexual assault victims and the accused, including
  consideration of--
  (A) practices which might discourage the reporting of sexual assaults
  to local criminal authorities, or result in any form of obstruction of
  justice, and thus undermine the public interest in prosecuting perpetrators
  of sexual assault; and
  (B) the ability of campus disciplinary hearings to properly address
  allegations of sexual assault;
  (6) whether colleges and universities take adequate measures to ensure
  victims are free of unwanted contact with alleged assailants;
  (7) why colleges and universities are sued in civil court regarding sexual
  assaults, the resolution of these cases, and measures that can be taken
  to prevent future lawsuits;
  (8) the different ways in which colleges and universities respond to
  allegations of sexual assault, including an assessment of which programs
  work the best;
  (9) recommendations to redress concerns raised in this report; and
  (10) any other issues or questions the Attorney General deems appropriate
  to this study.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION- There shall be authorized $200,000 to fund the competitive
  grant or grants to conduct this study, which shall be awarded to persons
  or organizations with expertise in the legal aspects of campus violence.
SEC. 1715. GANG INVESTIGATION COORDINATION AND INFORMATION COLLECTION.
  (a) COORDINATION- The Attorney General (or his designee), in consultation
  with the Secretary of the Treasury (or his designee), shall develop a
  national strategy to coordinate gang-related investigations by Federal
  law enforcement agencies.
  (b) DATA COLLECTION- The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
  shall acquire and collect information on incidents of gang violence for
  inclusion in an annual uniform crime report.
  (c) REPORT- The Attorney General shall prepare a report on national gang
  violence outlining the strategy developed under subsection (a) to be
  submitted to the President and Congress by July 1, 1992.
  (d) AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDS- There are authorized to be appropriated for
  fiscal year 1992 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
SEC. 1716. TERRITORIAL SEA EXTENDING TO TWELVE MILES INCLUDED IN SPECIAL
MARITIME AND TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
  The Congress hereby declares that all the territorial sea of the United
  States, as defined by Presidential Proclamation 5928 of December 27,
  1988, is part of the United States, subject to its sovereignty, and, for
  purposes of Federal criminal jurisdiction, is within the special maritime
  and territorial jurisdiction of the United States wherever that term is
  used in title 18, United States Code.
SEC. 1717. ASSIMILATED CRIMES IN EXTENDED TERRITORIAL SEA.
  Section 13 of title 18, United States Code (relating to the adoption of State
  laws for areas within Federal jurisdiction), is amended by inserting after
  `title' in subsection (a) the phrase `or on, above, or below any portion
  of the territorial sea of the United States not within the territory of any
  State, Territory, Possession, or District', and by inserting the following
  new subsection (c) at the end thereof:
  `(c) Whenever any waters of the territorial sea of the United States lie
  outside the territory of any State, Territory, Possession, or District,
  such waters (including the airspace above and the seabed and subsoil below,
  and artificial islands and fixed structures erected thereon) shall be
  deemed for purposes of subsection (a) to lie within the area of that State,
  Territory, Possession, or District it would lie within if the boundaries
  of such State, Territory, Possession, or District were extended seaward
  to the outer limit of the territorial sea of the United States.'.
SEC. 1718. JURISDICTION OVER CRIMES AGAINST UNITED STATES NATIONALS ON
CERTAIN FOREIGN SHIPS.
  Section 7 of title 18, United States Code (relating to the special maritime
  and territorial jurisdiction of the United States), is amended by inserting
  at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(8) To the extent permitted by international law, any foreign vessel
  during a voyage having a scheduled departure from or arrival in the United
  States with respect to an offense committed by or against a national of
  the United States.'.
SEC. 1719. CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO OBEY ORDER TO LAND.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 109 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end the following new section:
`Sec. 2237. Order to land
  `(a)(1) A pilot or operator of an aircraft that has crossed the border of
  the United States, or an aircraft subject to the jurisdiction of the United
  States operating outside the United States, who intentionally fails to obey
  an order to land by an authorized Federal law enforcement officer who is
  enforcing the laws of the United States relating to controlled substances,
  as that term is defined in section 102(6) of the Controlled Substances Act,
  or section 1956 or 1957 of this title (relating to money laundering), shall
  be fined under this title, or imprisoned not more than three years, or both.
  `(2) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Transportation,
  in consultation with the Attorney General, shall make rules governing the
  means by which a Federal law enforcement officer may communicate an order
  to land to a pilot or operator of an aircraft.
  `(3) This section does not limit the authority of a customs officer under
  section 581 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or another law the Customs Service
  enforces or administers, or the authority of a Federal law enforcement
  officer under a law of the United States to order an aircraft to land.
  `(b) A foreign nation may consent or waive objection to the United States
  enforcing the laws of the United States by radio, telephone, or similar
  oral or electronic means. Consent or waiver may be proven by certification
  of the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee.
  `(c) For purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `aircraft subject to the jurisdiction of the United States'
  includes--
  `(A) an aircraft located over the United States or the customs waters of
  the United States;
  `(B) an aircraft located in the airspace of a foreign nation, when that
  nation consents to United States enforcement of United States law; and
  `(C) over the high seas, an aircraft without nationality, an aircraft of
  the United States registry, or an aircraft registered in a foreign nation
  that has consented or waived objection to the United States enforcement
  of United States law; and
  `(2) the term `Federal law enforcement officer' has the same meaning that
  term has in section 115 of this title.
  `(d) An aircraft that is used in violation of this section is liable in
  rem for a fine imposed under this section.
  `(e) An aircraft that is used in violation of this section may be seized
  and forfeited. The laws relating to seizure and forfeiture for violation
  of the customs laws, including available defenses such as innocent owner
  provisions, apply to aircraft seized or forfeited under this section.
  `(f) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Transportation
  may delegate Federal law enforcement officer seizure and forfeiture
  responsibilities under this section to other law enforcement officers.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  109 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
  following new item:
`2237. Order to land.'.
SEC. 1720. CODIFICATION OF EXCEPTION TO EXCLUSIONARY RULE.
  Evidence which is obtained as a result of search or seizure shall not be
  excluded in a proceeding in a court of the United States on the ground
  that the search or seizure was in violation of the fourth amendment to the
  Constitution of the United States if the evidence was obtained in reasonable
  reliance on a search warrant issued by a detached and neutral magistrate
  even though the warrant is ultimately determined to be invalid, unless--
  (1) the judicial officer in issuing the warrant was materially misled by
  information in an affidavit that the affiant knew was false or would have
  known was false except for his reckless disregard of the truth;
  (2) the warrant was based on an affidavit so lacking in indicia of probable
  cause as to render official belief in its existence entirely unreasonable; or
  (3) the warrant is so facially deficient that the executing officers could
  not reasonably presume it to be valid.
SEC. 1721. ADDITION OF ATTEMPTED ROBBERY, KIDNAPPING, SMUGGLING, AND PROPERTY
DAMAGE OFFENSES TO ELIMINATE INCONSISTENCIES AND GAPS IN COVERAGE.
  (a)(1) Section 2111 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or attempts to take' after `takes'.
  (2) Section 2112 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or attempts to rob' after `robs'.
  (3) Section 2114 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or attempts to rob' after `robs'.
  (b) Section 1201(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `Whoever attempts to violate subsection (a)(4) or (a)(5)' and inserting
  `Whoever attempts to violate subsection (a)'.
  (c) Section 545 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or attempts to smuggle or clandestinely introduce' after `smuggles,
  or clandestinely introduces'.
  (d)(1) Section 1361 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (A) by inserting `or attempts to commit any of the foregoing offenses'
  before `shall be punished', and
  (B) by inserting `or attempted damage' after `damage' each place it appears.
  (2) Section 1362 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or attempts willfully or maliciously to injure or destroy' after `willfully
  or maliciously injures or destroys'.
  (3) Section 1366 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (A) by inserting `or attempts to damage' after `damages' each place
  it appears;
  (B) by inserting `or attempts to cause' after `causes'; and
  (C) by inserting `or would if the attempted offense had been completed
  have exceeded' after `exceeds' each place it appears.
SEC. 1722. CLARIFYING AMENDMENT REGARDING SCOPE OF PROHIBITION AGAINST
GAMBLING ON SHIPS IN INTERNATIONAL WATERS.
  The first paragraph of section 1081 of title 18, United States Code, is
  amended by adding at the end the following: `Such term does not include a
  vessel with respect to gambling aboard such vessel beyond the territorial
  waters of the United States during a covered voyage (as defined in section
  4472 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986).'.
SEC. 1723. BINDOVER SYSTEM FOR CERTAIN VIOLENT JUVENILES.
  Section 501(b) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3751), as amended by section 1002, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (21) by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (22) by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) inserting after paragraph (22) the following:
  `(23) programs which address the need for effective bindover systems for
  the prosecution of violent 16- and 17-year olds in courts with jurisdiction
  over adults for the crimes of--
  `(A) murder in the first degree;
  `(B) murder in the second degree;
  `(C) attempted murder;
  `(D) armed robbery when armed with a firearm;
  `(E) aggravated battery or assault when armed with a firearm;
  `(F) criminal sexual penetration when armed with a firearm; and
  `(G) drive-by shootings as described in section 922(u) of title 18, United
  States Code.'.
SEC. 1724. INCREASED PENALTIES FOR RECIDIVIST SEX OFFENDERS.
  (a) Section 2245 of title 18, United States Code, is redesignated section
  2246.
  (b) Chapter 109A of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  the following new section after section 2244:
`Sec. 2245. Penalties for subsequent offenses
  `Any person who violates a provision of this chapter after a prior conviction
  under a provision of this chapter or the law of a State (as defined in
  section 513 of this title) for conduct proscribed by this chapter has
  become final is punishable by a term of imprisonment up to twice that
  otherwise authorized.'.
  (c) The table of sections for chapter 109A of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by--
  (1) striking `2245' and inserting in lieu thereof `2246'; and
  (2) inserting the following after the item relating to section 2244:
`2245. Penalties for subsequent offenses.'.
Subtitle B--Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention
SEC. 1731. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Act'.
SEC. 1732. MOTOR VEHICLE THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- Chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code,
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 160. Motor vehicle theft prevention program
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of
  this section, the Attorney General shall develop, in cooperation with
  the States, a national voluntary motor vehicle theft prevention program
  (in this section referred to as the `program') under which--
  `(1) the owner of a motor vehicle may voluntarily sign a consent form with
  a participating State or locality in which the motor vehicle owner--
  `(A) states that the vehicle is not normally operated under certain
  specified conditions; and
  `(B) agrees to--
  `(i) display program decals or devices on the owner's vehicle; and
  `(ii) permit law enforcement officials in any State to stop the motor
  vehicle and take reasonable steps to determine whether the vehicle is
  being operated by or with the permission of the owner, if the vehicle is
  being operated under the specified conditions; and
  `(2) participating States and localities authorize law enforcement officials
  in the State or locality to stop motor vehicles displaying program decals
  or devices under specified conditions and take reasonable steps to determine
  whether the vehicle is being operated by or with the permission of the owner.
  `(b) Uniform Decal or Device Designs-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The motor vehicle theft prevention program developed
  pursuant to this section shall include a uniform design or designs for
  decals or other devices to be displayed by motor vehicles participating
  in the program.
  `(2) TYPE OF DESIGN- The uniform design shall--
  `(A) be highly visible; and
  `(B) explicitly state that the motor vehicle to which it is affixed may
  be stopped under the specified conditions without additional grounds for
  establishing a reasonable suspicion that the vehicle is being operated
  unlawfully.
  `(c) VOLUNTARY CONSENT FORM- The voluntary consent form used to enroll in
  the program shall--
  `(1) clearly state that participation in the program is voluntary;
  `(2) clearly explain that participation in the program means that, if the
  participating vehicle is being operated under the specified conditions,
  law enforcement officials may stop the vehicle and take reasonable steps to
  determine whether it is being operated by or with the consent of the owner,
  even if the law enforcement officials have no other basis for believing
  that the vehicle is being operated unlawfully;
  `(3) include an express statement that the vehicle is not normally
  operated under the specified conditions and that the operation of the
  vehicle under those conditions would provide sufficient grounds for a
  prudent law enforcement officer to reasonably believe that the vehicle
  was not being operated by or with the consent of the owner; and
  `(4) include any additional information that the Attorney General may
  reasonably require.
  `(d) SPECIFIED CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH STOPS MAY BE AUTHORIZED-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General shall promulgate rules establishing
  the conditions under which participating motor vehicles may be authorized
  to be stopped under this section. These conditions may include--
  `(A) the operation of the vehicle during certain hours of the day; or
  `(B) the operation of the vehicle under other circumstances that would
  provide a sufficient basis for establishing a reasonable suspicion that
  the vehicle was not being operated by the owner, or with the consent of
  the owner.
  `(2) MORE THAN ONE SET OF CONDITIONS- The Attorney General may establish
  more than one set of conditions under which participating motor vehicles may
  be stopped. If more than one set of conditions is established, a separate
  consent form and a separate design for program decals or devices shall be
  established for each set of conditions. The Attorney General may choose
  to satisfy the requirement of a separate design for program decals or
  devices under this paragraph by the use of a design color that is clearly
  distinguishable from other design colors.
  `(3) NO NEW CONDITIONS WITHOUT CONSENT- After the program has begun, the
  conditions under which a vehicle may be stopped if affixed with a certain
  decal or device design may not be expanded without the consent of the owner.
  `(4) LIMITED PARTICIPATION BY STATES AND LOCALITIES- A State or locality need
  not authorize the stopping of motor vehicles under all sets of conditions
  specified under the program in order to participate in the program.
  `(e) MOTOR VEHICLES FOR HIRE-
  `(1) NOTIFICATION TO LESSEES- Any person who is in the business of renting
  or leasing motor vehicles and who rents or leases a motor vehicle on which a
  program decal or device is affixed shall, prior to transferring possession
  of the vehicle, notify the person to whom the motor vehicle is rented or
  leased about the program.
  `(2) TYPE OF NOTICE- The notice required by this subsection shall--
  `(A) be in writing;
  `(B) be in a prominent format to be determined by the Attorney General; and
  `(C) explain the possibility that if the motor vehicle is operated under
  the specified conditions, the vehicle may be stopped by law enforcement
  officials even if the officials have no other basis for believing that
  the vehicle is being operated unlawfully.
  `(3) FINE FOR FAILURE TO PROVIDE NOTICE- Failure to provide proper notice
  under this subsection shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000.
  `(f) PARTICIPATING STATE OR LOCALITY- A State or locality may participate in
  the program by filing an agreement to comply with the terms and conditions
  of the program with the Attorney General.
  `(g) NOTIFICATION OF POLICE- As a condition of participating in the program,
  a State or locality must agree to take reasonable steps to ensure that
  law enforcement officials throughout the State or locality are familiar
  with the program, and with the conditions under which motor vehicles may
  be stopped under the program.
  `(h) REGULATIONS- The Attorney General shall promulgate regulations to
  implement this section.
  `(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized such sums as
  are necessary to carry out this section.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER ANALYSIS- The analysis for chapter 1 of title 23,
  United States Code, is amended by adding after the item for section 159
  the following:
`160. Motor vehicle theft prevention program.'.
SEC. 1733. ALTERING OR REMOVING MOTOR VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.
  (a) BASIC OFFENSE- Subsection (a) of section 511 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) Whoever, with intent to further the theft of a vehicle, knowingly
  removes, obliterates, tampers with, or alters an identification number for
  a motor vehicle, or motor vehicle part, or a decal or device affixed to
  a motor vehicle pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Act, shall
  be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.'.
  (b) EXCEPTED PERSONS- Paragraph (2) of section 511(b) of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by--
  (1) striking `and' after the semicolon in subparagraph (B);
  (2) striking the period at the end of subparagraph (C) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(D) a person who removes, obliterates, tampers with, or alters a decal
  or device affixed to a motor vehicle pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Theft
  Prevention Act, if that person is the owner of the motor vehicle, or
  is authorized to remove, obliterate, tamper with or alter the decal or
  device by--
  `(i) the owner or his authorized agent;
  `(ii) applicable State or local law; or
  `(iii) regulations promulgated by the Attorney General to implement the
  Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Act.'.
  (c) DEFINITION- Section 511 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(d) For purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the term `tampers with'
  includes covering a program decal or device affixed to a motor vehicle
  pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Act for the purpose of
  obstructing its visibility.'.
  (d) UNAUTHORIZED APPLICATION OF A DECAL OR DEVICE-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Chapter 25 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding after section 511 the following new section:
`Sec. 511A. Unauthorized application of theft prevention decal or device
  `(a) Whoever affixes to a motor vehicle a theft prevention decal or other
  device, or a replica thereof, unless authorized to do so pursuant to the
  Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Act, shall be punished by a fine not to
  exceed $1,000.
  `(b) For purposes of this section, the term `theft prevention decal
  or device' means a decal or other device designed in accordance with a
  uniform design for such devices developed pursuant to the Motor Vehicle
  Theft Prevention Act.'.
  (2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  25 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding immediately after
  the item for section 511 the following:
`511A. Unauthorized application of theft prevention decal or device.'.
Subtitle C--Terrorism: Civil Remedy
SEC. 1734. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `Antiterrorism Act of 1991'.
SEC. 1735. TERRORISM.
  (a) TERRORISM- Chapter 113A of title 18, United States Code, as amended
  by subsection (d) of this section, is amended--
  (1) in section 2331 by striking subsection (d) and redesignating subsection
  (e) as subsection (d);
  (2) by redesignating section 2331 as 2332, and striking the heading for
  section 2332 as so redesignated and inserting the following:
`Sec. 2332. Criminal penalties';
  (3) by inserting before section 2332 as so redesignated the following:
`Sec. 2331. Definitions
  `As used in this chapter--
  `(1) the term `international terrorism' means activities that--
  `(A) involve violent acts or acts dangerous to human life that are a
  violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State, or
  that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction
  of the United States or of any State;
  `(B) appear to be intended--
  `(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
  `(ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
  `(iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping;
  and
  `(C) occur primarily outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United
  States, or transcend national boundaries in terms of the means by which
  they are accomplished, the persons they appear intended to intimidate or
  coerce, or the locale in which their perpetrators operate or seek asylum;
  `(2) the term `national of the United States' has the meaning given such
  term in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act;
  `(3) the term `person' means any individual or entity capable of holding
  a legal or beneficial interest in property; and
  `(4) the term `act of war' means any act occurring in the course of--
  `(A) declared war;
  `(B) armed conflict, whether or not war has been declared, between two or
  more nations; or
  `(C) armed conflict between military forces of any origin.';
  (4) by adding immediately after section 2332 as redesignated the following
  new sections:
`Sec. 2333. Civil remedies
  `(a) ACTION AND JURISDICTION- Any national of the United States injured
  in his person, property, or business by reason of an act of international
  terrorism, or his estate, survivors, or heirs, may sue therefor in any
  appropriate district court of the United States and shall recover threefold
  the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including attorney's fees.
  `(b) ESTOPPED UNDER UNITED STATES LAW- A final judgment or decree rendered
  in favor of the United States in any criminal proceeding under section
  1116, 1201, 1203, or 2332 of this title or section 1472 (i), (k), (l),
  (n), or (r) of title 49 App. shall estop the defendant from denying the
  essential allegations of the criminal offense in any subsequent civil
  proceeding under this section.
  `(c) ESTOPPED UNDER FOREIGN LAW- A final judgment or decree rendered
  in favor of any foreign state in any criminal proceeding shall, to the
  extent that such judgment or decree may be accorded full faith and credit
  under the law of the United States, estop the defendant from denying the
  essential allegations of the criminal offense in any subsequent civil
  proceeding under this section.
`Sec. 2334. Jurisdiction and venue
  `(a) GENERAL VENUE- Any civil action under section 2333 of this title against
  any person may be instituted in the district court of the United States for
  any district where any plaintiff resides or where any defendant resides or
  is served, or has an agent. Process in such a civil action may be served
  in any district where the defendant resides, is found, or has an agent.
  `(b) SPECIAL MARITIME OR TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION- If the actions giving
  rise to the claim occurred within the special maritime and territorial
  jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in section 7 of this title,
  then any civil action under section 2333 of this title against any person may
  be instituted in the district court of the United States for any district
  in which any plaintiff resides or the defendant resides, is served, or
  has an agent.
  `(c) SERVICE ON WITNESSES- A witness in a civil action brought under section
  2333 of this title may be served in any other district where the defendant
  resides, is found, or has an agent.
  `(d) CONVENIENCE OF THE FORUM- The district court shall not dismiss any
  action brought under section 2333 of this title on the grounds of the
  inconvenience or inappropriateness of the forum chosen, unless--
  `(1) the action may be maintained in a foreign court that has jurisdiction
  over the subject matter and over all the defendants;
  `(2) that foreign court is significantly more convenient and appropriate; and
  `(3) that foreign court offers a remedy which is substantially the same
  as the one available in the courts of the United States.
`Sec. 2335. Limitation of actions
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), a suit for recovery of damages
  under section 2333 of this title shall not be maintained unless commenced
  within 4 years from the date the cause of action accrued.
  `(b) CALCULATION OF PERIOD- The time of the absence of the defendant from
  the United States or from any jurisdiction in which the same or a similar
  action arising from the same facts may be maintained by the plaintiff,
  or any concealment of his whereabouts, shall not be reckoned within this
  period of limitation.
`Sec. 2336. Other limitations
  `No action shall be maintained under section 2333 of this title for injury
  or loss by reason of an act of war.
`Sec. 2337. Suits against Government officials
  `No action shall be maintained under section 2333 of this title against--
  `(1) the United States, an agency of the United States, or an officer
  or employee of the United States or any agency thereof acting within his
  official capacity or under color of legal authority; or
  `(2) a foreign state, an agency of a foreign state, or an officer or employee
  of a foreign state or an agency thereof acting within his official capacity
  or under color of legal authority.
`Sec. 2338. Exclusive Federal jurisdiction
  `The district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction
  over an action brought under this chapter.'; and
  (5) by amending the table of sections at the beginning of the chapter to
  read as follows:
`Chapter 113A--Terrorism
`Sec.
`2331. Definitions.
`2332. Criminal penalties.
`2333. Civil remedies.
`2334. Jurisdiction and venue.
`2335. Limitation of actions.
`2336. Other limitations.
`2337. Suits against government officials.
`2338. Exclusive Federal jurisdiction.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of chapters at the beginning of part 1,
  title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking:
2331'
and inserting in lieu thereof:
2331'.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This title and the amendments made by this title shall
  apply to any pending case or any cause of action arising on or after 4
  years before the date of enactment of this Act.
  (d) CONFORMING REPEAL OF PRIOR CHAPTER 113A- The amendments made by section
  132 of Public Law 101-519, the Military Construction Appropriations Act,
  1991, are repealed, effective April 10, 1991.
Subtitle D--Commission on Crime and Violence
SEC. 1741. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION ON CRIME AND VIOLENCE.
  There is established a commission to be known as the `National Commission
  on Crime and Violence in America'. The Commission shall be composed of 22
  members, appointed as follows:
  (1) 6 persons by the President;
  (2) 8 persons by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, two of whom
  shall be appointed on the recommendation of the minority leader; and
  (3) 8 persons by the President pro tempore of the Senate, six of whom
  shall be appointed on the recommendation of the majority leader of the
  Senate and two of whom shall be appointed on the recommendation of the
  minority leader of the Senate.
SEC. 1742. PURPOSE.
  The purposes of the Commission are as follows:
  (1) To develop a comprehensive and effective crime control plan which will
  serve as a `blueprint' for action in the 1990's. The report shall include an
  estimated cost for implementing any recommendations made by the Commission.
  (2) To bring attention to successful models and programs in crime prevention
  and crime control.
  (3) To reach out beyond the traditional criminal justice community for
  ideas when developing the comprehensive crime control plan.
  (4) To recommend improvements in the coordination of local, State, Federal,
  and international border crime control efforts.
  (5) To make a comprehensive study of the economic and social factors lending
  to or contributing to crime and specific proposals for legislative and
  administrative actions to reduce crime and the elements that contribute
  to it.
  (6) To recommend means of targeting finite correctional facility space
  and resources to the most serious and violent offenders, with the goal of
  achieving the most cost-effective possible crime control and protection
  of the community and public safety, with particular emphasis on examining
  the issue of possible disproportionate incarceration rates among black
  males and any other minority group disproportionately represented in State
  and Federal correctional populations, and to consider increased use of
  alternatives to incarceration which offer a reasonable prospect of equal
  or better crime control at equal or less cost.
SEC. 1743. COMMISSION MEMBERS.
  (a) CHAIRPERSON- The President shall designate a chairperson from among
  the members of the Commission.
  (b) COMPOSITION OF MEMBERSHIP- The Commission members will represent a
  cross section of professions that include law enforcement, prosecution,
  criminal defense, judges, corrections, education, medicine, welfare and
  social services, victims of crime, elected officials from State, local
  and Federal Government that equally represent both political parties,
  and representatives of any other discipline with professional expertise
  in drug or crime reduction.
SEC. 1744. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
  (a) FEDERAL AGENCY SUPPORT- All Federal agencies shall provide such
  support and assistance as may be necessary for the Commission to carry
  out its functions.
  (b) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND STAFF- The President is authorized to appoint
  and compensate an executive director. Subject to such regulations as
  the Commission may prescribe, staff of the Commission may be appointed
  without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
  appointments in the competitive services and may be paid without regard
  to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of that
  title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
  (c) DETAILED FEDERAL EMPLOYEES- Upon the request of the chairperson,
  the heads of executive and military departments are authorized to detail
  employees to work with the executive director without regard to the
  provisions of section 3341 of title 5, United States Code.
  (d) TEMPORARY AND INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES- Subject to rules prescribed by
  the Commission, the chairperson may procure temporary and intermittent
  services under section 3108(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at a
  rate of base pay not to exceed the annual rate of base pay for GS-18 of
  the General Schedule.
SEC. 1745. REPORT.
  The Commission shall submit a final report to the President and the Congress
  not later than one year after the appointment of the Chairperson. The
  report shall include the findings and recommendations of the Commission
  as well as proposals for any legislative action necessary to implement
  such recommendations.
SEC. 1746. TERMINATION.
  The Commission shall terminate 30 days after submitting the report required
  under section 1745.
TITLE XVIII--MISCELLANEOUS FUNDING PROVISIONS
Subtitle A--General
SEC. 1801. AUTHORIZATION FOR DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
  There is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1992, for the Drug
  Enforcement Administration, $100,500,000, which shall include--
  (1) not to exceed $45,000,000 to hire, equip and train not less than 350
  agents and necessary support personnel to expand DEA investigations and
  operations against drug trafficking organizations in rural areas; and
  (2) not to exceed $25,000,000 to expand DEA State and Local Task Forces,
  including payment of state and local overtime, equipment and personnel
  costs; and
  (3) not to exceed $5,000,000 to hire, equip and train not less than 50
  special agents and necessary support personnel to investigate violations
  of the Controlled Substances Act relating to anabolic steroids.
SEC. 1802. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3793(a)) is amended by striking paragraph (7) as redesignated
  by section 103 of this Act and inserting the following:
  `(7) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
  for fiscal year 1991 and $200,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992,
  1993, and 1994 to carry out chapter B of subpart 2 of part E of this title.'.
SEC. 1803. AVAILABILITY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ASSETS FORFEITURE FUND
FOR CERTAIN BLOCK GRANTS.
  Section 524(c) of title 28, United States Code is amended by adding at
  the end the following:
  `(12)(A) In addition to the purposes otherwise provided for in this
  subsection, the Fund shall be available for the purpose of providing
  additional amounts for block grants under subpart I of part B of title
  XIX of the Public Health Service Act.
  `(B) Amounts made available under subparagraph (A)--
  `(i) may be transferred only from excess unobligated amounts in the
  Fund and only to the extent that, as determined by the Attorney General,
  such transfers will not impair the future availability of amounts for the
  purposes under paragraph (1); and
  `(ii) shall, with respect to each fiscal year, equal 25 percent of the
  total of such excess amounts for that fiscal year.
  `(C) Amounts made available under this paragraph for block grants referred
  to subparagraph (A) shall be used to supplement, rather than replace,
  amounts that would be otherwise available for such block grants.'.
SEC. 1804. LIMITATION ON GRANT DISTRIBUTION.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Section 510(b) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control
  and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3760(b)) is amended by inserting
  `non-Federal' after `with'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  on October 1, 1991.
SEC. 1805. AUTHORIZATION FOR BORDER PATROL PERSONNEL.
  There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1992 for the
  Immigration and Naturalization Service, $45,000,000, to be further allocated
  as follows:
  (1) $25,000,000 to hire, train, and equip no fewer than 500 full-time
  equivalent border patrol officer positions.
  (2) $20,000,000 to hire, train, and equip no fewer than 400 full-time
  equivalent Immigration and Naturalization Service criminal investigators
  dedicated to drug trafficking by illegal aliens and to deportations of
  criminal aliens.
SEC. 1806. FEDERAL SHARE.
  Section 504(a) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3754(a)) is amended by striking `not---' and all that
  follows through `per centum;' the last place it appears, and inserting the
  following: `not for any fiscal year be expended for more than 75 percent'.
SEC. 1807. DRUG ABUSE RESISTANCE EDUCATION PROGRAMS.
  Subsection (c) of section 5122 of the Drug-Free Schools and Communities
  Act of 1986, as amended by section 1504(3) of Public Law 101-647, is
  amended by inserting `or local governments that work cooperatively with
  local educational agencies' after `for grants to local educational agencies'.
SEC. 1821. DOMESTIC VIOLENCE GRANTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as amended by section 1241, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part W as part X;
  (2) by redesignating section 2301 as section 2401; and
  (3) by inserting after part Y the following:
`PART W--DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INTERVENTION
`SEC. 2301. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  `The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance may make grants to 10
  States for the purpose of assisting States in implementing a civil and
  criminal response to domestic violence.
`SEC. 2302. USE OF FUNDS.
  `Grants made by the Director under this part shall be used--
  `(1) to encourage increased prosecutions for domestic violence crimes;
  `(2) to report more accurately the incidences of domestic violence;
  `(3) to facilitate arrests and aggressive prosecution policies; and
  `(4) to provide legal advocacy services for victims of domestic violence.
`SEC. 2303. APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this
  part for any fiscal year, a State shall submit an application to the
  Director in such form and containing such information as the Director may
  reasonably require.
  `(b) REQUIREMENTS- Each application under subsection (a) shall include--
  `(1) a request for funds for the purposes described in section 2302;
  `(2) a description of the programs already in place to combat domestic
  violence;
  `(3) assurances that Federal funds received under this part shall be used
  to supplement, not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be
  available for activities funded under this part; and
  `(4) statistical information, if available, in such form and containing
  such information that the Director may require regarding domestic violence
  within that State.
  `(c) COMPREHENSIVE PLAN- Each application shall include a comprehensive
  plan that shall contain--
  `(1) a description of the domestic violence problem within the State
  targeted for assistance;
  `(2) a description of the projects to be developed;
  `(3) a description of the resources available in the State to implement
  the plan together with a description of the gaps in the plan that cannot
  be filled with existing resources;
  `(4) an explanation of how the requested grant will be used to fill gaps; and
  `(5) a description of the system the applicant will establish to prevent
  and reduce domestic violence.
`SEC. 2304. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS; LIMITATIONS ON GRANTS.
  `(a) STATE MAXIMUM- No State shall receive more than $2,500,000 under this
  part for any fiscal year.
  `(b) ADMINISTRATIVE COST LIMITATION- The Director shall use not more
  than 5 percent of the funds available under this part for the purposes of
  administration and technical assistance.
  `(c) RENEWAL OF GRANTS- A grant under this part may be renewed for up to
  2 additional years after the first fiscal year during which the recipient
  receives its initial grant under this part, subject to the availability
  of funds, if--
  `(1) the Director determines that the funds made available to the recipient
  during the previous year were used in a manner required under the approved
  application; and
  `(2) the Director determines that an additional grant is necessary to
  implement the crime prevention program described in the comprehensive plan
  as required by section 2303(c).
`SEC. 2305. AWARD OF GRANTS.
  `The Director shall consider the following factors in awarding grants to
  States and shall give preference to those State which have--
  `(1) a law or policy that requires the arrest of a person who police have
  probable cause to believe has committed an act of domestic violence or
  probable cause to believe has violated a civil protection order;
  `(2) a law or policy that discourages dual arrests;
  `(3) laws or statewide prosecution policies that authorize and encourage
  prosecutors to pursue domestic violence cases in which a criminal case
  can be proved, including proceeding without the active involvement of the
  victim if necessary;
  `(4) statewide guidelines for judges that--
  `(A) reduce the automatic issuance of mutual restraining or protective orders
  in cases where only one spouse has sought a restraining or protective order;
  `(B) require any history of abuse against a child or against a parent to
  be considered when making child custody determinations; and
  `(C) require judicial training on domestic violence and related civil and
  criminal court issues;
  `(5) policies that provide for the coordination of court and legal victim
  advocacy services; and
  `(6) policies that make existing remedies to domestic violence easily
  available to victims of domestic violence, including elimination of court
  fees, and the provision for simple court forms.
`SEC. 2306. REPORTS.
  `(a) REPORT TO DIRECTOR- Each State that receives funds under this part
  shall submit to the Director a report not later than March 1 of each year
  that describes progress achieved in carrying out the plan required under
  section 2103(c).
  `(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Director shall submit to the Congress a report
  by October 1 of each year in which grants are made available under this
  part which shall contain a detailed statement regarding grant awards,
  activities of grant recipients, a compilation of statistical information
  submitted by applicants under 2103(b)(4), and an evaluation of programs
  established under this part.
`SEC. 2307. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purpose of this part:
  `(1) The term `Director' means the Director of the Bureau of Justice
  Assistance.
  `(2) The term `domestic violence' means any act or threatened act of
  violence, including any forceful detention of an individual, which--
  `(A) results or threatens to result in physical injury; and
  `(B) is committed by an individual against another individual (including
  an elderly individual) to whom such individual is or was related by blood
  or marriage or otherwise legally related or with whom such individual is
  or was lawfully residing.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.), as
  amended by section 1241 of this Act, is amended by striking the matter
  relating to part W and inserting the following:
`PART W--DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INTERVENTION
`Sec. 2301. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 2302. Use of funds.
`Sec. 2303. Applications.
`Sec. 2304. Allocation of funds; limitations on grants.
`Sec. 2305. Award of grants.
`Sec. 2306. Reports.
`Sec. 2307. Definitions.
`PART X--TRANSITION; EFFECTIVE DATE; REPEALER
`Sec. 2401. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
SEC. 1822. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 1001(a) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
  (42 U.S.C. 3793), as amended by section 1242 of this Act, is amended by
  adding after paragraph (16) the following:
  `(17) There are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year
  1992 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to
  carry out the projects under part U.'.
Subtitle B--Midnight Basketball
SEC. 1831. GRANTS FOR MIDNIGHT BASKETBALL LEAGUE ANTICRIME PROGRAMS.
  (a) AUTHORITY- The Attorney General of the United States, in consultation
  with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, shall make grants,
  to the extent that amounts are approved in appropriations Acts under
  subsection (m) to--
  (1) eligible entities to assist such entities in carrying out midnight
  basketball league programs meeting the requirements of subsection (d); and
  (2) eligible advisory entities to provide technical assistance to eligible
  entities in establishing and operating such midnight basketball league
  programs.
  (b) Eligible Entities-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), grants under subsection (a)(1)
  may be made only to the following eligible entities:
  (A) Entities eligible under section 520(b) of the Cranston-Gonzalez
  National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 11903a(b)) for a grant under
  section 520(a) of such Act.
  (B) Nonprofit organizations providing crime prevention, employment
  counseling, job training, or other educational services.
  (C) Nonprofit organizations providing federally-assisted low-income housing.
  (2) PROHIBITION ON SECOND GRANTS- A grant under subsection (a)(1) may
  not be made to an eligible entity if the entity has previously received a
  grant under such subsection, except that the Attorney General may exempt
  an eligible advisory entity from the prohibition under this paragraph in
  extraordinary circumstances.
  (c) USE OF GRANT AMOUNTS- Any eligible entity that receives a grant under
  subsection (a)(1) may use such amounts only--
  (1) to establish or carry out a midnight basketball league program under
  subsection (d);
  (2) for salaries for administrators and staff of the program;
  (3) for other administrative costs of the program, except that not more than
  5 percent of the grant amount may be used for such administrative costs; and
  (4) for costs of training and assistance provided under subsection (d)(9).
  (d) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- Each eligible entity receiving a grant under
  subsection (a)(1) shall establish a midnight basketball league program
  as follows:
  (1) The program shall establish a basketball league of not less than 8
  teams having 10 players each.
  (2) Not less than 50 percent of the players in the basketball league shall
  be residents of federally assisted low-income housing.
  (3) The program shall be designed to serve primarily youths and young adults
  from a neighborhood or community whose population has not less than 2 of
  the following characteristics (in comparison with national averages):
  (A) A substantial problem regarding use or sale of illegal drugs.
  (B) A high incidence of crimes committed by youths or young adults.
  (C) A high incidence of persons infected with the human immunodeficiency
  virus or sexually transmitted diseases.
  (D) A high incidence of pregnancy or a high birth rate, among adolescents.
  (E) A high unemployment rate for youths and young adults.
  (F) A high rate of high school drop-outs.
  (4) The program shall require each player in the league to attend employment
  counseling, job training, and other educational classes provided under
  the program, which shall be held immediately following the conclusion of
  league basketball games at or near the site of the games.
  (5) The program shall serve only youths and young adults who demonstrate a
  need for such counseling, training, and education provided by the program, in
  accordance with criteria for demonstrating need, which shall be established
  by the Attorney General in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and
  Urban Development and with the Advisory Committee.
  (6) Basketball games of the league shall be held between the hours of
  10:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m. at a location in the neighborhood or community
  served by the program.
  (7) The program shall obtain sponsors for each team in the basketball
  league. Sponsors shall be private individuals or businesses in the
  neighborhood or community served by the program who make financial
  contributions to the program and participate in or supplement the employment,
  job training, and educational services provided to the players under the
  program with additional training or educational opportunities.
  (8) The program shall comply with any criteria established by the Attorney
  General in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
  and with the Advisory Committee established under subsection (i).
  (9) Administrators or organizers of the program shall receive training
  and technical assistance provided by eligible advisory entities receiving
  grants under subsection (h).
  (e) GRANT AMOUNT LIMITATIONS-
  (1) PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS- The Attorney General, in consultation with
  the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, may not make a grant
  under subsection (a)(1) to an eligible entity that applies for a grant
  under subsection (f) unless the applicant entity certifies to the Attorney
  General and the Secretary that the entity will supplement the grant amounts
  with amounts of funds from non-Federal sources, as follows:
  (A) In each of the first 2 years that amounts from the grant are disbursed
  (under paragraph (4)), an amount sufficient to provide not less than 35
  percent of the cost of carrying out the midnight basketball league program.
  (B) In each of the last 3 years that amounts from the grant are disbursed,
  an amount sufficient to provide not less than 50 percent of the cost of
  carrying out the midnight basketball league program.
  (2) NON-FEDERAL FUNDS- For purposes of this subsection, the term `funds
  from non-Federal sources' includes amounts from nonprofit organizations,
  public housing agencies, States, units of general local government, and
  Indian housing authorities, private contributions, any salary paid to
  staff (other than from grant amounts under subsection (a)(1)) to carry
  out the program of the eligible entity, in-kind contributions to carry
  out the program (as determined by the Attorney General, in consultation
  with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and with the Advisory
  Committee), the value of any donated material, equipment, or building,
  the value of any lease on a building, the value of any utilities provided,
  and the value of any time and services contributed by volunteers to carry
  out the program of the eligible entity.
  (3) PROHIBITION ON SUBSTITUTION OF FUNDS- Grant amounts under subsection
  (a)(1) and amounts provided by States and units of general local government
  to supplement grant amounts may not be used to replace other public funds
  previously used, or designated for use, under this section.
  (4) MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM GRANT AMOUNTS- The  Attorney General, in consultation
  with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, may not make a grant
  under subsection (a)(1) to any single eligible entity in an amount less
  than $50,000 or exceeding $125,000.
  (5) DISBURSEMENT- Amounts provided under a grant under subsection (a)(1)
  shall be disbursed to the eligible entity receiving the grant over the
  5-year period beginning on the date that the entity is selected to receive
  the grant, as follows:
  (A) In each of the first 2 years of such 5-year period, 23 percent of the
  total grant amount shall be disbursed to the entity.
  (B) In each of the last 3 years of such 5-year period, 18 percent of the
  total grant amount shall be disbursed to the entity.
  (f) APPLICATIONS- To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a)(1),
  an eligible entity shall submit to the Attorney General an application in
  the form and manner required by the Attorney General (after consultation the
  Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and with the Advisory Committee),
  which shall include--
  (1) a description of the midnight basketball league program to be carried
  out by the entity, including a description of the employment counseling,
  job training, and other educational services to be provided;
  (2) letters of agreement from service providers to provide training and
  counseling services required under subsection (d) and a description of
  such service providers;
  (3) letters of agreement providing for facilities for basketball games and
  counseling, training, and educational services required under subsection
  (d) and a description of the facilities;
  (4) a list of persons and businesses from the community served by the
  program who have expressed interest in sponsoring, or have made commitments
  to sponsor, a team in the midnight basketball league; and
  (5) evidence that the neighborhood or community served by the program
  meets the requirements of subsection (d)(3).
  (g) SELECTION- The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary
  of Housing and Urban Development and the with Advisory Committee, shall
  select eligible entities that have submitted applications under subsection
  (f) to receive grants under subsection (a)(1). The Attorney General,
  in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
  with the Advisory Committee, shall establish criteria for selection of
  applicants to receive such grants. The criteria shall include a preference
  for selection of eligible entities carrying out midnight basketball league
  programs in suburban and rural areas.
  (h) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS- Technical assistance grants under subsection
  (a)(2) shall be made as follows:
  (1) ELIGIBLE ADVISORY ENTITIES- Technical assistance grants may be made
  only to entities that--
  (A) are experienced and have expertise in establishing, operating, or
  administering successful and effective programs for midnight basketball
  and employment, job training, and educational services similar to the
  programs under subsection (d); and
  (B) have provided technical assistance to other entities regarding
  establishment and operation of such programs.
  (2) USE- Amounts received under technical assistance grants shall be used to
  establish centers for providing technical assistance to entities receiving
  grants under subsection (a)(1) of this section and section 520(a) of the
  Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 11903a(a))
  regarding establishment, operation, and administration of effective and
  successful midnight basketball league programs under this subsection.
  (3) NUMBER AND AMOUNT- To the extent that amounts are provided in
  appropriations Acts under subsection (m)(2) in each fiscal year, the
  Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban
  Development, shall make technical assistance grants under subsection
  (a)(2). In each fiscal year that such amounts are available the Attorney
  General, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
  shall make 2 such grants, as follows:
  (A) One grant shall be made to an eligible advisory entity for development
  of midnight basketball league programs in public housing projects.
  (B) One grant shall be made to an eligible advisory entity for development
  of midnight basketball league programs in suburban or rural areas.
Each grant shall be in an amount not exceeding $50,000.
  (i) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The Attorney General, in consultation with the
  Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, shall appoint an Advisory
  Committee to assist in providing grants under this subsection. The Advisory
  Committee shall be composed of not more than 7 members, as follows:
  (1) Not fewer than 2 individuals who are involved in managing or
  administering midnight basketball programs that the Secretary determines
  have been successful and effective. Such individuals may not be involved
  in a program assisted under this subsection or a member or employee of an
  eligible advisory entity that receives a technical assistance grant under
  subsection (a)(2).
  (2) A representative of the Office for Substance Abuse Prevention of the
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, who is
  involved in administering the grant program for prevention, treatment,
  and rehabilitation model projects for high risk youth under section 509A
  of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-8), who shall be selected
  by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
  (3) A representative of the Department of Education, who shall be selected
  by the Secretary of Education.
  (4) A representative of the Department of Health and Human Services, who
  shall be selected by the Secretary of Health and Human Services from among
  officers and employees of the Department involved in issues relating to
  high-risk youth.
  (j) REPORTS- The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of
  Housing and Urban Development, shall require each eligible entity receiving
  a grant under subsection (a)(1) and each eligible advisory entity receiving
  a grant under subsection (a)(2) to submit for each year in which grant
  amounts are received by the entity, a report describing the activities
  carried out with such amounts.
  (k) STUDY- To the extent amounts are provided under appropriation Acts
  pursuant to subsection (m)(3), the Attorney General, in consultation
  with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, shall make a grant
  to one entity qualified to carry out a study under this subsection. The
  entity shall use such grant amounts to carry out a scientific study of
  the effectiveness of midnight basketball league programs under subsection
  (d) of eligible entities receiving grants under subsection (a)(1). The
  Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban
  Development, shall require such entity to submit a report describing the
  study and any conclusions and recommendations resulting from the study
  to the Congress and the Attorney General and the Secretary not later than
  the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date that the grant
  under this subsection is made.
  (l) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
  (1) The term `Advisory Committee' means the Advisory Committee established
  under subsection (i).
  (2) The term `eligible advisory entity' means an entity meeting the
  requirements under subsection (h)(1).
  (3) The term `eligible entity' means an entity described under subsection
  (b)(1).
  (4) The term `federally assisted low-income housing' has the meaning
  given the term in section 5126 of the Public and Assisted Housing Drug
  Elimination Act of 1990.
  (m) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be
  appropriated--
  (1) for grants under subsection (a)(1), $2,500,000 in each of fiscal years
  1992 and 1993;
  (2) for technical assistance grants under subsection (a)(2), $100,000 in
  each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993; and
  (2) for a study grant under subsection (k), $250,000 in fiscal year 1992.
TITLE XIX--MISCELLANEOUS CRIMINAL PROCEDURE AND CORRECTIONS
Subtitle A--Revocation of Probation and Supervised Release
SEC. 1901. IMPOSITION OF SENTENCE.
  Section 3553(a)(4) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(4) the kinds of sentence and the sentencing range established for--
  `(A) the applicable category of offense committed by the applicable category
  of defendant as set forth in the guidelines issued by the Sentencing
  Commission pursuant to section 994(a)(1) of title 28, United States Code,
  and that are in effect on the date the defendant is sentenced; or
  `(B) in the case of a violation of probation or supervised release,
  the applicable guidelines or policy statements issued by the Sentencing
  Commission pursuant to section 994(a)(3) of title 28, United States Code;'.
SEC. 1902. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO MANDATORY CONDITIONS OF PROBATION.
  Section 3563(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `possess illegal controlled substances' and inserting `unlawfully possess
  a controlled substance'.
SEC. 1903. REVOCATION OF PROBATION.
  (a) In General.--Section 3565(a) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2) by striking `impose any other sentence that was
  available under subchapter A at the time of the initial sentencing' and
  inserting `resentence the defendant under subchapter A'; and
  (2) by striking the last sentence.
  (b) Mandatory Revocation.--Section 3565(b) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(b) MANDATORY REVOCATION FOR POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR FIREARM
  OR REFUSAL TO COOPERATE IN DRUG TESTING- If the defendant--
  `(1) possesses a controlled substance in violation of the condition set
  forth in section 3563(a)(3);
  `(2) possesses a firearm, as such term is defined in section 921 of this
  title, in violation of Federal law, or otherwise violates a condition of
  probation prohibiting the defendant from possessing a firearm; or
  `(3) refuses to cooperate in drug testing, thereby violating the condition
  imposed by section 3563(a)(4);
the court shall revoke the sentence of probation and resentence the defendant
under subchapter A to a sentence that includes a term of imprisonment.'.
SEC. 1904. SUPERVISED RELEASE AFTER IMPRISONMENT.
  Section 3583 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (d), by striking `possess illegal controlled substances'
  and inserting `unlawfully possess a controlled substance';
  (2) in subsection (e)--
  (A) by striking `person' each place such term appears in such subsection
  and inserting `defendant'; and
  (B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
  `(3) revoke a term of supervised release, and require the defendant to
  serve in prison all or part of the term of supervised release authorized by
  statute for the offense that resulted in such term of supervised release
  without credit for time previously served on postrelease supervision, if
  the court, pursuant to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure applicable to
  revocation of probation or supervised release, finds by a preponderance of
  the evidence that the defendant violated a condition of supervised release,
  except that a defendant whose term is revoked under this paragraph may
  not be required to serve more than 5 years in prison if the offense that
  resulted in the term of supervised release is a class A felony, more than
  3 years in prison if such offense is a class B felony, more than 2 years
  in prison if such offense is a class C or D felony, or more than one year
  in any other case; or'; and
  (3) by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following:
  `(g) MANDATORY REVOCATION FOR POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR FIREARM
  OR FOR REFUSAL TO COOPERATE WITH DRUG TESTING- If the defendant--
  `(1) possesses a controlled substance in violation of the condition set
  forth in subsection (d);
  `(2) possesses a firearm, as such term is defined in section 921 of this
  title, in violation of Federal law, or otherwise violates a condition of
  supervised release prohibiting the defendant from possessing a firearm; or
  `(3) refuses to cooperate in drug testing imposed as a condition of
  supervised release;
the court shall revoke the term of supervised release and require the defendant
to serve a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum term of imprisonment
authorized under subsection (e)(3).
  `(h) SUPERVISED RELEASE FOLLOWING REVOCATION- When a term of supervised
  release is revoked and the defendant is required to serve a term of
  imprisonment that is less than the maximum term of imprisonment authorized
  under subsection (e)(3), the court may include a requirement that the
  defendant be placed on a term of supervised release after imprisonment. The
  length of such a term of supervised release shall not exceed the term of
  supervised release authorized by statute for the offense that resulted
  in the original term of supervised release, less any term of imprisonment
  that was imposed upon revocation of supervised release.
  `(i) DELAYED REVOCATION- The power of the court to revoke a term of
  supervised release for violation of a condition of supervised release,
  and to order the defendant to serve a term of imprisonment and, subject to
  the limitations in subsection (h), a further term of supervised release,
  extends beyond the expiration of the term of supervised release for any
  period reasonably necessary for the adjudication of matters arising before
  its expiration if, before its expiration, a warrant or summons has been
  issued on the basis of an allegation of such a violation.'.
Subtitle B--List of Veniremen
SEC. 1911. LIST OF VENIREMEN.
  Section 3432 of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 3432. Indictment and list of jurors and witnesses for prisoner in
capital cases
  `(a) A person charged with treason or other capital offense shall, a
  reasonable time before commencement of trial, be furnished with--
  `(1) a copy of the indictment;
  `(2) a list of the veniremen, and of the witnesses to be produced on the
  trial for proving the indictment and at the sentencing hearing, stating
  the place of abode of each venireman and witness;
  `(3) the relevant written or recorded statements of such witnesses,
  relevant portions of memoranda containing reports of their statements,
  and copies of documents and opportunity to examine tangible objects that
  the government intends to use in the trial or sentencing hearing; and
  `(4) such other reports, statements, or information as the court may order.
  `(b) The list of veniremen and the name and address of a witness or other
  information identifying a witness need not be furnished under this section if
  the court finds by the preponderance of the evidence that providing the list
  or the name or address may jeopardize the life or safety of any person.'.
Subtitle C--Immunity
SEC. 1921. IMMUNITY.
  Section 6003(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `or' before `Deputy Assistant Attorney General' and
  inserting a comma; and
  (2) by inserting `or one other officer or employee of the Criminal
  Division designated by the Attorney General' after `Deputy Assistant
  Attorney General'.
Subtitle D--Clarification of 18 U.S.C. 5032's Requirement That Any Prior Record
of a Juvenile Be Produced Before the Commencement of Juvenile Proceedings
SEC. 1931. CLARIFICATION OF 18 U.S.C. 5032's REQUIREMENT THAT ANY PRIOR RECORD
OF A JUVENILE BE PRODUCED BEFORE THE COMMENCEMENT OF JUVENILE PROCEEDINGS.
  Section 5032 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking `Any
  proceedings against a juvenile under this chapter or as an adult shall not
  be commenced until' and inserting `A juvenile shall not be transferred
  to adult prosecution nor shall a hearing be held under section 5037
  (disposition after a finding of juvenile delinquency) until'.
Subtitle E--Petty Offenses
SEC. 1941. AUTHORIZATION OF PROBATION FOR PETTY OFFENSES IN CERTAIN CASES.
  Section 3561(a)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding
  at the end: `However, this paragraph does not preclude the imposition of
  a sentence to a term of probation for a petty offense if the defendant
  has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment at the same time for another
  such offense.'.
SEC. 1942. TRIAL BY A MAGISTRATE IN PETTY OFFENSE CASES.
  Section 3401 of title 18, United States Code, is amended in subsection
  (b) by adding `other than a petty offense' after `misdemeanor'.
SEC. 1943. CONFORMING AUTHORITY FOR MAGISTRATES TO REVOKE SUPERVISED RELEASE
IN ADDITION TO PROBATION IN MISDEMEANOR CASES IN WHICH THE MAGISTRATE
IMPOSED SENTENCE.
  Section 3401(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at
  the end the following: `A magistrate judge who has sentenced a person to
  a term of supervised release shall also have power to revoke or modify
  the term or conditions of such supervised release.'.
Subtitle F--Optional Venue for Espionage and Related Offenses
SEC. 1944. OPTIONAL VENUE FOR ESPIONAGE AND RELATED OFFENSES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 211 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by inserting:
`Sec. 3239. Optional venue for espionage and related offenses.
  `The trial for any offense involving a violation, begun or committed upon
  the high seas or elsewhere out of the jurisdiction of any particular State
  or district, of--
  `(1) section 793, 794, 798, or section 1030(a)(1) of this title;
  `(2) section 601 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 421); or
  `(3) section 4(b) or 4(c) of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950
  (50 U.S.C. 783(b) or (c));
may be in the District of Columbia or in any other district authorized
by law.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The item relating to section 3239 in the table of
  sections at the beginning of chapter 211 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended to read as follows:
`3239. Optional venue for espionage and related offense.'.
Subtitle G--General
SEC. 1951. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES.
  (a) SECTION 1705(b)- Section 206(b) of the International Economic
  Emergency Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705(b)) is amended by striking `$50,000'
  and inserting`$1,000,000'.
  (b) SECTION 1705(a)- Section 206(a) of the International Economic Emergency
  Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705(a)) is amended by striking `$10,000' and inserting
  `$1,000,000'.
  (c) SECTION 1541- Section 1541 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `$500' and inserting `$250,000'; and
  (2) by striking `one year' and inserting `five years'.
  (d) CHAPTER 75- Sections 1542, 1543, 1544 and 1546 of title 18, United
  States Code, are each amended--
  (1) by striking`$2,000' each place it appears and inserting `$250,000'; and
  (2) by striking `five years' each place it appears and inserting `ten years'.
  (e) Section 1545- Section 1545 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `$2,000' and inserting `$250,000'; and
  (2) by striking `three years' and inserting `ten years'.
SEC. 1952. SENTENCING GUIDELINES INCREASE FOR TERRORIST CRIMES.
  The United States Sentencing Commission is directed to amend its sentencing
  guidelines to provide an increase of not less than three levels in the base
  offense level for any felony, whether committed within or outside the United
  States, that involves or is intended to promote international terrorism,
  unless such involvement or intent is itself an element of the crime.
SEC. 1953. EXTENSION OF THE STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR CERTAIN TERRORISM
OFFENSES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 213 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by inserting after section 3285 the following:
`Sec. 3286. Extension of statute of limitations for certain terrorism offenses
  `Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3282, no person shall be
  prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offense involving a violation of
  section 32 (aircraft destruction), section 36 (airport violence), section
  112 (assaults upon diplomats), section 351 (crimes against Congressmen or
  Cabinet officers), section 1116 (crimes against diplomats), section 1203
  (hostage taking), section 1361 (willful injury to government property),
  section 1751 (crimes against the President), section 2280 (maritime
  violence), section 2281 (maritime platform violence), section 2331
  (terrorist acts abroad against United States nationals), section 2339
  (use of weapons of mass destruction), or section 2340A (torture) of this
  title or section 902 (i), (j), (k), (l), or (n) of the Federal Aviation
  Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. App. 1572 (i), (j), (k), (l), or (n)),
  unless the indictment is found or the information is instituted within
  ten years next after such offense shall have been committed.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  213 is amended by inserting below the item for:
`3285. Criminal contempt.'
the following:
`3286. Extension of statute of limitations for certain terrorism offenses.'.
SEC. 1954. VICTIM'S RIGHT OF ALLOCUTION IN SENTENCING.
  Rule 32 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure is amended by--
  (1) striking `and' following the semicolon in subdivision (a)(1)(B);
  (2) striking the period at the end of subdivision (a)(1)(C) and inserting
  in lieu thereof `; and';
  (3) inserting after subdivision (a)(1)(C) the following:
  `(D) if sentence is to be imposed for a crime of violence or sexual abuse,
  address the victim personally if the victim is present at the sentencing
  hearing and determine if the victim wishes to make a statement and to
  present any information in relation to the sentence.';
  (4) in the second to last sentence of subdivision (a)(1), striking
  `equivalent opportunity' and inserting in lieu thereof `opportunity
  equivalent to that of the defendant's counsel';
  (5) in the last sentence of subdivision (a)(1) inserting `the victim,'
  before `or the attorney for the Government.'; and
  (6) adding at the end the following:
  `(f) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this rule--
  `(1) `victim' means any individual against whom an offense for which a
  sentence is to be imposed has been committed, but the right of allocution
  under subdivision (a)(1)(D) may be exercised instead by--
  `(A) a parent or legal guardian in case the victim is below the age of
  eighteen years or incompetent; or
  `(B) one or more family members or relatives designated by the court in
  case the victim is deceased or incapacitated;
if such person or persons are present at the sentencing hearing, regardless
of whether the victim is present; and
  `(2) `crime of violence or sexual abuse' means a crime that involved the
  use or attempted or threatened use of physical force against the person
  or property of another, or a crime under chapter 109A of title 18, United
  States Code.'.
SEC. 1955. CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD INFORMATION FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS
RELATING TO GAMING.
  A State gaming enforcement office located within a State Attorney General's
  office may obtain from the Interstate Identification Index of the FBI
  criminal history record information for licensing purposes through an
  authorized criminal justice agency.
SEC. 1956. PRISON IMPACT ASSESSMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 303 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end the following new section:
`Sec. 4047. Prison impact assessments
  `(a) Any submission of legislation by the Judicial or Executive branch
  which could increase or decrease the number of persons incarcerated or
  in Federal penal institutions shall be accompanied by a prison impact
  statement, as defined in subsection (b) of this section.
  `(b) The Attorney General shall, in consultation with the Sentencing
  Commission and the Administrative Office of the United States Courts,
  prepare and furnish prison impact assessments under subsection (c) of this
  section, and in response to requests from Congress for information relating
  to a pending measure or matter that might affect the number of defendants
  processed through the Federal criminal justice system. A prison impact
  assessment on pending legislation must be supplied within 7 days of any
  request. A prison impact assessment shall include--
  `(1) projections of the impact on prison, probation, and post prison
  supervision populations;
  `(2) an estimate of the fiscal impact of such population changes on Federal
  expenditures, including those for construction and operation of correctional
  facilities for the current fiscal year and 5 succeeding fiscal years;
  `(3) an analysis of any other significant factor affecting the cost of
  the measure and its impact on the operations of components of the criminal
  justice system; and
  `(4) a statement of the methodologies and assumptions utilized in preparing
  the assessment.
  `(c) The Attorney General shall prepare and transmit to the Congress, by
  March 1 of each year, a prison impact assessment reflecting the cumulative
  effect of all relevant changes in the law taking effect during the preceding
  calendar year.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  303 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
`4047. Prison impact assessments.'.
SEC. 1957. INTERSTATE ENFORCEMENT OF PROTECTION ORDERS.
  (a) FULL FAITH AND CREDIT GIVEN TO PROTECTION ORDERS- Any protection order
  issued consistent with the terms of subsection (b) by the court of one
  State (the issuing State) shall be accorded full faith and credit by the
  court of another State (the enforcing State) and enforced as if it were
  the order of the enforcing State.
  (b) PROTECTION ORDER- A protection order issued by a State court is
  consistent with the terms of this section if--
  (1) such court has jurisdiction over the parties and matter under the law
  of such State; and
  (2) reasonable notice and opportunity to be heard is given to the person
  against whom the order is sought sufficient to protect that person's right
  to due process. In the case of ex parte orders, notice and opportunity to
  be heard must be provided within the time required by State law, and in
  any event within a reasonable time after the order is issued, sufficient
  to protect the respondent's due process rights.
  (c) CROSS OR COUNTER PETITION- A protection order issued by a State court
  against one who has petitioned, filed a complaint, or otherwise filed
  a written pleading for protection against abuse by a spouse or intimate
  partner is not entitled to full faith and credit if--
  (1) no cross or counter petition, complaint, or other written pleading
  was filed seeking such a protection order; or
  (2) if a cross or counter petition has been filed, if the court did not
  make specific findings that each party was entitled to such an order.
  (d) DEFINITIONS-  As used in this section--
  (1) the term `spouse or intimate partner' includes--
  (A) a present or former spouse, a person who shares a child in common with
  the abuser, and a person who cohabits or has cohabited with the abuser as
  a spouse; and
  (B) any other person similarly situated to a spouse, other than a child,
  who is protected by the domestic or family violence laws of the State in
  which the injury occurred or where the victim resides;
  (2) the term `protection order' includes any injunction or other order
  issued for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts by one
  spouse against his or her spouse or intimate partner, including temporary
  and final orders issued by civil and criminal courts (other than support
  or child custody orders) whether obtained by filing an independent action
  or as a pendente lite order in another proceeding so long as any civil
  order was issued in response to a complaint, petition or motion of an
  abused spouse or intimate partner; and
  (3) the term `State' includes a State of the United States, the District
  of Columbia, and any Indian tribe, commonwealth, territory, or possession
  of the United States.
SEC. 1958. SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN HABEAS CORPUS PETITIONS RELATING TO
DEATH SENTENCES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Any existing race bias claim, whether or not previously
  raised or determined, unless determined on the merits in a Federal habeas
  corpus proceeding, may be raised in a proceeding commenced under chapter
  153 of title 28, United States Code, not later than 1 year after the date
  of the enactment of this Act and shall be determined on the merits. In
  determining the merits of that claim, the law in effect at the time of
  the determination shall apply.
  (b) DEFINITION- As used in this subsection, the term `existing race bias
  claim' means a claim of race discrimination, or bias on the basis of race--
  (1) made by a person seeking relief with respect to a sentence of death
  imposed before the date of the enactment of this Act; and
  (2) based on a Supreme Court decision announced before such date of
  enactment.
SEC. 1959. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE STUDY.
  (a) FEASIBILITY STUDY- The National Institute of Justice shall study
  the feasibility of establishing a clearinghouse to provide information
  to interested persons to facilitate the transfer of prisoners in State
  correctional institutions to other such correctional institutions, pursuant
  to the Interstate Corrections Compact or other applicable interstate compact,
  for the purpose of allowing prisoners to serve their prison sentences at
  correctional institutions in close proximity to their families.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The National Institute of Justice shall, not
  later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, submit
  to the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and
  the Senate a report containing the results of the study conducted under
  subsection (a), together with any recommendations the Institute may have
  on establishing a clearinghouse described in such subsection.
  (c) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `State' includes the
  District of Columbia and any territory or possession of the United States.
SEC. 1960. RIGHT OF THE VICTIM TO AN IMPARTIAL JURY.
  Rule 24(b) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure is amended by striking
  `the Government is entitled to 6 peremptory challenges and the defendant
  or defendants jointly to 10 peremptory challenges'and inserting `each side
  is entitled to 6 peremptory challenges'.
TITLE XX--FIREARMS AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
Subtitle A--Firearms and Related Amendments
SEC. 2001. ENHANCED PENALTY FOR USE OF A SEMIAUTOMATIC FIREARM DURING A
CRIME OF VIOLENCE OR A DRUG TRAFFICKING CRIME.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 924(c)(1) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by striking `and if the firearm is a short-barreled rifle,
  short-barreled shotgun' and inserting `if the firearm is a semiautomatic
  firearm, a short-barreled rifle, or a short-barreled shotgun,'.
  (b) SEMIAUTOMATIC FIREARM- Section 921(a) of such title is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
  `(29) The term `semiautomatic firearm' means any repeating firearm which
  utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired
  cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a separate
  pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.'.
SEC. 2002. INCREASED PENALTY FOR SECOND OFFENSE OF USING AN EXPLOSIVE TO
COMMIT A FELONY.
  Section 844(h) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `ten' and inserting `twenty'.
SEC. 2003. SMUGGLING FIREARMS IN AID OF DRUG TRAFFICKING.
  Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end the following:
  `(i) Whoever, with the intent to engage in or to promote conduct which--
  `(1) is punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801
  et seq.), the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951
  et seq.), or the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act (46 U.S.C. App. 1901
  et seq.);
  `(2) violates any law of a State relating to any controlled substance (as
  defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)); or
  `(3) constitutes a crime of violence (as defined in subsection (c)(3)
  of this section);
smuggles or knowingly brings into the United States a firearm, or attempts to
do so, shall be imprisoned not more than ten years, fined under this title,
or both.'.
SEC. 2004. PROHIBITION AGAINST THEFT OF FIREARMS OR EXPLOSIVES.
  (a) FIREARMS- Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding after the subsection added by section 2003 of this Act the following:
  `(j) Whoever steals any firearm which is moving as, or is a part of, or
  which has moved in, interstate or foreign commerce shall be imprisoned not
  less than two nor more than ten years, fined in accordance with this title,
  or both.'.
  (b) EXPLOSIVES- Section 844 of such title is amended by adding at the end
  the following:
  `(k) Whoever steals any explosive materials which are moving as, or are a
  part of, or which have moved in, interstate or foreign commerce shall be
  imprisoned not less than two nor more than ten years, fined in accordance
  with this title, or both.'.
SEC. 2005. INCREASED PENALTY FOR KNOWINGLY FALSE, MATERIAL STATEMENT IN
CONNECTION WITH THE ACQUISITION OF A FIREARM FROM A LICENSED DEALER.
  Section 924(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking `(a)(6),'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting `(a)(6),' after `subsection'.
 [Struck out->][ SEC. 2006. EXTENSION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR NATIONAL
 FIREARMS ACT OFFENSES.
   [Struck out->][ (a) In General- Section 6531 of the Internal Revenue Code
   of 1986 (relating to periods of limitation of criminal prosecutions) is
   amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting `5 years for
   offenses described in section 5861 (relating to firearms), and' before
   `6 years'.
   [Struck out->][ (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- THE AMENDMENT MADE BY THIS SECTION
   SHALL APPLY TO OFFENSES COMMITTED AFTER THE DATE OF THE ENACTMENT OF THIS
   ACT. ][<-Struck out]
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2007. ][<-Struck out]  2006. SUMMARY DESTRUCTION OF
EXPLOSIVES SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE.
  Section 844(c) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by redesignating
  subsection (c) as subsection (c)(1) and by inserting after and below the
  end the following:
  `(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in the case of the seizure of any
  explosive materials for any offense for which the materials would be
  subject to forfeiture where it is impracticable or unsafe to remove the
  materials to a place of storage, or where it is unsafe to store them,
  the seizing officer may destroy the explosive materials forthwith. Any
  destruction under this paragraph shall be in the presence of at least one
  credible witness. The seizing officer shall make a report of the seizure
  and take samples as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe.
  `(3) Within sixty days after any destruction made pursuant to paragraph (2),
  the owner of, including any person having an interest in, the property so
  destroyed may make application to the Secretary for reimbursement of the
  value of the property. If the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of
  the Secretary that--
  `(A) the property has not been used or involved in a violation of law; or
  `(B) any unlawful involvement or use of the property was without the
  claimant's knowledge, consent, or willful blindness,
the Secretary shall make an allowance to the claimant not exceeding the
value of the property destroyed.'.
 [Struck out->][ SEC. 2008. SUMMARY FORFEITURE OF UNREGISTERED NATIONAL
 FIREARMS ACT WEAPONS.
   [Struck out->][ (a) In General- Subsection (a) of section 5872 of the
   Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to forfeitures) is amended by
   adding at the end the following new paragraph:
   [Struck out->][ `(2) Summary forfeiture of unregistered firearms-
   [Struck out->][ `(A) In general- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the
   provisions of sections 7323 and 7325 shall not apply to any firearm which
   is not registered in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer
   Record pursuant to section 5841. No property rights shall exist in any
   such unregistered firearm and it shall be summarily forfeited to the
   United States.
   [Struck out->][ `(B) Rights of innocent owners- Within 1 year after any
   summary forfeiture made pursuant to subparagraph (A), the owner of the
   property seized (including any person having an interest in the property)
   may make application to the Secretary for reimbursement of the value
   of the property. The Secretary shall make an allowance to the claimant
   not exceeding the value of the property so forfeited, if the claimant
   establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary that--
   [Struck out->][ `(i) the property has not been involved or used in a
   violation of law, or
   [Struck out->][ `(ii) any unlawful involvement or use of the property
   had been without the claimant's consent, knowledge, or willful blindness.'.
   [Struck out->][ (b) Clerical Amendment- Subsection (a) of section 5872
   of such Code is amended--
   [Struck out->][ (1) by inserting `(1) In general- ' after the subsection
   caption, and
   [Struck out->][ (2) by indenting paragraph (1) of such subsection in the
   same manner as paragraph (2) of such subsection.
   [Struck out->][ (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- THE AMENDMENTS MADE BY THIS SECTION
   SHALL APPLY TO UNREGISTERED FIREARMS AFTER THE DATE OF THE ENACTMENT OF
   THIS ACT. ][<-Struck out]
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2009. ][<-Struck out]  2007. ELIMINATION OF OUTMODED
LANGUAGE RELATING TO PAROLE.
  Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking `No person sentenced under this
  subsection shall be eligible for parole during the term of imprisonment
  imposed herein.'; and
  (2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking `, and such person shall not be
  eligible for parole with respect to the sentence imposed under this
  subsection'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2010. ][<-Struck out]  2008. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR
USE OF A FIREARM IN THE COMMISSION OF COUNTERFEITING OR FORGERY.
  Section 924(c)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or during and in relation to any felony punishable under chapter 25'
  after `United States,'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2011. ][<-Struck out]  2009. MANDATORY PENALTIES FOR
FIREARMS POSSESSION BY VIOLENT FELONS AND SERIOUS DRUG OFFENDERS.
  (a) 1 PRIOR CONVICTION- Section 924(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by inserting `, and if the violation is of section 922(g)(1)
  by a person who has a previous conviction for a violent felony or a serious
  drug offense (as defined in subsections (e)(2)(A) and (B) of this section),
  a sentence imposed under this paragraph shall include a term of imprisonment
  of not less than five years' before the period.
  (b) 2 PRIOR CONVICTIONS- Section 924 of such title is amended by adding after
  the subsections added by sections 2003 and 2004(a) of this Act the following:
  `(k)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2) of this section, any person
  who violates section 922(g) and has 2 previous convictions by any court
  referred to in section 922(g)(1) for a violent felony (as defined in
  subsection (e)(2)(B) of this section) or a serious drug offense (as defined
  in subsection (e)(2)(A) of this section) committed on occasions different
  from one another shall be fined as provided in this title, imprisoned not
  less than 10 years and not more than 20 years, or both.
  `(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court shall not
  suspend the sentence of, or grant a probationary sentence to, such person
  with respect to the conviction under section 922(g).'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2012. ][<-Struck out]  2010. REPORTING OF MULTIPLE
FIREARMS SALES.
  Section 923(g)(3) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `five consecutive business' and inserting `thirty
  consecutive'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following: `Each licensee shall forward a
  copy of the report to the chief law enforcement officer of the place of
  residence of the unlicensed person not later than the close of business
  on the date that the multiple sale or disposition occurs.'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2013. ][<-Struck out]  2011. RECEIPT OF FIREARMS
BY NONRESIDENT.
  Section 922(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (7)(C), by striking `and';
  (2) in paragraph (8)(C), by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(9) for any person, other than a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer,
  licensed dealer, or licensed collector, who does not reside in any State
  to receive any firearms.'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2014. ][<-Struck out]  2012. PROHIBITION AGAINST
CONSPIRACY TO VIOLATE FEDERAL FIREARMS OR EXPLOSIVES LAWS.
  (a) FIREARMS- SECTION 924 OF TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE, IS AMENDED BY
  ADDING AFTER THE SUBSECTIONS ADDED BY SECTIONS 2003, 2004(A), AND  [Struck
  out->][ 2011(b) ][<-Struck out]  2009(b) of this Act the following:
  `(l) Whoever conspires to commit any offense punishable under this chapter
  shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed for the offense
  the commission of which was the object of the conspiracy.'.
  (b) EXPLOSIVES- Section 844 of such title is amended by adding after the
  subsection added by section 2004(b) of this Act the following:
  `(l) Whoever conspires to commit any offense punishable under this chapter
  shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed for the offense
  the commission of which was the object of the conspiracy.'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2015. ][<-Struck out]  2013. PROHIBITION AGAINST THEFT
OF FIREARMS OR EXPLOSIVES FROM LICENSEE.
  (a) FIREARMS- SECTION 924 OF TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE, IS AMENDED BY
  ADDING AFTER THE SUBSECTIONS ADDED BY SECTIONS 2003, 2004(A),  [Struck
  out->][ 2011(b), and 2014(a) ][<-Struck out]  2009(b), and 2012(a) of this
  Act the following:
  `(m) Whoever steals any firearm from a licensed importer, licensed
  manufacturer, licensed dealer, or licensed collector shall be fined in
  accordance with this title, imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.'.
  (b) EXPLOSIVES- SECTION 844 OF SUCH TITLE IS AMENDED BY ADDING AFTER
  THE SUBSECTIONS ADDED BY SECTIONS 2004(B) AND  [Struck out->][ 2014(b)
  ][<-Struck out]  2012(b) of this Act the following:
  `(m) Whoever steals any explosive material from a licensed importer,
  licensed manufacturer, licensed dealer, or permittee shall be fined in
  accordance with this title, imprisoned not more than ten years, or both.'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2016. ][<-Struck out]  2014. PROHIBITION AGAINST
DISPOSING OF EXPLOSIVES TO PROHIBITED PERSONS.
  Section 842(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `licensee' and inserting `person'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2017. ][<-Struck out]  2015. COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND
LOCAL FIREARMS LICENSING LAWS REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE OF FEDERAL LICENSE
TO DEAL IN FIREARMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 923(d)(1) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (D);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting
  `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(F) in the case of an application for a license to engage in the business
  of dealing in firearms--
  `(i) the applicant has complied with all requirements imposed on
  persons desiring to engage in such a business by the State and political
  subdivision thereof in which the applicant conducts or intends to conduct
  such business; and
  `(ii) the application includes a written statement which--
  `(I) is signed by the chief of police of the locality, or the sheriff of
  the county, in which the applicant conducts or intends to conduct such
  business, the head of the State police of such State, or any official
  designated by the Secretary; and
  `(II) certifies that the information available to the signer of the
  statement does not indicate that the applicant is ineligible to obtain
  such a license under the law of such State and locality.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
  applications for a license that is issued on or after the date of the
  enactment of this Act.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2018. ][<-Struck out]  2016. INCREASED PENALTY FOR
INTERSTATE GUN TRAFFICKING.
  Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding after
  the subsections added by sections 2003, 2004(a),  [Struck out->][ 2011(b),
  2014(a), and 2015(a) ][<-Struck out]  2009(b), 2012(a), and 2013(a) of
  this Act the following:
  `(n) Whoever, with the intent to engage in conduct which constitutes a
  violation of section 922(a)(1)(A), travels from any State or foreign country
  into any other State and acquires, or attempts to acquire, a firearm in
  such other State in furtherance of such purpose shall be imprisoned for
  not more than 10 years.'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2019. ][<-Struck out]  2017. PROHIBITION AGAINST
TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING STOLEN FIREARMS WHICH HAVE MOVED IN INTERSTATE OR
FOREIGN COMMERCE.
  Section 922(j) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as
  follows:
  `(j) It shall be unlawful for any person to receive, possess, conceal,
  store, barter, sell, or dispose of any stolen firearm or stolen ammunition,
  or pledge or accept as security for a loan any stolen firearm or stolen
  ammunition, which is moving as, which is a part of, which constitutes, or
  which has been shipped or transported in, interstate or foreign commerce,
  either before or after it was stolen, knowing or having reasonable cause
  to believe that the firearm or ammunition was stolen.'.
SEC.  [Struck out->][ 2020. ][<-Struck out]  2018. POSSESSION OF EXPLOSIVES
BY FELONS AND OTHERS.
  Section 842(i) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `or possess' after `to receive'.
Subtitle B--Assault Weapons
SEC. 2021. PROHIBITION AGAINST POSSESSION AND TRANSFER OF ASSAULT WEAPONS.
  (a) PROHIBITION- Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
  `(s)(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to possess an assault weapon,
  unless--
  `(A) the weapon was lawfully and continuously possessed by the person
  since before the date the weapon is included in the list set forth in
  section 921(a)(30); or
  `(B) the weapon was lawfully transferred to the person after the effective
  date of this subsection.
  `(2) It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer an assault weapon,
  unless--
  `(A) the weapon was lawfully and continuously possessed by the person
  since before the date the weapon is included in the list set forth in
  section 921(a)(30); and
  `(B) the transfer is in accordance with regulations prescribed by the
  Secretary.'.
  (b) ASSAULT WEAPON DEFINED- Section 921(a) of such title is amended by adding
  after the paragraph added by section 2001(b) of this Act the following:
  `(30)(A) The term `assault weapon' means any of the following weapons,
  or a copy thereof:
  `(i) Action Arms Israeli Military Industries UZI and Galil.
  `(ii) Auto Ordnance 27A1 Thompson, 27A5 Thompson, and M1 Thompson.
  `(iii) Beretta AR-70 (SC-70).
  `(iv) Colt AR-15 and CAR-15.
  `(v) Fabrique Nationale FN/FAL, FN/LAR, and FNC.
  `(vi) INTRATEC TEC-9.
  `(vii) MAC 10 and 11.
  `(viii) Norinco, Mitchell, and Poly Technologies Avtomat Kalashnikovs.
  `(ix) Springfield BM59, SAR48, and G3SA.
  `(x) Steyr AUG.
  `(xi) Street Sweeper and Striker 12.
  `(xii) All Ruger Mini-14 models with folding stocks.
  `(xiii) Armscorp FAL.
  `(B) The term `copy' means, with respect to a weapon specified in
  subparagraph (A), a weapon, by whatever name known, which embodies the
  same basic configuration as the weapon so specified.'.
  (c) AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY TO RECOMMEND MODIFICATIONS
  TO THE LIST OF ASSAULT WEAPONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 931. Recommendation of modifications to the list of assault weapons
  `From time to time, the Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney
  General, may recommend to the Congress that certain weapons be added to,
  or removed from, the list set forth in section 921(a)(30).'.
  (2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  44 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
`931. Recommendation of modifications to the list of assault weapons.'.
  (d) PENALTIES-
  (1) UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR TRANSFER OF ASSAULT WEAPON- Section 924(a)(1)(B)
  of such title is amended by striking `or (q)' and inserting `(r), or (s)'.
  (2) ENHANCED PENALTY FOR POSSESSION OR USE OF ASSAULT WEAPON DURING CRIME
  OF VIOLENCE OR DRUG TRAFFICKING CRIME- Section 924(c)(1) of such title,
  as amended by section 2001(a) of this Act, is amended by inserting `an
  assault weapon,' after `semiautomatic firearm,'.
  (e) REGULATIONS GOVERNING TRANSFER OF ASSAULT WEAPONS-
  (1) REGULATIONS- Section 926 of such title is amended by adding at the
  end the following:
  `(d) Within 60 days after the date of the enactment of this subsection,
  the Secretary shall prescribe regulations governing the transfer of assault
  weapons, which shall allow such a transfer to proceed within 30 days after
  the Secretary receives such documentation as the Secretary may require to
  be submitted with respect to the transfer, and shall include provisions for
  determining whether the transferee is a person described in section 922(g).'.
  (2) PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS- Section 924(a) of such title
  is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `paragraph (2) or (3) of'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following:
  `(5) Whoever, in violation of a regulation issued under section 926(d),
  transfers an assault weapon that has been lawfully and continuously
  possessed by the person since before the date the weapon is included in
  the list set forth in section 921(a)(30) shall be fined not more than $500.'.
Subtitle C--Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Devices
SEC. 2031. PROHIBITION AGAINST POSSESSION OR TRANSFER OF LARGE CAPACITY
AMMUNITION FEEDING DEVICES.
  (a) PROHIBITION- Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding after the subsection added by section 2021(a) of this Act the
  following:
  `(t)(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or transfer any
  large capacity ammunition feeding device.
  `(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any otherwise lawful possession or
  otherwise lawful transfer of a large capacity ammunition feeding device that
  was lawfully possessed before the date of the enactment of this subsection.'.
  (b) LARGE CAPACITY AMMUNITION FEEDING DEVICE DEFINED- Section 921(a) of
  such title is amended by adding after the paragraphs added by sections
  2001(b) and 2021(b) of this Act the following:
  `(31)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term `large capacity
  ammunition feeding device' means--
  `(i) a detachable magazine, belt, drum, feed strip, or similar device which
  has, or which can be readily restored or converted to have, a capacity of
  more than 7 rounds of ammunition; and
  `(ii) any part or combination of parts, designed or intended to convert
  a detachable magazine, belt, drum, feed strip, or similar device into a
  device described in clause (i).
  `(B) The term `large capacity ammunition feeding device' does not include
  any attached tubular device designed to accept and capable of operating
  with only .22 rimfire caliber ammunition.'.
  (c) PENALTY- Section 924(a)(1)(B) of such title, as amended by section
  2021(d)(1) of this Act, is amended by striking `or (s)' and inserting
  `(s), or (t)'.
  (d) REGULATIONS- Section 926 of such title is amended by adding after the
  subsection added by section 2021(e)(1) of this Act the following:
  `(e) The Secretary shall promulgate regulations requiring manufacturers
  of large capacity ammunition feeding devices to stamp each such device
  manufactured after the date of the enactment of this subsection with a
  permanent distinguishing mark selected in accordance with regulations.'.
TITLE XXI--SPORTS GAMBLING
SEC. 2101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be referred to as the `Professional and Amateur Sports
  Protection Act'.
SEC. 2102. PROFESSIONAL AND AMATEUR SPORTS PROTECTION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Part VI of title 28 of the United States Code is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
`CHAPTER 178--PROFESSIONAL AND AMATEUR SPORTS PROTECTION
`Sec.
`3701. Definitions.
`3702. Unlawful sports gambling.
`3703. Injunctions.
`3704. Applicability.
`Sec. 3701. Definitions
  `For purposes of this chapter--
  `(1) the term `amateur sports organization' means--
  `(A) a person or governmental entity that sponsors, organizes, or conducts
  a competitive game in which one or more amateur athletes participate, or
  `(B) a league or association of persons or governmental entities described
  in subparagraph (A),
  `(2) the term `governmental entity' means a State, a political subdivision
  of a State, or an entity or organization that has governmental authority
  over a geographical area that is under the authority of the Government of
  the United States,
  `(3) the term `professional sports organization' means--
  `(A) a person or governmental entity that sponsors, organizes, or conducts
  a competitive game in which one or more professional athletes participate, or
  `(B) a league or association of persons or governmental entities described
  in subparagraph (A),
  `(4) the term `person' has the meaning given such term in section 1 of
  title 1, and
  `(5) the term `State' means any of the several States, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern
  Mariana Islands, Palau, or any territory or possession of the United States.
`Sec. 3702. Unlawful sports gambling
  `It shall be unlawful for--
  `(1) a governmental entity to sponsor, operate, advertise, promote, license,
  or authorize by law, or
  `(2) a person to sponsor, operate, advertise, or promote, pursuant to the
  law of a governmental entity,
a lottery, sweepstakes, or other betting, gambling, or wagering scheme
based, directly or indirectly (through the use of geographical references or
otherwise), on one or more competitive games in which amateur or professional
athletes participate, or are intended to participate, or on one or more
performances of such athletes in such games.
`Sec. 3703. Injunctions
  `A civil action to enjoin a violation of section 3702 may be commenced in
  an appropriate district court of the United States by the Attorney General
  of the United States, or by a professional sports organization or amateur
  sports organization whose competitive game is alleged to be the basis of
  such violation.
`Sec. 3704. Applicability
  `Section 3702 shall not apply to--
  `(1) a lottery, sweepstakes, or other betting, gambling, or wagering scheme
  in operation in a governmental entity, to the extent that the particular
  scheme was in operation in the period beginning September 1, 1989, and
  ending August 31, 1990, in such governmental entity pursuant to the law
  of any governmental entity;
  `(2) a commercial casino gaming scheme in operation in a gambling
  establishment (as defined in section 1081 of title 18), to the extent that
  the particular commercial casino gaming scheme is--
  `(A) described in paragraph (1) with respect to a governmental entity, and
  `(B) in operation not later than 2 years after the effective date of
  this chapter, in a governmental entity in which commercial casino gaming
  was in operation in such an establishment throughout the 10-year period
  ending on such effective date pursuant to a comprehensive system of State
  regulation, or
  `(3) parimutuel animal racing.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS- The table of chapters for part VI of title 28,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by amending the item relating to chapter 176 to read as follows:
3001',
and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
3701'.
TITLE XXII--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
SEC. 2201. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) TESTING CERTAIN SEX OFFENDERS FOR HUMAN IMMUNE DEFICIENCY VIRUS- (1)
  Section 506 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3756) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a) by striking `Of' and inserting `Subject to subsection
  (f), of',
  (2) in subsection (c) by striking `subsections (b) and (c)' and inserting
  `subsection (b)',
  (3) in subsection (e) by striking `or (e)' and inserting `or (f)',
  (4) in subsection (f)(1)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A)--
  (i) by striking `, taking into consideration subsection (e) but', and
  (ii) by striking `this subsection,' and inserting `this subsection', and
  (B) in subparagraph (B) by striking `amount' and inserting `funds'.
  (b) CORRECTIONAL OPTIONS GRANTS- (1) Section 515(b) of title I of the
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 is amended--
  (A) by striking `subsection (a) (1) and (2)' and inserting `paragraphs
  (1) and (2) of subsection (a)', and
  (B) in paragraph (2) by striking `States' and inserting `public agencies'.
  (2) Section 516 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
  Act of 1968 is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a) by striking `for section' each place it appears and
  inserting `shall be used to make grants under section', and
  (B) in subsection (b) by striking `section 515(a)(1) or (a)(3)' and inserting
  `paragraph (1) or (3) of section 515(a)'.
  (3) Section 1001(a)(5) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
  Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793(a)(5)) is amended by inserting `(other
  than chapter B of subpart 2)' after `and E'.
  (c) DENIAL OR TERMINATION OF GRANT- Section 802(b) of title I of the
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3783(b))
  is amended by striking `M,' and inserting `M,'.
  (d) DEFINITIONS- Section 901(a)(21) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control
  and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3791(21)) is amended by adding a
  semicolon at the end.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 1001(a) of title I of the
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793(a))
  is amended in paragraph (3) by striking `and N' and inserting `N, O, P,
  Q, R, S, T, U, V, and W'.
  (f) PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICERS DISABILITY BENEFITS- Title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796) is amended--
  (1) in section 1201--
  (A) in subsection (a) by striking `subsection (g)' and inserting `subsection
  (h),', and
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) by striking `subsection (g)' and inserting `subsection (h)',
  (ii) by striking `personal', and
  (iii) in the first proviso by striking `section' and inserting `subsection',
  and
  (2) in section 1204(3) by striking `who was responding to a fire, rescue
  or police emergency'.
  (g) HEADINGS- (1) The heading for part M of title I of the Omnibus Crime
  Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797) is amended to read
  as follows:
`PART M--REGIONAL INFORMATION SHARING SYSTEMS'.
  (2) The heading for part O of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
  Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797) is amended to read as follows:
`PART O--RURAL DRUG ENFORCEMENT'.
  (h) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 is amended--
  (1) in the item relating to section 501 by striking `Drug Control and System
  Improvement Grant' and inserting `drug control and system improvement grant',
  (2) in the item relating to section 1403 by striking `Application' and
  inserting `Applications', and
  (3) in the items relating to part O by redesignating sections 1401 and
  1402 as sections 1501 and 1502, respectively.
  (i) OTHER TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and
  Safe Streets Act of 1968 is amended--
  (1) in section 202(c)(2)(E) by striking `crime,,' and inserting `crime,',
  (2) in section 302(c)(19) by striking a period at the end and inserting
  a semicolon,
  (3) in section 602(a)(1) by striking `chapter 315' and inserting `chapter
  319',
  (4) in section 603(a)(6) by striking `605' and inserting `606',
  (5) in section 605 by striking `this section' and inserting `this part',
  (6) in section 606(b) by striking `and Statistics' and inserting
  `Statistics',
  (7) in section 801(b)--
  (A) by striking `parts D,' and inserting `parts',
  (B) by striking `part D' each place it appears and inserting `subpart 1
  of part E',
  (C) by striking `403(a)' and inserting `501', and
  (D) by striking `403' and inserting `503',
  (8) in the first sentence of section 802(b) by striking `part D,' and
  inserting `subpart 1 of part E or under part',
  (9) in the second sentence of section 804(b) by striking `Prevention or'
  and inserting `Prevention, or',
  (10) in section 808 by striking `408, 1308,' and inserting `507',
  (11) in section 809(c)(2)(H) by striking `805' and inserting `804',
  (12) in section 811(e) by striking `Law Enforcement Assistance
  Administration' and inserting `Bureau of Justice Assistance',
  (13) in section 901(a)(3) by striking `and,' and inserting `, and',
  (14) in section 1001(c) by striking `parts' and inserting `part'.
  (j) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO OTHER LAW- Section 4351(b) of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by striking `Administrator of the Law
  Enforcement Assistance Administration' and inserting `Director of the
  Bureau of Justice Assistance'.
SEC. 2202. GENERAL TITLE 18 CORRECTIONS.
  (a) SECTION 1031- Section 1031(g)(2) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by striking `a government' and inserting `a Government'.
  (b) SECTION 208- Section 208(c)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is
  amended by striking `Banks' and inserting `banks'.
  (c) SECTION 1007- The heading for section 1007 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `Transactions' and inserting `transactions'
  in lieu thereof.
  (d) SECTION 1014- Section 1014 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by striking the comma which follows a comma.
  (e) ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE CROSS REFERENCE- Section 3293 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by striking `1008,'.
  (f) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATE SUBSECTION DESIGNATION- Section 1031 of title
  18, United States Code, is amended by redesignating the second subsection
  (g) as subsection (h).
  (g) CLERICAL AMENDMENT TO PART I TABLE OF CHAPTERS- The item relating to
  chapter 33 in the table of chapters for part I of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `701' and inserting `700'.
SEC. 2203. CORRECTIONS OF ERRONEOUS CROSS REFERENCES AND MISDESIGNATIONS.
  (a) Section 1791(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `(c)' wherever it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `(d)'.
  (b) Section 1956(c)(7)(D) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  striking `section 1822 of the Mail Order Drug Paraphernalia Control Act
  (100 Stat. 3207-51; 21 U.S.C. 857)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section
  422 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 863)'.
  (c) Section 2703(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `section 3126(2)(A)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 3127(2)(A)'.
  (d) Section 666(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating the 4th paragraph relating to the definition of the
  term `State' as paragraph (5);
  (2) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3); and
  (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting `; and'.
  (e) Section 4247(h) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `subsection (e) of section 4241, 4243, 4244, 4245, or 4246,' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `subsection (e) of section 4241, 4244, 4245, or 4246,
  or subsection (f) of section 4243,'.
  (f) Section 408(b)(2)(A) of the Controlled Substances Act (21
  U.S.C. 848(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking `subsection (d)(1)' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `subsection (c)(1)'.
  (g)(1) Section 994(h) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
  striking `section 1 of the Act of September 15, 1980 (21 U.S.C. 955a)'
  each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `the Maritime Drug
  Law Enforcement Act (46 U.S.C. App. 1901 et seq.)'.
  (2) Section 924(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `the first section or section 3 of Public Law 96-350 (21 U.S.C. 955a et
  seq.)' and inserting in lieu thereof `the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act
  (46 U.S.C. App. 1901 et seq.)'.
  (h) Section 2596(d) of the Crime Control Act of 1990 is amended, effective
  retroactively to the date of enactment of such Act, by striking `951(c)(1)'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `951(c)(2)'.
SEC. 2204. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS IN TITLE 18.
  Title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in section 212, by striking `or of any National Agricultural
  Credit Corporation,' and by striking `or National Agricultural Credit
  Corporations,';
  (2) in section 213, by striking `or examiner of National Agricultural
  Credit Corporations';
  (3) in section 709, by striking the seventh and thirteenth paragraphs;
  (4) in section 711, by striking the second paragraph;
  (5) by striking section 754, and amending the table of sections for chapter
  35 by striking the item relating to section 754;
  (6) in sections 657 and 1006, by striking `Reconstruction Finance
  Corporation,', and by striking `Farmers' Home Corporation,';
  (7) in section 658, by striking `Farmers' Home Corporation,';
  (8) in section 1013, by striking `, or by any National Agricultural Credit
  Corporation';
  (9) in section 1160, by striking `white person' and inserting `non-Indian';
  (10) in section 1698, by striking the second paragraph;
  (11) by striking sections 1904 and 1908, and amending the table of sections
  for chapter 93 by striking the items relating to such sections;
  (12) in section 1909, by inserting `or' before `farm credit examiner' and
  by striking `or an examiner of National Agricultural Credit Corporations,';
  (13) by striking sections 2157 and 2391, and amending the table of sections
  for chapters 105 and 115, respectively, by striking the items relating to
  such sections;
  (14) in section 2257 by striking the subsections (f) and (g) that were
  enacted by Public Law 100-690;
  (15) in section 3113, by striking the third paragraph; and
  (16) in section 3281, by striking `except for offenses barred by the
  provisions of law existing on August 4, 1939'.
SEC. 2205. CORRECTION OF DRAFTING ERROR IN THE FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT.
  Section 104 of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (15 U.S.C. 78dd-2)
  is amended, in subsection (a)(3), by striking `issuer' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `domestic concern'.
SEC. 2206. ELIMINATION OF REDUNDANT PENALTY PROVISION IN 18 U.S.C. 1116.
  Section 1116(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `, and any such person who is found guilty of attempted murder shall be
  imprisoned for not more than twenty years'.
SEC. 2207. ELIMINATION OF REDUNDANT PENALTY.
  Section 1864(c) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking `(b)
  (3), (4), or (5)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(b)(5)'.
SEC. 2208. CORRECTIONS OF MISSPELLINGS AND GRAMMATICAL ERRORS.
  Title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in section 513(c)(4), by striking `association or persons' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `association of persons';
  (2) in section 1956(e), by striking `Evironmental' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `Environmental';
  (3) in section 3125, by striking the quotation marks in paragraph (a)(2),
  and by striking `provider for' and inserting in lieu thereof `provider of'
  in subsection (d); and
  (4) in section 3731, by striking `order of a district courts' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `order of a district court' in the second undesignated
  paragraph.
TITLE XXIII--DEATH PENALTY PROCEDURES
SEC. 2301. DEATH PENALTY PROCEDURES.
  (a) TITLE 18 AMENDMENT- Title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding
  the following new chapter after chapter 227:
`CHAPTER 228--DEATH PENALTY PROCEDURES
`Sec.
`3591. Sentence of death.
`3592. Factors to be considered in determining whether a sentence of death
is justified.
`3593. Special hearing to determine whether a sentence of death is justified.
`3594. Imposition of a sentence of death.
`3595. Review of a sentence of death.
`3596. Implementation of a sentence of death.
`3596A. Special provisions for Indian country.
`3597. Use of State facilities.
`3598. Appointment of counsel.
`3599. Collateral attack on judgment imposing sentence of death.
`Sec. 3591. Sentence of death
  `A defendant who has been found guilty of--
  `(1) an offense described in section 794 or section 2381 of this title;
  `(2) an offense described in section 1751(c)(2) of this title;
  `(3) an offense referred to in section 408(c)(1) of the Controlled Substances
  Act, committed as part of a continuing criminal enterprise offense under
  the conditions described in subsection (b) of that section which involved
  not less than twice the quantity of controlled substance described in
  subsection (b)(2)(A) of that section or twice the gross receipts described
  in subsection (b)(2)(B) of that section;
  `(4) an offense constituting a felony violation of the Controlled Substances
  Act, the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, or the Maritime
  Drug Law Enforcement Act where the defendant knowingly or intentionally
  causes the death of another individual in the course of the violation or
  from the use of the controlled substance involved in the violation;
  `(5) an offense under section 922(u) of this title (relating to drive-by
  shooting);
  `(6) an offense under section 36, 2280, 2281, 2332, 2339, or 2340A of
  this title, or section 902(i) or 902(n) of the Federal Aviation Act of
  1958 in which the defendant, as determined beyond a reasonable doubt at a
  sentencing proceeding under this chapter, intentionally, knowingly, or with
  reckless disregard for human life, caused the death of another individual; or
  `(7) any other offense--
  `(A) for which a sentence of death is provided by law; and
  `(B) in which the defendant, as determined beyond a reasonable doubt at
  a sentencing proceeding under this chapter, intentionally or knowingly
  caused the death of another individual,
shall be sentenced to death if, after consideration of the factors set forth
in section 3592 in the course of a hearing held pursuant to section 3593, it
is determined that imposition of a sentence of death is justified. However,
no person may be sentenced to death who was less than 18 years of age at
the time of the offense.
`Sec. 3592. Factors to be considered in determining whether a sentence of
death is justified
  `(a) MITIGATING FACTORS- In determining whether a sentence of death is
  justified for any offense, the jury, or if there is no jury, the court,
  shall consider each of the following mitigating factors and determine which,
  if any, exist:
  `(1) MENTAL CAPACITY- The defendant's mental capacity to appreciate the
  wrongfulness of his conduct or to conform his conduct to the requirements
  of law was significantly impaired, regardless of whether the capacity was
  so impaired as to constitute a defense to the charge.
  `(2) DURESS- The defendant was under duress, regardless of whether the
  duress was of such a degree as to constitute a defense to the charge.
  `(3) PARTICIPATION IN OFFENSE MINOR- The defendant's participation in the
  offense was relatively minor, regardless of whether the participation was
  so minor as to constitute a defense to the charge.
  `(4) FORESEEABILITY- The defendant could not reasonably have foreseen
  that the defendant's conduct in the course of the commission of murder,
  or other offense resulting in death for which the defendant was convicted,
  would cause, or would create a grave risk of causing, death to any person.
  `(5) YOUTH- The defendant was youthful, although not under the age of 18.
  `(6) PRIOR RECORD- The defendant did not have a significant prior criminal
  record.
  `(7) MENTAL OR EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCE- The defendant committed the offense
  under severe mental or emotional disturbance.
  `(8) PUNISHMENT OF OTHERS EQUALLY CULPABLE- Another defendant or defendants,
  equally culpable in the crime, will not be punished by death.
  `(9) CONSENT OF VICTIM- The victim consented to the criminal conduct that
  resulted in the victim's death.
The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall consider whether any
other aspect of the defendant's background, character or record or any other
circumstance of the offense that the defendant may proffer as a mitigating
factor exists.
  `(b) AGGRAVATING FACTORS FOR ESPIONAGE AND TREASON- In determining whether a
  sentence of death is justified for an offense described in section 3591(1),
  the jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall consider each of the
  following aggravating factors for which notice has been given and determine
  which, if any, exist:
  `(1) PREVIOUS ESPIONAGE OR TREASON CONVICTION- The defendant has previously
  been convicted of another offense involving espionage or treason for which
  a sentence of life imprisonment or death was authorized by statute.
  `(2) RISK OF SUBSTANTIAL DANGER TO NATIONAL SECURITY- In the commission of
  the offense the defendant knowingly created a grave risk to the national
  security.
  `(3) RISK OF DEATH TO ANOTHER- In the commission of the offense the
  defendant knowingly created a grave risk of death to another person.
The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, may consider whether any other
aggravating factor for which notice has been given exists.
  `(c) AGGRAVATING FACTORS FOR HOMICIDE AND FOR ATTEMPTED MURDER OF THE
  PRESIDENT- In determining whether a sentence of death is justified for
  an offense described in section 3591(2) or (5) through (7), the jury,
  or if there is no jury, the court, shall consider each of the following
  aggravating factors for which notice has been given and determine which,
  if any, exist:
  `(1) CONDUCT OCCURRED DURING COMMISSION OF SPECIFIED CRIMES- The conduct
  resulting in death occurred during the commission or attempted commission
  of, or during the immediate flight from the commission of, an offense under
  section 32 (destruction of aircraft or aircraft facilities), section 33
  (destruction of motor vehicles or motor vehicle facilities), section 36
  (violence at international airports), section 351 (violence against Members
  of Congress, Cabinet officers, or Supreme Court Justices), section 751
  (prisoners in custody of institution or officer), section 794 (gathering or
  delivering defense information to aid foreign government), section 844(d)
  (transportation of explosives in interstate commerce for certain purposes),
  section 844(f) (destruction of Government property by explosives),
  section 844(i) (destruction of property affecting interstate commerce by
  explosives), section 1116 (killing or attempted killing of diplomats),
  section 1118 (prisoners serving life term), section 1201 (kidnapping),
  section 1203 (hostage taking), section 1751 (violence against the President
  or Presidential staff), section 1992 (wrecking trains), section 2280
  (maritime violence), section 2281 (maritime platform violence), section 2332
  (terrorist acts abroad against United States nationals), section 2339 (use
  of weapons of mass destruction), or section 2381 (treason) of this title,
  section 1826 of title 28 (persons in custody as recalcitrant witnesses or
  hospitalized following insanity acquittal), or section 902 (i) or (n) of
  the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1472 (i) or (n)
  (aircraft piracy)), unless the above-listed offense is the offense for
  which the death penalty is being sought.
  `(2) INVOLVEMENT OF FIREARM OR PREVIOUS CONVICTION OF VIOLENT FELONY
  INVOLVING FIREARM- The defendant--
  `(A) during and in relation to the commission of the offense or in escaping
  or attempting to escape apprehension used a firearm as defined in section
  921 of this title; or
  `(B) has previously been convicted of a Federal or State offense punishable
  by a term of imprisonment of more than one year, involving the use of a
  firearm, as defined in section 921 of this title, against another person.
  `(3) PREVIOUS CONVICTION OF OFFENSE FOR WHICH A SENTENCE OF DEATH OR LIFE
  IMPRISONMENT WAS AUTHORIZED- The defendant has previously been convicted
  of another Federal or State offense resulting in the death of a person,
  for which a sentence of life imprisonment or death was authorized by statute.
  `(4) PREVIOUS CONVICTION OF OTHER SERIOUS OFFENSES- The defendant has
  previously been convicted of two or more Federal or State offenses, each
  punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than one year, committed
  on different occasions, involving the importation, manufacture, or
  distribution of a controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of
  the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) or the infliction of, or
  attempted infliction of, serious bodily injury or death upon another person.
  `(5) GRAVE RISK OF DEATH TO ADDITIONAL PERSONS- The defendant, in
  the commission of the offense or in escaping or attempting to escape
  apprehension, knowingly created a grave risk of death to one or more
  persons in addition to the victim of the offense.
  `(6) HEINOUS, CRUEL OR DEPRAVED MANNER OF COMMISSION- The defendant
  committed the offense in an especially heinous, cruel, or depraved manner
  in that it involved torture or serious physical abuse to the victim.
  `(7) PROCUREMENT OF OFFENSE BY PAYMENT- The defendant procured the commission
  of the offense by payment, or promise of payment, of anything of pecuniary
  value, unless this is an element of the offense.
  `(8) COMMISSION OF THE OFFENSE FOR PECUNIARY GAIN- The defendant committed
  the offense as consideration for the receipt, or in the expectation of
  the receipt, of anything of pecuniary value, unless this is an element of
  the offense.
  `(9) SUBSTANTIAL PLANNING AND PREMEDITATION- The defendant committed the
  offense after substantial planning and premeditation.
  `(10) VULNERABILITY OF VICTIM- The victim was particularly vulnerable due
  to old age, youth, or infirmity, and the defendant was or should have been
  aware of that old age, youth, or infirmity.
  `(11) TYPE OF VICTIM- The defendant committed the offense against--
  `(A) the President of the United States, the President-elect, the Vice
  President, the Vice President-elect, the Vice President-designate, or,
  if there was no Vice President, the officer next in order of succession
  to the office of the President of the United States, or any person acting
  as President under the Constitution and laws of the United States;
  `(B) a chief of state, head of government, or the political equivalent,
  of a foreign nation;
  `(C) a foreign official listed in section 1116(b)(3)(A) of this title,
  if that official was in the United States on official business; or
  `(D) a Federal public servant who was outside of the United States or
  who was a Federal judge, a Federal law enforcement officer, an employee
  (including a volunteer or contract employee) of a Federal prison, or an
  official of the Federal Bureau of Prisons--
  `(i) while such public servant was engaged in the performance of his
  official duties;
  `(ii) because of the performance of such public servant's official duties; or
  `(iii) because of such public servant's status as a public servant.
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms `President-elect' and `Vice
President-elect' mean such persons as are the apparent successful candidates
for the offices of President and Vice President, respectively, as ascertained
from the results of the general elections held to determine the electors of
President and Vice President in accordance with title 3, United States Code,
sections 1 and 2; a `Federal law enforcement officer' is a public servant
authorized by law or by a Government agency or Congress to conduct or engage
in the prevention, investigation, or prosecution of an offense; `Federal
prison' means a Federal correctional, detention, or penal facility, Federal
community treatment center, or Federal halfway house, or any such prison
operated under contract with the Federal Government; and `Federal judge'
means any judicial officer of the United States, and includes a justice of
the Supreme Court and a United States magistrate judge.
The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, may consider whether any other
aggravating factor for which notice has been given exists.
  `(d) AGGRAVATING FACTORS FOR DRUG OFFENSE DEATH PENALTY- In determining
  whether a sentence of death is justified for an offense described in
  section 3591 (3) or (4), the jury, or if there is no jury, the court,
  shall consider each of the following aggravating factors and determine
  which, if any, exist--
  `(1) PREVIOUS CONVICTION OF OFFENSE FOR WHICH A SENTENCE OF DEATH OR LIFE
  IMPRISONMENT WAS AUTHORIZED- The defendant has previously been convicted
  of another Federal or State offense resulting in the death of a person,
  for which a sentence of life imprisonment or death was authorized by statute.
  `(2) PREVIOUS CONVICTION OF OTHER SERIOUS OFFENSES- The defendant has
  previously been convicted of two or more Federal or State offenses, each
  punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than one year, committed
  on different occasions, involving the importation, manufacture, or
  distribution of a controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of
  the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) or the infliction of, or
  attempted infliction of, serious bodily injury or death upon another person.
  `(3) PREVIOUS SERIOUS DRUG FELONY CONVICTION- The defendant has previously
  been convicted of another Federal or State offense involving the manufacture,
  distribution, importation, or possession of a controlled substance (as
  defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802))
  for which a sentence of five or more years of imprisonment was authorized
  by statute.
  `(4) USE OF FIREARM- In committing the offense, or in furtherance of
  a continuing criminal enterprise of which the offense was a part, the
  defendant used a firearm or knowingly directed, advised, authorized, or
  assisted another to use a firearm, as defined in section 921 of this title,
  to threaten, intimidate, assault, or injure a person.
  `(5) DISTRIBUTION TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE- The offense, or a continuing
  criminal enterprise of which the offense was a part, involved conduct
  proscribed by section 418 of the Controlled Substances Act which was
  committed directly by the defendant or for which the defendant would be
  liable under section 2 of this title.
  `(6) DISTRIBUTION NEAR SCHOOLS- The offense, or a continuing criminal
  enterprise of which the offense was a part, involved conduct proscribed by
  section 419 of the Controlled Substances Act which was committed directly
  by the defendant or for which the defendant would be liable under section
  2 of this title.
  `(7) USING MINORS IN TRAFFICKING- The offense, or a continuing criminal
  enterprise of which the offense was a part, involved conduct proscribed by
  section 420 of the Controlled Substances Act which was committed directly
  by the defendant or for which the defendant would be liable under section
  2 of this title.
  `(8) LETHAL ADULTERANT- The offense involved the importation, manufacture,
  or distribution of a controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the
  Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)), mixed with a potentially lethal
  adulterant, and the defendant was aware of the presence of the adulterant.
The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, may consider whether any other
aggravating factor for which notice has been given exists.
`Sec. 3593. Special hearing to determine whether a sentence of death is
justified
  `(a) NOTICE BY THE GOVERNMENT- Whenever the Government intends to seek the
  death penalty for an offense described in section 3591, the attorney for
  the Government, a reasonable time before the trial, or before acceptance
  by the court of a plea of guilty, shall sign and file with the court,
  and serve on the defendant, a notice that the Government in the event of
  conviction will seek the sentence of death. The notice shall set forth
  the aggravating factor or factors enumerated in section 3592, and any
  other aggravating factor not specifically enumerated in section 3592,
  that the Government, if the defendant is convicted, will seek to prove as
  the basis for the death penalty. The factors for which notice is provided
  under this subsection may include factors concerning the effect of the
  offense on the victim and the victim's family. The court shall permit the
  attorney for the Government to amend the notice upon a showing of good
  cause a reasonable time before the sentencing phase of the trial begins.
  `(b) HEARING BEFORE A COURT OR JURY- When the attorney for the Government
  has filed a notice as required under subsection (a) and the defendant is
  found guilty of or pleads guilty to an offense described in section 3591,
  the judge who presided at the trial or before whom the guilty plea was
  entered, or another judge if that judge is unavailable, shall conduct a
  separate sentencing hearing to determine the punishment to be imposed. Prior
  to such a hearing, no presentence report shall be prepared by the United
  States Probation Service, notwithstanding the provisions of the Federal
  Rules of Criminal Procedure. The hearing shall be conducted--
  `(1) before the jury that determined the defendant's guilt;
  `(2) before a jury impaneled for the purpose of the hearing if--
  `(A) the defendant was convicted upon a plea of guilty;
  `(B) the defendant was convicted after a trial before the court sitting
  without a jury;
  `(C) the jury that determined the defendant's guilt was discharged for
  good cause; or
  `(D) after initial imposition of a sentence under this section,
  reconsideration of the sentence under the section is necessary; or
  `(3) before the court alone, upon motion of the defendant and with the
  approval of the attorney for the Government.
A jury impaneled pursuant to paragraph (2) shall consist of twelve members,
unless, at any time before the conclusion of the hearing, the parties
stipulate, with the approval of the court, that it shall consist of a
lesser number.
  `(c) PROOF OF MITIGATING AND AGGRAVATING FACTORS- At the hearing, information
  may be presented as to--
  `(1) any matter relating to any mitigating factor listed in section 3592
  and any other mitigating factor; and
  `(2) any matter relating to any aggravating factor listed in section 3592
  for which notice has been provided under subsection (a) and (if information
  is presented relating to such a listed factor) any other aggravating factor
  for which notice has been so provided.
The information presented may include the trial transcript and exhibits. Any
other information relevant to such mitigating or aggravating factors may
be presented by either the Government or the defendant, regardless of its
admissibility under the rules governing admission of evidence at criminal
trials, except that information may be excluded if its probative value is
outweighed by the danger of creating unfair prejudice, confusing the issues,
or misleading the jury. The attorney for the Government and for the defendant
shall be permitted to rebut any information received at the hearing, and
shall be given fair opportunity to present argument as to the adequacy of
the information to establish the existence of any aggravating or mitigating
factor, and as to the appropriateness in that case of imposing a sentence of
death. The attorney for the Government shall open the argument. The defendant
shall be permitted to reply. The Government shall then be permitted to reply
in rebuttal. The burden of establishing the existence of an aggravating
factor is on the Government, and is not satisfied unless the existence
of such a factor is established beyond a reasonable doubt. The burden of
establishing the existence of any mitigating factor is on the defendant,
and is not satisfied unless the existence of such a factor is established
by a preponderance of the evidence.
  `(d) RETURN OF SPECIAL FINDINGS- The jury, or if there is no jury, the
  court, shall consider all the information received during the hearing. It
  shall return special findings identifying any aggravating factor or factors
  set forth in section 3592 found to exist and any other aggravating factor
  for which notice has been provided under subsection (a) found to exist. A
  finding with respect to a mitigating factor may be made by one or more
  members of the jury, and any member of the jury who finds the existence of a
  mitigating factor may consider such factor established for purposes of this
  section regardless of the number of jurors who concur that the factor has
  been established. A finding with respect to any aggravating factor must be
  unanimous. If no aggravating factor set forth in section 3592 is found to
  exist, the court shall impose a sentence other than death authorized by law.
  `(e) RETURN OF A FINDING CONCERNING A SENTENCE OF DEATH- If, in the case of--
  `(1) an offense described in section 3591(1), an aggravating factor required
  to be considered under section 3592(b) is found to exist;
  `(2) an offense described in section 3591 (2) or (5)-(7), an aggravating
  factor required to be considered under section 3592(c) is found to exist; or
  `(3) an offense described in section 3591 (3) or (4), an aggravating factor
  required to be considered under section 3592(d) is found to exist;
the jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall then consider whether
the aggravating factor or factors found to exist under subsection (d)
outweigh any mitigating factor or factors. The jury, or if there is no jury,
the court shall recommend a sentence of death if it unanimously finds at
least one aggravating factor and no mitigating factor or if it finds one
or more aggravating factors which outweigh any mitigating factors. In any
other case, it shall not recommend a sentence of death. The jury shall be
instructed that it is never required to impose a death sentence and that it
must avoid any influence of sympathy, sentiment, passion, prejudice, or other
arbitrary factors in its decision, and should make such a recommendation as
the information warrants.
  `(f) SPECIAL PRECAUTION TO ASSURE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION- In a hearing held
  before a jury, the court, prior to the return of a finding under subsection
  (e), shall instruct the jury that, in considering whether a sentence of death
  is justified, it shall not be influenced by prejudice or bias relating to
  the race, color, religion, national origin, or sex of the defendant or of
  any victim and that the jury is not to recommend a sentence of death unless
  it has concluded that it would recommend a sentence of death for the crime
  in question no matter what the race, color, religion, national origin, or
  sex of the defendant or of any victim may be. The jury, upon return of a
  finding under subsection (e), shall also return to the court a certificate,
  signed by each juror, that prejudice or bias relating to the race, color,
  religion, national origin, or sex of the defendant or any victim was not
  involved in reaching his or her individual decision and that the individual
  juror would have made the same recommendation regarding a sentence for
  the crime in question no matter what the race, color, religion, national
  origin, or sex of the defendant or any victim may be.
`Sec. 3594. Imposition of a sentence of death
  `Upon the recommendation under section 3593(e) that a sentence of death
  be imposed, the court shall sentence the defendant to death. Otherwise
  the court shall impose a sentence, other than death, authorized by
  law. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the maximum term of
  imprisonment for the offense is life imprisonment, the court may impose
  a sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of release.
`Sec. 3595. Review of a sentence of death
  `(a) APPEAL- In a case in which a sentence of death is imposed, the
  sentence shall be subject to review by the court of appeals upon appeal
  by the defendant. Notice of appeal of the sentence must be filed within
  the time specified for the filing of a notice of appeal of the judgment of
  conviction. An appeal of the sentence under this section may be consolidated
  with an appeal of the judgment of conviction and shall have priority over
  all other cases.
  `(b) REVIEW- The court of appeals shall review the entire record in the
  case, including--
  `(1) the evidence submitted during the trial;
  `(2) the information submitted during the sentencing hearing;
  `(3) the procedures employed in the sentencing hearing; and
  `(4) the special findings returned under section 3593(d).
  `(c) Decision and Disposition-
  `(1) If the court of appeals determines that--
  `(A) the sentence of death was not imposed under the influence of passion,
  prejudice, or any other arbitrary factor;
  `(B) the evidence and information support the special findings of the
  existence of an aggravating factor or factors; and
  `(C) the proceedings did not involve any other prejudicial error requiring
  reversal of the sentence that was properly preserved for appeal or reflected
  in the record;
it shall affirm the sentence, provided that if any reviewing court determines
that any aggravating factor was not supported by the evidence or is not a
proper aggravating factor, the sentence shall be affirmed if the court finds
that a remaining aggravating factor found to exist is one allowed under
section 3592 and that the remaining aggravating factor or factors found to
exist substantially outweigh any mitigating factors found to exist.
  `(2) In any other case, the court of appeals shall remand the case for
  reconsideration under section 3593 or for imposition of another authorized
  sentence as appropriate.
  `(3) The court of appeals shall state in writing the reasons for its
  disposition of an appeal of a sentence of death under this section.
`Sec. 3596. Implementation of a sentence of death
  `(a) IN GENERAL- A person who has been sentenced to death pursuant to
  the provisions of this chapter shall be committed to the custody of
  the Attorney General until exhaustion of the procedures for appeal of
  the judgment of conviction and for review of the sentence. When the
  sentence is to be implemented, the Attorney General shall release the
  person sentenced to death to the custody of a United States Marshal, who
  shall supervise implementation of the sentence in the manner prescribed
  by the law of the State in which the sentence is imposed. If the law of
  such State does not provide for implementation of a sentence of death,
  the court shall designate another State, the law of which does so provide,
  and the sentence shall be implemented in the manner prescribed by such law.
  `(b) SPECIAL BARS TO EXECUTION- A sentence of death shall not be carried
  out upon a woman while she is pregnant, or upon a person who is mentally
  retarded. A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a person who,
  as a result of mental disability--
  `(1) cannot understand the nature of the pending proceedings, what such
  person was tried for, the reason for the punishment, or the nature of the
  punishment; or
  `(2) lacks the capacity to recognize or understand facts which would make
  the punishment unjust or unlawful, or lacks the ability to convey such
  information to counsel or to the court.
  `(c) EMPLOYEES MAY DECLINE TO PARTICIPATE- No employee of any State
  department of corrections, the Federal Bureau of Prisons, the United
  States Marshals Service, or the United States Department of Justice, and
  no employee providing services to that department, bureau, or service under
  contract shall be required, as a condition of that employment or contractual
  obligation, to be in attendance at or to participate in any execution
  carried out under this section or to participate in the prosecution or
  appeal of any capital case if such participation is contrary to the moral
  or religious convictions of the employee. For purposes of this subsection,
  the term `participate in any execution' includes personal preparation
  of the condemned individual and the apparatus used for the execution,
  and supervision of the activities of other personnel in carrying out
  such activities.
`Sec. 3596A. Special provisions for Indian country
  `Notwithstanding sections 1152 and 1153, no person subject to the criminal
  jurisdiction of an Indian tribal government shall be subject to a capital
  sentence under this chapter for any offense the Federal jurisdiction for
  which is predicated solely on Indian country as defined in section 1151
  of this title, and which has occurred within the boundaries of such Indian
  country, unless the governing body of the tribe has elected that this chapter
  have effect over land and persons subject to its criminal jurisdiction.
`Sec. 3597. Use of State facilities
  `A United States Marshal charged with supervising the implementation of a
  sentence of death may use appropriate State or local facilities for the
  purpose, may use the services of an appropriate State or local official
  or of a person such an official employs for the purpose, and shall pay
  the costs thereof in an amount approved by the Attorney General.
`Sec. 3598. Appointment of counsel
  `(a) REPRESENTATION OF INDIGENT DEFENDANTS- Notwithstanding any other
  provision of law, this section shall govern the appointment of counsel for
  any defendant or applicant against whom a sentence of death may be sought,
  or on whom a sentence of death has been imposed, for an offense against the
  United States, and for any defendant or applicant seeking to vacate or set
  aside a death sentence in a proceeding under section 2254 or 2255 of title
  28, United States Code, where the defendant or applicant is or becomes
  financially unable to obtain adequate representation or investigative,
  expert, or other reasonably necessary services. Such a defendant or
  applicant shall be entitled to appointment of counsel and the furnishing
  of such other services in accordance with subsections (b) through (g).
  `(b) REPRESENTATION BEFORE FINALITY OF JUDGMENT- A defendant or applicant
  within the scope of this section shall have counsel appointed for trial
  representation as provided in section 3005 of this title. Each counsel so
  appointed shall continue to represent the defendant or applicant through
  every subsequent stage of available judicial proceedings, unless replaced
  by the court with similarly qualified counsel.
  `(c) REPRESENTATION AFTER FINALITY OF JUDGMENT- When a judgment of a Federal
  court imposing a sentence of death has become final through affirmance by
  the Supreme Court on direct review, denial of certiorari by the Supreme
  Court on direct review, or expiration of the time for seeking direct
  review in the court of appeals or the Supreme Court, the Government shall
  promptly notify the district court that imposed the sentence. Within ten
  days of receipt of such notice, the district court shall proceed to make
  a determination whether the defendant or applicant is eligible under this
  section for appointment of counsel for subsequent proceedings. On the
  basis of the determination, the court shall issue an order--
  `(1) appointing one or more counsel to represent the defendant or applicant
  upon a finding that the defendant or applicant is financially unable to
  obtain adequate representation and wishes to have counsel appointed or
  is unable competently to decide whether to accept or reject appointment
  of counsel;
  `(2) finding, after a hearing if necessary, that the defendant or applicant
  rejected appointment of counsel and made the decision with an understanding
  of its legal consequences; or
  `(3) denying the appointment of counsel upon a finding that the defendant
  or applicant is financially able to obtain adequate representation.
  `(d) STANDARDS FOR COMPETENCE OF COUNSEL- In relation to a defendant or
  applicant who is entitled to appointment of counsel under this section,
  at least one counsel appointed for trial representation must have been
  admitted to the bar for at least five years and have at least three
  years of experience in the trial of felony cases in the federal district
  courts. If new counsel is appointed after judgment, at least one counsel
  so appointed must have been admitted to practice in the court of appeals
  for at least five years and have at least three years of experience in
  the litigation of felony cases in the Federal courts of appeals or the
  Supreme Court. The court, for good cause, may appoint counsel who does
  not meet these standards, but whose background, knowledge, or experience
  would otherwise enable him or her to properly represent the defendant or
  applicant, with due consideration of the seriousness of the penalty and
  the unique and complex nature of the litigation.
  `(e) APPLICABILITY OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT- Except as otherwise provided
  in this section, the provisions of section 3006A of this title shall apply
  to appointments under this section.
  `(f) ANCILLARY SERVICES- Upon a finding in ex parte proceedings that
  investigative, expert, or other services are reasonably necessary for
  the representation of the defendant or applicant, whether in connection
  with issues relating to guilt or sentence, the court shall authorize the
  defendant's or applicant's attorneys to obtain such services on behalf of
  the defendant or applicant and shall order the payment of fees and expenses
  therefore, under subsection (g). Upon a finding that timely procurement of
  such services could not practicably await prior authorization, the court
  may authorize the provision of and payment for such services nunc pro tunc.
  `(g) RATE OF COMPENSATION- Notwithstanding the rates and maximum limits
  generally applicable to criminal cases and any other provision of law to
  the contrary, the court shall fix the compensation to be paid to attorneys
  appointed under this subsection and the fees and expenses to be paid for
  investigative, expert, and other reasonably necessary services authorized
  under subsection (f), at such rates or amounts as the court determines to
  be reasonably necessary to carry out the requirements of subsections (b)
  through (f).
  `(h) CLAIMS OF INEFFECTIVENESS OF COUNSEL- The ineffectiveness or
  incompetence of counsel during proceedings on a motion under section 2255
  of title 28, United States Code, in a capital case shall not be a ground
  for relief from the judgment or sentence in any proceeding. This limitation
  shall not preclude the appointment of different counsel at any stage of
  the proceedings.
`Sec. 3599. Collateral Attack on Judgment Imposing Sentence of Death
  `(a) TIME FOR MAKING SECTION 2255 MOTION- In a case in which sentence of
  death has been imposed, and the judgment has become final as described in
  section 3598(c) of this title, a motion in the case under section 2255 of
  title 28, United States Code, must be filed within one year of the issuance
  of the order relating to appointment of counsel under section 3598(c) of
  this title. The court in which the motion is filed, for good cause shown,
  may extend the time for filing for a period not exceeding sixty days. A
  motion described in this section shall have priority over all noncapital
  matters in the district court, and in the court of appeals on review of
  the district court's decision.
  `(b) STAY OF EXECUTION- The execution of a sentence of death shall be stayed
  in the course of direct review of the judgment and during the litigation
  of an initial motion in the case under section 2255 of title 28, United
  States Code. The stay shall run continuously following imposition of the
  sentence, and shall expire if--
  `(1) the defendant fails to file a motion under section 2255 of title 28,
  United States Code, within the time specified in subsection (a), or fails
  to make a timely application for court of appeals review following the
  denial of such motion by a district court; or
  `(2) upon completion of district court and court of appeals review under
  section 2255 of title 28, United States Code, the motion under that section
  is denied and (A) the time for filing a petition for certiorari has expired
  and no petition has been filed; (B) a timely petition for certiorari was
  filed and the Supreme Court denied the petition; or (C) a timely petition for
  certiorari was filed and upon consideration of the case, the Supreme Court
  disposed of it in a manner that left the capital sentence undisturbed; or
  `(3) before a district court, in the presence of counsel and after having
  been advised of the consequences of his decision, the defendant waives the
  right to file a motion under section 2255 of title 28, United States Code.
  `(c) FINALITY OF THE DECISION ON REVIEW- If one of the conditions specified
  in subsection (b) has occurred, no court thereafter shall have the authority
  to enter a stay of execution or grant relief in the case unless--
  `(1) the basis for the stay and request for relief is a claim not presented
  in earlier proceedings;
  `(2) the failure to raise the claim was (A) the result of governmental
  action in violation of the Constitution of the United States; (B) the
  result of the Supreme Court recognition of a new Federal right that is
  retroactively applicable; or (C) based on a factual predicate that could
  not have been discovered through the exercise of reasonable diligence in
  time to present the claim in earlier proceedings; and
  `(3) the facts underlying the claim would be sufficient, if proven, to
  undermine the court's confidence in the applicant's guilt of the offense
  or offenses for which the capital sentence was imposed or in the validity
  of the sentence under Federal law.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of chapters for part II of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by adding the following new item after the
  item relating to chapter 227:
3591.'.
  (c) VOIR DIRE- Rule 24(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure is
  amended by adding at the end thereof the following: `In death penalty cases,
  the court shall permit the defendant or his attorney and the attorney
  for the Government to conduct direct, oral examination of any of the
  prospective jurors.'.
TITLE XXIV--DEATH PENALTY
SEC. 2401. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Federal Death Penalty Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2402. DESTRUCTION OF AIRCRAFT OR AIRCRAFT FACILITIES.
  Section 34 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking `to
  the death penalty' and all that follows through the end of the section,
  and inserting `to imprisonment for life. If the death results from an
  intentional killing, the defendant may be sentenced to the death penalty.'.
SEC. 2403. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO ESPIONAGE.
  Section 794(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking the
  period at the end of the section and inserting `, except that the sentence
  of death shall not be imposed unless the jury or, if there is no jury,
  the court, further finds beyond a reasonable doubt at a hearing under
  section 3593 of this title that the offense directly concerned nuclear
  weaponry, military spacecraft and satellites, early warning systems,
  or other means of defense or retaliation against large-scale attack;
  war plans; communications intelligence or cryptographic information;
  sources or methods of intelligence or counterintelligence operations;
  or any other major weapons system or major element of defense strategy.'.
SEC. 2404. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
  Section 844(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `as provided in section 34 of this title'.
SEC. 2405. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF FEDERAL
PROPERTY BY EXPLOSIVES.
  Section 844(f) of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by striking
  `as provided in section 34 of this title'.
SEC. 2406. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF INTERSTATE
PROPERTY BY EXPLOSIVES.
  Section 844(i) of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by striking
  `as provided in section 34 of this title'.
SEC. 2407. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO MURDER.
  The second paragraph of section 1111(b) of title 18 of the United States
  Code is amended to read as follows:
  `Whoever is guilty of murder in the first degree shall be punished by
  death or by imprisonment for life;'.
SEC. 2408. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO KILLING OFFICIAL GUESTS OR
INTERNATIONALLY PROTECTED PERSONS.
  Section 1116(a) of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by striking
  `any such person who is found guilty of murder in the first degree shall
  be sentenced to imprisonment for life'.
SEC. 2409. MURDER BY FEDERAL PRISONER.
  Chapter 51 of title 18 of the United States Code, as amended by section
  1713 of this Act, is amended--
  (1) by adding at the end thereof the following:
`Sec. 1119. Murder by a Federal prisoner
  `(a) Whoever, while confined in a Federal prison under a sentence for a
  term of life imprisonment, murders another shall be punished by death or
  by life imprisonment without the possibility of release.
  `(b) For purposes of this section--
  `(1) `Federal prison' means any Federal correctional, detention, or penal
  facility, Federal community treatment center, or Federal halfway house,
  or any such prison operated under contract with the Federal Government;
  `(2) `term of life imprisonment' means a sentence for the term of natural
  life, a sentence commuted to natural life, an indeterminate term of a
  minimum of at least fifteen years and a maximum of life, or an unexecuted
  sentence of death.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end of the table of sections at the beginning of such
  chapter the following:
`1119. Murder by a Federal prisoner.'.
SEC. 2410. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO KIDNAPPING.
  Section 1201(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  after `or for life' the following `and, if the death of any person results,
  shall be punished by death or life imprisonment'.
SEC. 2411. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO HOSTAGE TAKING.
  Section 1203(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  after `or for life' the following: `and, if the death of any person results,
  shall be punished by death or life imprisonment'.
SEC. 2412. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO MAILABILITY OF INJURIOUS ARTICLES.
  The last paragraph of section 1716 of title 18, United States Code, is
  amended by striking the comma after `imprisonment for life' and all that
  follows to the period at the end of the paragraph.
SEC. 2413. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO PRESIDENTIAL ASSASSINATION.
  Subsection (c) of section 1751 of title 18 of the United States Code is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(c) Whoever attempts to murder or kidnap any individual designated in
  subsection (a) of this section shall be punished--
  `(1) by imprisonment for any term of years or for life, or
  `(2) by death or imprisonment for any term of years or for life, if the
  conduct constitutes an attempt to murder the President of the United
  States and results in serious bodily injury to the President (as defined
  in section 1365 of this title) or comes dangerously close to causing the
  death of the President.'.
SEC. 2414. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO MURDER FOR HIRE.
  Section 1958(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term
  of years or for life, or shall be fined not more than $50,000, or both'
  and inserting `and if death results, shall be punished by death or life
  imprisonment, or shall be fined in accordance with this title, or both'.
SEC. 2415. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO VIOLENT CRIMES IN AID OF
RACKETEERING ACTIVITY.
  Section 1959(a)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(1) for murder, by death or life imprisonment, or a fine in accordance
  with this title, or both; and for kidnapping, by imprisonment for any term
  of years or for life, or a fine in accordance with this title, or both;'.
SEC. 2416. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO WRECKING TRAINS.
  The second to the last paragraph of section 1992 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking the comma after `imprisonment for life' and all
  that follows before the period at the end of that second to last paragraph.
SEC. 2417. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO BANK ROBBERY.
  Section 2113(e) of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by striking
  the words `or punished by death if the verdict of the jury shall so direct'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `or if death results shall be punished by
  death or life imprisonment'.
SEC. 2418. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO TERRORIST ACTS.
  Section 2332(a)(1) of title 18, United States Code, as so redesignated by
  section 1735 of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
  `(1) if the killing is murder as defined in section 1111(a) of this title,
  or if the killing is the result of conduct that constitutes a reckless
  disregard of human life, be fined under this title, punished by death or
  imprisonment for any term of years or for life, or both;'.
SEC. 2419. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO AIRCRAFT HIJACKING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 903 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended
  (49 U.S.C. App. 1473), is amended by striking subsection (c).
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents for the Federal Aviation
  Act of 1958 is amended by striking the item relating to subsection (c)
  of section 903.
SEC. 2420. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO GENOCIDE.
  Section 1091(b)(1) of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by
  striking `a fine of not more than $1,000,000 and imprisonment for life;'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `by death or imprisonment for life, or a
  fine of not more than $1,000,000, or both;'.
SEC. 2421. PROTECTION OF COURT OFFICERS AND JURORS.
  Section 1503 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by designating the current text as subsection (a);
  (2) by striking `fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than
  five years, or both.' and inserting in lieu thereof `punished as provided
  in subsection (b).';
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(b) The punishment for an offense under this section is--
  `(1) in the case of a killing, the punishment provided in sections 1111
  and 1112 of this title;
  `(2) in the case of an attempted killing, or a case in which the offense
  was committed against a petit juror and in which a class A or B felony
  was charged, imprisonment for not more than twenty years; and
  `(3) in any other case, imprisonment for not more than ten years.'; and
  (4) in subsection (a), as designated by this section, by striking
  `commissioner' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
  `magistrate judge'.
SEC. 2422. PROHIBITION OF KILLINGS IN RETALIATION AGAINST WITNESSES, VICTIMS,
AND INFORMANTS.
  Section 1513 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (a) and (b) as subsections (b) and (c),
  respectively; and
  (2) by inserting a new subsection (a) as follows:
  `(a)(1) Whoever kills or attempts to kill another person with intent to
  retaliate against any person for--
  `(A) the attendance of a witness or party at an official proceeding, or
  any testimony given or any record, document, or other object produced by
  a witness in an official proceeding; or
  `(B) any information relating to the commission or possible commission
  of a Federal offense or a violation of conditions of probation, parole or
  release pending judicial proceedings given by a person to a law enforcement
  officer; shall be punished as provided in paragraph (2).
  `(2) The punishment for an offense under this subsection is--
  `(A) in the case of a killing, the punishment provided in sections 1111
  and 1112 of this title; and
  `(B) in the case of an attempt, imprisonment for not more than twenty
  years.'.
SEC. 2423. DEATH PENALTY FOR THE MURDER OF FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
  Section 1114 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `punished as provided under sections 1111 and 1112 of this title,' and
  inserting `punished, in the case of murder, by a sentence of death or life
  imprisonment as provided under section 1111 of this title, or, in the case
  of manslaughter, a sentence as provided under section 1112 of this title,'.
SEC. 2424. DEATH PENALTY FOR THE MURDER OF PERSONS AIDING FEDERAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 51 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by
  section 2409 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 1120. Killing persons aiding Federal investigations
  `Whoever intentionally kills--
  `(1) a State or local official, law enforcement officer, or other officer or
  employee while working with Federal law enforcement officials in furtherance
  of a Federal criminal investigation--
  `(A) while the victim is engaged in the performance of official duties;
  `(B) because of the performance of the victim's official duties; or
  `(C) because of the victim's status as a public servant; or
  `(2) any person assisting a Federal criminal investigation, while the
  assistance is being rendered and because of it,
shall be punished as provided in sections 1111 and 1112 of title 18, United
States Code. Whoever attempts to commit such a killing shall be punished as
provided in section 1113.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  51 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
  following:
`1120. Killing persons aiding Federal investigations.'.
SEC. 2425. AMENDMENT TO FEDERAL AVIATION ACT.
  Section 902(n) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1472(n))
  is amended by--
  (1) striking paragraph (3); and
  (2) redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
SEC. 2426. TORTURE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Part I of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  inserting after chapter 113A the following:
`CHAPTER 113B--TORTURE
`Sec.
`2340. Definitions.
`2340A. Torture.
`2340B. Exclusive remedies.
`Sec. 2340. Definitions
  `As used in this chapter--
  `(1) the term `torture' means an act committed by a person, acting under
  color of law, specifically intended to inflict severe physical or mental pain
  or suffering (other than pain or suffering incidental to lawful sanctions)
  upon another person within the custody or physical control of the actor;
  `(2) the term `severe mental pain or suffering' means the prolonged mental
  harm caused by or resulting from--
  `(A) the intentional infliction or threatened infliction of severe physical
  pain or suffering;
  `(B) the administration or application, or threatened administration or
  application, of mind altering substances or other procedures calculated
  to disrupt profoundly the senses or the personality;
  `(C) the threat of imminent death; or
  `(D) the threat that another person will imminently be subjected to death,
  severe physical pain or suffering, or the administration or application
  of mind altering substances or other procedures calculated to disrupt
  profoundly the senses or personality; and
  `(3) the term `United States' includes all areas under the jurisdiction
  of the United States including any of the places within the provisions of
  sections 5 and 7 of this title and section 101(38) of the Federal Aviation
  Act of 1958.
`Sec. 2340A. Torture
  `(a) Whoever outside the United States commits or attempts to commit torture
  shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than twenty years,
  or both; and if death results to any person from conduct prohibited by
  this subsection, shall be punished by death or imprisoned for any term of
  years or for life.
  `(b) There is jurisdiction over the prohibited activity in subsection
  (a) if--
  `(1) the alleged offender is a national of the United States; or
  `(2) the alleged offender is present in the United States, without regard
  to the nationality of the victim or the alleged offender.
`Sec. 2340B. Exclusive remedies
  `Nothing in this chapter precludes the application of State or local
  laws on the same subject, nor shall anything in this chapter create any
  substantive or procedural right enforceable by law by any party in any
  civil proceeding.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of chapters for part I of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item for chapter
  113B the following new item:
2340'.
SEC. 2427. WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
  (a) OFFENSE- Chapter 113A of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 2339. Use of weapons of mass destruction
  `(a) Whoever uses, or attempts or conspires to use, a weapon of mass
  destruction against--
  `(1) a national of the United States while such national is outside of
  the United States;
  `(2) any person within the United States; or
  `(3) any property that is owned, leased or used by the United States or
  by any department or agency of the United States, whether the property is
  within or outside of the United States;
shall be imprisoned for any term of years or for life, and if death results,
shall be punished by death or imprisoned for any term of years or for life.
  `(b) For purposes of this section--
  `(1) `national of the United States' has the meaning given in section
  101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)); and
  `(2) `weapon of mass destruction' means--
  `(A) any destructive device as defined in section 921 of this title;
  `(B) poison gas;
  `(C) any weapon involving a disease organism; or
  `(D) any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity at
  a level dangerous to human life.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  113A of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end
  the following:
`2339. Use of weapons of mass destruction.'.
SEC. 2428. HOMICIDES AND ATTEMPTED HOMICIDES INVOLVING FIREARMS IN FEDERAL
FACILITIES.
  Section 930 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) as subsections
  (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) respectively;
  (2) in subsection (a), by striking `(c)' and inserting `(d)'; and
  (3) inserting after subsection (b) the following:
  `(c) Whoever kills or attempts to kill any person in the course of a
  violation of subsection (a) or (b), or in the course of an attack on a
  Federal facility involving the use of a firearm or other dangerous weapon,
  shall--
  `(1) in the case of a killing constituting murder as defined in section
  1111(a) of this title, be punished by death or imprisoned for any term of
  years or for life; and
  `(2) in the case of any other killing or an attempted killing, be subject
  to the penalties provided for engaging in such conduct within the special
  maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States under sections
  1112 and 1113 of this title.'.
SEC. 2429. DEATH PENALTY FOR CIVIL RIGHTS MURDERS.
  (a) CONSPIRACY AGAINST RIGHTS- Section 241 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking the period at the end of the last sentence
  and inserting `, or may be sentenced to death.'.
  (b) DEPRIVATION OF RIGHTS UNDER COLOR OF LAW- Section 242 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by striking the period at the end of the
  last sentence and inserting `, or may be sentenced to death.'.
  (c) FEDERALLY PROTECTED ACTIVITIES- Section 245(b) of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended in the matter following paragraph (5) by inserting
  `, or may be sentenced to death' after `or for life'.
  (d) DAMAGE TO RELIGIOUS PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTION OF THE FREE EXERCISE OF
  RELIGIOUS RIGHTS- Section 247(c)(1) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by inserting `, or may be sentenced to death' after `or both'.
SEC. 2430. INTENTIONALLY KILLING A FEDERAL WITNESS IN THE WITNESS PROTECTION
PROGRAM.
  Section 1512 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
  `(d) Whoever violates this section by intentionally killing an individual
  provided protection under section 3521 of this title shall be subject to
  the death penalty.'; and
  (2) by redesignating subsections (d) through (h) as subsections (e) through
  (i).
SEC. 2431. DRIVE-BY SHOOTINGS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding after the subsections added by sections 2021(a) and 2031(a)
  of this Act the following:
  `(u) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly--
  `(1) to discharge a firearm from within a motor vehicle; and
  `(2) thereby create a grave risk to human life.'.
  (b) PENALTY- Section 924(a) of such title is amended by adding after the
  paragraph added by section 2021(e)(2)(B) of this Act the following:
  `(6) Whoever knowingly violates section 922(u) shall be fined under this
  title or imprisoned not more than 25 years, or both, and if death results
  from conduct prohibited by that section, shall be punished by death or
  imprisonment for life or any term of years.'.
SEC. 2432. INAPPLICABILITY TO UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.
  The provisions of chapter 228 of title 18, United States Code, as added
  by this Act, shall not apply to prosecutions under the Uniform Code of
  Military Justice (10 U.S.C. 801 et seq.).
HR 3371 RH----2
HR 3371 RH----3
HR 3371 RH----4
HR 3371 RH----5
HR 3371 RH----6
HR 3371 RH----7
HR 3371 RH----8
HR 3371 RH----9
HR 3371 RH----10
HR 3371 RH----11
HR 3371 RH----12
HR 3371 RH----13
HR 3371 RH----14
HR 3371 RH----15
HR 3371 RH----16
HR 3371 RH----17
HR 3371 RH----18
HR 3371 RH----19
HR 3371 RH----20