William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021

This bill authorizes FY2021 appropriations and sets forth policies for the Department of Defense (DOD) and other programs and activities. It does not provide budget authority, which is provided in subsequent appropriations legislation.

The bill authorizes appropriations to DOD for

Procurement, including aircraft, weapons and tracked combat vehicles, shipbuilding and conversion, and missiles;
Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation;
Operation and Maintenance;
Working Capital Funds;
Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction;
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities;
the Defense Inspector General;
the National Defense Sealift Fund;
the Defense Health Program;
the Armed Forces Retirement Home;
the Space Force;
Overseas Contingency Operations; and
Military Construction.

The bill also authorizes the FY2021 personnel strengths for active duty and reserve forces and sets forth policies regarding

military personnel;
acquisition policy and management;
international programs;
National Guard and Reserve Force facilities;
compensation and other personnel benefits;
health care;
matters relating to COVID-19 (i.e., coronavirus disease 2019);
DOD organization and management;
civilian personnel matters;
matters relating to foreign nations; and
strategic programs, space activities, cyber operations, and intelligence matters.

The bill authorizes appropriations for base realignment and closure activities, and maritime matters.

The bill authorizes appropriations and sets forth policies for Department of Energy national security programs, including the National Nuclear Security Administration.

The bill also sets forth policies regarding certain federal activities related to artificial intelligence, including implementation by the President of a National Artificial Intelligence Initiative to support research and development, education, and training programs.

The bill establishes measures related to financial intelligence, anti-money laundering, and countering the financing of terrorism. These include expanding information sharing requirements among agencies that are tasked with administering efforts to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism, as well as authorizing training and technical assistance to facilitate these measures.

The bill reauthorizes and sets forth policies for the Coast Guard, including measures related to its personnel and organization. It also addresses other maritime matters such as navigation, shipping, and ports.

Further, the bill sets forth policies for and addresses additional matters related to

homeland security;
veterans affairs;
communications;
intelligence;
science, space, and technology;
natural resources;
oversight and reform;
financial services; and
semiconductor production.

For more detailed information, see Congressional Research Service Report R46714, FY2021 National Defense Authorization Act: Context and Selected Issues for Congress; Congressional Research Service In Focus IF10515, Defense Primer: The NDAA Process; and Congressional Research Service In Focus IF10516, Defense Primer: Navigating the NDAA.