--H.R.2364--
H.R.2364
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Rail Passenger Service Act to authorize appropriations for the
National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Amtrak Reauthorization and Improvement Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 601(b)(2) of the Rail Passenger Service Act (45 U.S.C. 601(b)(2))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (D);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting in
 lieu thereof a semicolon; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `(F) not to exceed $630,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1989;
 `(G) not to exceed $656,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990;
 `(H) not to exceed $684,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30,
 1991; and
 `(I) not to exceed $712,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30,
 1992.'.
SEC. 3. INCENTIVES FOR PASSENGER SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
 Title VIII of the Rail Passenger Service Act (45 U.S.C. 642 et seq.) is
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 810. INCENTIVES FOR PASSENGER SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in instances where a
 publicly funded commuter transportation authority established under Virginia
 law contracts to indemnify the Corporation for liability for operations
 conducted by or on behalf of the publicly funded commuter transportation
 authority or to indemnify a railroad over whose tracks such operations are
 conducted, liability for all claims, whether for compensatory or punitive
 damages, arising from any accident or incident occurring in the District
 of Columbia against the Corporation or the publicly funded commuter
 transportation authority in connection with operations conducted by or
 on behalf of such publicly funded commuter transportation authority, or
 against a railroad over whose tracks such operations were conducted at the
 time of the accident or incident, shall not be in an amount greater than the
 limits of the liability coverage maintained by the publicly funded commuter
 transportation authority to indemnify the Corporation or the railroad. In no
 event shall the publicly funded commuter transportation authority maintain
 an aggregate limit of liability coverage less than $200,000,000.
 `(b) Subsection (a) shall not be effective unless the Corporation or a
 railroad seeking coverage hereunder has entered into an operating agreement
 with a publicly funded commuter transportation authority established
 under Virginia law to provide access for revenue service to its property in
 connection with the operations of the publicly funded commuter transportation
 authority.'.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION TO USE FUNDS FOR SIMILAR PURPOSES.
 Proceeds from the sale of all or part of the railroad line for which funds
 were provided, for acquisition and rehabilitation, under section 511 of the
 Rail Safety and Service Improvement Act of 1982 may be used for similar
 purposes with respect to any railroad line connecting with such line,
 for the purpose of continued rail service on such lines.
SEC. 5. COOPERATION WITH STUDY.
 The National Railroad Passenger Corporation shall cooperate with the
 efforts of the Washington State Department of Transportation in designing
 and carrying out a study of the feasibility of reestablishing rail service
 between Seattle, Washington, and Vancouver, British Columbia.
SEC. 6. ROUTING FEASIBILITY STUDY.
 The National Railroad Passenger Corporation shall conduct a study to
 evaluate the short-term and long-term revenue and cost implications of
 separating the existing California Zephyr-Desert Wind-Pioneer train into two
 service routes serving separate western destinations via a southern route
 and a central route through Iowa. The Corporation shall include in this
 evaluation the projected cost for required additional passenger equipment,
 any projected loss, and any revenue and ridership gains, associated with
 offering a second service route. A detailed report on the findings of the
 study shall be submitted by the Corporation to the Congress within 6 months
 after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 7. RESIDENCE OF EMPLOYEES.
 (a) Section 11504(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(a) No part of the compensation paid by a rail carrier providing
 transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under subchapter
 I of chapter 105 of this title to an employee who performs regularly assigned
 duties as such an employee on a railroad in more than one State shall be
 subject to the income tax laws of any State or subdivision of that State,
 other than the State or subdivision thereof of the employee's residence.'.
 (b) Section 11504(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(b)(1) No part of the compensation paid by a motor carrier providing
 transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under subchapter
 II of chapter 105 of this title or by a motor private carrier to an employee
 who performs regularly assigned duties in 2 or more States as such an
 employee with respect to a motor vehicle shall be subject to the income
 tax laws of any State or subdivision of that State, other than the State
 or subdivision thereof of the employee's residence.
 `(2) In this subsection `employee' has the meaning given such term in
 section 204 of the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1984 (49 App. U.S.C. 2503).'.
 (c) Section 11504(d) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by striking `express, sleeping car,'; and
 (2) by striking `with--' and all that follows and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following: `with the State and subdivision of residence of the employee.'.
SEC. 8. JURISDICTION OF THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION OVER ACQUISITION
OF CONTROL OF CERTAIN RAIL CARRIERS.
 (a) Section 11348 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by redesignating
 subsections (a) and (b) as subsections (b) and (c), respectively, and by
 inserting before subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(a)(1) Acquisition of direct or indirect control of a class I rail carrier by
 a person that is not a carrier and does not directly or indirectly control,
 and is not directly or indirectly controlled by, a carrier may be carried
 out only with the approval and authorization of the Commission.
 `(2) The Commission may begin a proceeding to approve and authorize a
 transaction referred to in paragraph (1) on application of the person
 seeking that authority. When an application is filed with the Commission, the
 Commission shall notify the chief executive officer of each State in which
 property of the carrier involved in the proposed transaction is located,
 and shall notify that carrier.
 `(3) In a proceeding under this subsection, the Commission shall consider
 the following:
 `(A) The effect of the proposed transaction on the adequacy of transportation
 to the public.
 `(B) The total fixed charges that result from the proposed transaction.
 `(C) The interest of carrier employees affected by the proposed transaction.
 `(4) The Commission shall approve and authorize a transaction under this
 subsection when it finds the transaction is consistent with the public
 interest. The Commission may impose conditions governing the transaction,
 including the subordination of all or any portion of any new debt created
 as part of the proposed transaction to any pre-existing debt owed to the
 United States sufficient to provide reasonable protection to the United
 States. When the transaction contemplates a guarantee or assumption, by a
 carrier, of payment of dividends or of fixed charges or will result in an
 increase of total fixed charges, the Commission may approve and authorize
 the transaction only if it finds that the guarantee, assumption, or increase
 is consistent with the public interest.
 `(5) The Commission shall publish notice of an application under this
 subsection in the Federal Register by the 15th day after the application is
 filed with the Commission and after a certified copy of it is furnished to
 the Secretary of Transportation. However, if the application is incomplete,
 the Commission shall reject it by the end of that period. The order of
 rejection is a final action of the Commission under section 10327 of this
 title. The published notice shall indicate that the application involves
 the acquisition of control of a class I rail carrier, to be decided within
 the time limits specified in paragraph (6).
 `(6) Commission procedures with respect to an application filed under this
 subsection shall be as follows:
 `(A) Written comments about an application may be filed with the
 Commission within 20 days after notice of the application is published
 under paragraph (5). Copies of such comments shall be served on the
 Secretary of Transportation, who may decide to intervene as a party to
 the proceeding. That decision must be made by the 15th day after the date
 of receipt of the written comments, and if the decision is to intervene,
 preliminary comments about the application must be sent to the Commission
 by the 15th day after the date of receipt of the written comments.
 `(B) The Commission must conclude evidentiary proceedings by the 75th day
 after the date of publication of notice under paragraph (5). The Commission
 must issue a final decision by the 15th day after the date on which it
 concludes the evidentiary proceedings.
 `(7) The final decision of the Commission under paragraph (6)(B) is a final
 action of the Commission under section 10327 of this title. If the Commission
 does not issue a final decision within the time limits provided under this
 subsection, it shall send a written notice to Congress that a decision was
 not issued and the reasons why it was not issued, and shall thereafter on
 a weekly basis report to Congress on the steps that have been taken toward
 the issuance of such final decision.
 `(8) Nothing in this subsection shall preclude the Commission from approving
 more than one application filed under this subsection with respect to the
 acquisition of control of the same rail carrier.
 `(9) In this subsection, the term `control' does not refer to use of a
 voting trust in a proceeding subject to section 11343 of this title.'.
 (b) Within 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission
 shall issue interim regulations implementing the provisions of the amendment
 made by subsection (a). Such interim regulations shall take effect upon
 issuance, notwithstanding section 553 of title 5, United States Code. Final
 implementing regulations shall be issued and in force not later than 180
 days after such date of enactment.
SEC. 9. RAILROAD UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT AMENDMENT.
 (a) Section 8(a)(1)(B)(vi) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act (45
 U.S.C. 358(a)(1)(B)(vi)) is amended by inserting `the National Railroad
 Passenger Corporation and' immediately after `the contribution of' in the
 first sentence.
 (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be effective as of January
 1, 1989.
SEC. 10. STUDY OF LOAN GUARANTEE NEEDS.
 The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Administrator of
 the Federal Railroad Administration, shall study and survey the present and
 potential need and demand among class II and class III railroads for Federal
 guarantees of obligations as provided for by section 511 of the Railroad
 Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 (45 U.S.C. 831). Such study
 and survey shall examine the present and potential need and demand for such
 guarantees to fund rehabilitation and improvement of facilities or equipment,
 acquisition of new railroad facilities, and refinancing of existing debt. The
 Secretary of Transportation shall report to Congress no later than 90 days
 following the date of the enactment of this Act the results of such study and
 survey. Such report shall include an analysis of the present and potential
 need and demand for Federal guarantees of class II and class III railroad
 debt, the amount of guarantee authority required to meet that need, and a
 projection of demand for such Federal guarantees through fiscal year 1995.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.