Calendar No. 367
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
H.R. 3628
AN ACT
To temporarily reduce the capital gains tax for noncorporate taxpayers,
and for other purposes.
November 13, (legislative day, NOVEMBER 6), 1989
Received; read twice and ordered placed on the calendar
HR 3628 PCS
Calendar No. 367
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
 H. R. 3628
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
November 13 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 6), 1989
Received; read twice and ordered placed on the calendar
AN ACT
To temporarily reduce the capital gains tax for noncorporate taxpayers,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES IN TEXT.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Temporary Capital Gains
  Tax Reduction Act of 1989'.
  (b) AMENDMENT OF 1986 CODE- Except as otherwise expressly provided,
  whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an
  amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference
  shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of the
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
TITLE I--TEMPORARY REDUCTION IN CAPITAL GAINS TAX FOR NONCORPORATE TAXPAYERS
SEC. 101. TEMPORARY REDUCTION IN CAPITAL GAINS TAX.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- Part I of subchapter P of chapter 1 (relating to treatment
  of capital gains) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
  new section:
`SEC. 1202. TEMPORARY REDUCTION IN CAPITAL GAINS TAX FOR NONCORPORATE
TAXPAYERS.
  `(a) DEDUCTION ALLOWED FOR 30 PERCENT OF CAPITAL GAIN-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If, for any taxable year which includes any portion of the
  temporary rate reduction period, a taxpayer other than a corporation has a
  qualified net capital gain, an amount equal to 30 percent of the qualified
  net capital gain shall be allowed as a deduction. Such deduction shall be
  allowable in computing adjusted gross income.
  `(2) ESTATES AND TRUSTS- In the case of an estate or trust, the deduction
  under paragraph (1) shall be computed by excluding the portion (if any) of
  the gains for the taxable year from sales or exchanges of capital assets
  which, under sections 652 and 662 (relating to inclusions of amounts in
  gross income of beneficiaries of trusts), is includible by the income
  beneficiaries as gain derived from the sale or exchange of capital assets.
  `(b) COORDINATION WITH SECTION 1(g)- In the case of any taxable year which
  includes any portion of the temporary rate reduction period, for purposes
  of section 1(g)(1)(A), the amount allowed as a deduction under subsection
  (a) shall be applied against (and operate to reduce) the amount of the
  qualified net capital gain as determined for purposes of section 1(g)(1)(A).
  `(c) DEDUCTION NOT ALLOWED FOR PURPOSES OF MINIMUM TAX- The deduction
  under subsection (a) shall not be allowed in determining alternative
  minimum taxable income.
  `(d) QUALIFIED NET CAPITAL GAIN- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The term `qualified net capital gain' means the lesser of--
  `(A) the net capital gain for the taxable year, or
  `(B) the net capital gain for the taxable year determined--
  `(i) by taking into account only gain or loss from sales or exchanges
  occurring during the temporary rate reduction period, and
  `(ii) by not taking into account any gain or loss from the sale or exchange
  of any collectible.
  `(2) SPECIAL RULES FOR PASS-THRU ENTITIES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- In applying paragraph (1) with respect to any pass-thru
  entity, the determination of when a sale or exchange has occurred shall
  be made at the entity level.
  `(B) PASS-THRU ENTITY DEFINED- For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term
  `pass-thru entity' means--
  `(i) a regulated investment company,
  `(ii) a real estate investment trust,
  `(iii) an S corporation,
  `(iv) a partnership,
  `(v) an estate or trust, and
  `(vi) a common trust fund.
  `(3) COLLECTIBLE- For purposes of this section, the term `collectible'
  has the meaning given to such term by section 408(m)(2) without regard to
  section 408(m)(3).
  `(e) TEMPORARY RATE REDUCTION PERIOD- For purposes of this section, the term
  `temporary rate reduction period' means the period beginning on September
  14, 1989, and ending on December 31, 1991.
  `(f) MODIFICATIONS TO OTHER PROVISIONS-
  `(1) For purposes of section 163(d), the deduction allowable under this
  section to the extent attributable to gain from dispositions of property
  held for investment shall be applied against (and operate to reduce)
  the net gain referred to in section 163(d)(4)(B)(ii).
  `(2) In the case of any charitable contribution (other than of a collectible)
  by a person other than a corporation during the temporary rate reduction
  period, section 170(e)(1)(B) shall be applied by substituting `70 percent
  of the amount of gain' for `the amount of gain'.
  `(3) The deduction allowed under this section shall not be taken into account
  in determining the net operating loss under section 172 for any taxable year.
  `(4) To the extent that the amount otherwise allowable as a deduction under
  section 642(c) consists of any gain taken into account in determining
  the qualified net capital gain, proper adjustment shall be made for any
  deduction allowable to the trust or estate under this section.
  `(5) The deduction allowed under this section shall not be taken into
  account for purposes of section 643(a).
  `(6) For purposes of this section, the rules of section 691(c)(4) shall
  apply.
  `(7) The amount subject to tax under section 871(a)(2) shall be determined
  without regard to the deduction allowed under this section.
  `(8) The deduction allowed under this section shall not be taken into account
  in determining the net earnings from self-employment of any options dealer
  (as defined in section 1402(i)) or commodities dealer (as so defined).
  `(9) In the case of a withdrawal during the temporary rate reduction period,
  section 7518(g)(6)(A), and section 607(h)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act,
  1936, shall each be applied by substituting `19.6 percent' for `28 percent'.'
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections for part I of subchapter P
  of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new item:
`Sec. 1202. Temporary reduction in capital gains tax for noncorporate
taxpayers.'
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
  taxable years ending on or after September 14, 1989.
SEC. 102. NET CAPITAL GAIN NOT TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT UNDER PHASE OUT OF 15-PERCENT
RATE AND PERSONAL EXEMPTIONS.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- Subparagraph (A) of section 1(g)(1) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(A) taxable income reduced by the qualified net capital gain, over'.
  (b) QUALIFIED NET CAPITAL GAIN- Subsection (g) of section 1 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(5) QUALIFIED NET CAPITAL GAIN- The term `qualified net capital gain'
  means the lesser of--
  `(A) the net capital gain for the taxable year, or
  `(B) the net capital gain for the taxable year determined--
  `(i) by taking into account only gain or loss from sales or exchanges on
  or after September 14, 1989, and
  `(ii) by not taking into account any gain or loss from the sale or exchange
  of any collectible (as defined in section 408(m)(2) without regard to
  section 408(m)(3)).
For purposes of the preceding sentence the rules of section 1202(d)(2)
shall apply.'
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
  taxable years ending on or after September 14, 1989.
SEC. 103. RECAPTURE UNDER SECTION 1250 OF TOTAL AMOUNT OF DEPRECIATION.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- Subsections (a) and (b) of section 1250 (relating to
  gain from disposition of certain depreciable realty) are amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) GENERAL RULE- Except as otherwise provided in this section, if section
  1250 property is disposed of, the lesser of--
  `(1) the depreciation adjustments in respect of such property, or
  `(2) the excess of--
  `(A) the amount realized (or, in the case of a disposition other than a
  sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion, the fair market value of such
  property), over
  `(B) the adjusted basis of such property,
shall be treated as gain which is ordinary income. Such gain shall be
recognized notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle.
  `(b) DEPRECIATION ADJUSTMENTS- For purposes of this section, the term
  `depreciation adjustments' means, in respect of any property, all adjustments
  attributable to periods after December 31, 1963, reflected in the adjusted
  basis of such property on account of deductions (whether in respect of
  the same or other property) allowed or allowable to the taxpayer or to any
  other person for exhaustion, wear and tear, obsolescence, or amortization
  (other than amortization under section 168 (as in effect before its repeal
  by the Tax Reform Act of 1976), 169, 185 (as in effect before its repeal
  by the Tax Reform Act of 1986), 188, 190, or 193). For purposes of the
  preceding sentence, if the taxpayer can establish by adequate records or
  other sufficient evidence that the amount allowed as a deduction for any
  period was less than the amount allowable, the amount taken into account
  for such period shall be the amount allowed.'
  (b) LIMITATION IN CASE OF INSTALLMENT SALES- Subsection (i) of section
  453 is amended--
  (1) by striking `1250' the first place it appears and inserting `1250
  (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Temporary
  Capital Gains Tax Reduction Act of 1989)', and
  (2) by striking `1250' the second place it appears and inserting `1250
  (as so in effect)'.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
  (1) Subparagraph (E) of section 1250(d)(4) is amended--
  (A) by striking `additional depreciation' and inserting `amount of the
  depreciation adjustments', and
  (B) by striking `ADDITIONAL DEPRECIATION' in the subparagraph heading and
  inserting `DEPRECIATION ADJUSTMENTS'.
  (2) Subparagraph (B) of section 1250(d)(6) is amended to read as follows:
  `(B) DEPRECIATION ADJUSTMENTS- In respect of any property described in
  subparagraph (A), the amount of the depreciation adjustments attributable
  to periods before the distribution by the partnership shall be--
  `(i) the amount of gain to which subsection (a) would have applied if
  such property had been sold by the partnership immediately before the
  distribution at its fair market value at such time, reduced by
  `(ii) the amount of such gain to which section 751(b) applied.'
  (3) Subparagraph (D) of section 1250(d)(8) is amended--
  (A) by striking `additional depreciation' each place it appears and inserting
  `amount of the depreciation adjustments', and
  (B) by striking `ADDITIONAL DEPRECIATION' in the subparagraph heading and
  inserting `DEPRECIATION ADJUSTMENTS'.
  (4) Paragraph (8) of section 1250(d) is amended by striking subparagraphs
  (E) and (F) and inserting the following:
  `(E) ALLOCATION RULES- For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of
  gain attributable to the section 1250 property disposed of shall be the
  net amount realized with respect to such property reduced by the greater
  of the adjusted basis of the section 1250 property disposed of, or the
  cost of the section 1250 property acquired, but shall not exceed the gain
  recognized in the transaction.'
  (5) Subsection (d) of section 1250 is amended by striking paragraph (10).
  (6) Section 1250 is amended by striking subsections (e), (f), and (g)
  and by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections (g) and (h),
  respectively.
  (7) Paragraph (5) of section 48(q) is amended to read as follows:
  `(5) RECAPTURE OF REDUCTION- For purposes of sections 1245 and 1250, any
  reduction under this subsection shall be treated as a deduction allowed
  for depreciation.'
  (8) Clause (i) of section 267(e)(5)(D) is amended by striking `section
  1250(a)(1)(B)' and inserting `section 1250(a)(1)(B) (as in effect on the
  day before the date of the enactment of the Temporary Capital Gains Tax
  Reduction Act of 1989)'.
  (9)(A) Subsection (a) of section 291 is amended by striking paragraph (1)
  and redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (1),
  (2), (3), and (4), respectively.
  (B) Subsection (c) of section 291 is amended to read as follows:
  `(c) SPECIAL RULE FOR POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES- Section 168 shall apply
  with respect to that portion of the basis of any property not taken into
  account under section 169 by reason of subsection (a)(4).'
  (C) Section 291 is amended by striking subsection (d) and redesignating
  subsection (e) as subsection (d).
  (D) Subparagraph (A) of section 265(b)(3) is amended by striking
  `291(e)(1)(B)' and inserting `291(d)(1)(B)'.
  (E) Subsection (c) of section 1277 is amended by striking `291(e)(1)(B)(ii)'
  and inserting `291(d)(1)(B)(ii)'.
  (10) Subsection (d) of section 1017 is amended to read as follows:
  `(d) RECAPTURE OF DEDUCTIONS- For purposes of sections 1245 and 1250--
  `(1) any property the basis of which is reduced under this section and
  which is neither section 1245 property nor section 1250 property shall be
  treated as section 1245 property, and
  `(2) any reduction under this section shall be treated as a deduction
  allowed for depreciation.'
  (11) Paragraph (5) of section 7701(e) is amended by striking `(relating to
  low-income housing)' and inserting `(as in effect on the day before the date
  of the enactment of the Temporary Capital Gains Tax Reduction Act of 1989)'.
  (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
  dispositions on or after September 14, 1989, in taxable years ending after
  such date.
TITLE II--INDEXING OF CERTAIN ASSETS ACQUIRED AFTER 1991 FOR PURPOSES OF
DETERMINING GAIN
SEC. 201. INDEXING OF CERTAIN ASSETS ACQUIRED AFTER 1991 FOR PURPOSES OF
DETERMINING GAIN.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Part II of subchapter O of chapter 1 (relating to basis
  rules of general application) is amended by inserting after section 1021
  the following new section:
`SEC. 1022. INDEXING OF CERTAIN ASSETS ACQUIRED AFTER 1991 FOR PURPOSES OF
DETERMINING GAIN.
  `(a) GENERAL RULE-
  `(1) INDEXED BASIS SUBSTITUTED FOR ADJUSTED BASIS- Solely for purposes of
  determining gain on the sale or other disposition by an individual of an
  indexed asset which has been held for more than 1 year, the indexed basis
  of the asset shall be substituted for its adjusted basis.
  `(2) SPECIAL RULE FOR RECAPTURE GAIN-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Paragraph (1) shall not apply for purposes of determining
  the amount of recapture gain on the sale or other disposition of an
  indexed asset, but the amount of any such recapture gain shall increase
  the adjusted basis of the asset for purposes of applying paragraph (1)
  to determine the amount of other gain on such sale or other disposition.
  `(B) RECAPTURE GAIN- For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `recapture
  gain' means any gain treated as ordinary income under section 1245, 1250,
  or 1254.
  `(b) INDEXED ASSET-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of this section, the term `indexed asset'
  means--
  `(A) any stock in a corporation, and
  `(B) any tangible property (or any interest therein),
which is a capital asset or property used in the trade or business (as
defined in section 1231(b)) and the holding period of which begins after
December 31, 1991.
  `(2) CERTAIN PROPERTY EXCLUDED- For purposes of this section, the term
  `indexed asset' does not include--
  `(A) CREDITOR'S INTEREST- Any interest in property which is in the nature
  of a creditor's interest.
  `(B) COLLECTIBLES- Any collectible (as defined in section 408(m)(2)
  without regard to section 408(m)(3)).
  `(C) OPTIONS- Any option or other right to acquire an interest in property.
  `(D) NET LEASE PROPERTY- In the case of a lessor, net lease property
  (within the meaning of subsection (i)(3)).
  `(E) CERTAIN PREFERRED STOCK- Stock which is fixed and preferred as to
  dividends and does not participate in corporate growth to any significant
  extent.
  `(F) STOCK IN FOREIGN CORPORATIONS- Stock in a foreign corporation.
  `(G) STOCK IN S CORPORATIONS- Stock in an S corporation.
  `(3) EXCEPTION FOR STOCK IN FOREIGN CORPORATION WHICH IS REGULARLY TRADED
  ON NATIONAL OR REGIONAL EXCHANGE- Paragraph (2)(F) shall not apply to stock
  in a foreign corporation the stock of which is listed on the New York Stock
  Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, or any domestic regional exchange
  for which quotations are published on a regular basis or is authorized for
  trading on the national market system operated by the National Association
  of Securities Dealers other than--
  `(A) stock of a foreign investment company (within the meaning of section
  1246(b)),
  `(B) stock in a passive foreign investment company (as defined in section
  1296), and
  `(C) stock in a foreign corporation held by a United States person who
  meets the requirements of section 1248(a)(2).
  `(c) INDEXED BASIS- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) INDEXED BASIS- The indexed basis for any asset is--
  `(A) the adjusted basis of the asset, multiplied by
  `(B) the applicable inflation ratio.
  `(2) APPLICABLE INFLATION RATIO- The applicable inflation ratio for any
  asset shall be determined by dividing--
  `(A) the CPI for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which
  the disposition takes place, by
  `(B) the CPI for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which
  the taxpayer's holding period for such asset began.
The applicable inflation ratio shall not be taken into account unless it
is greater than 1. The applicable inflation ratio for any asset shall be
rounded to the nearest one-hundredth.
  `(3) CONVENTIONS- For purposes of paragraph (2), if any asset is disposed
  of during any calendar year--
  `(A) such disposition shall be treated as occurring on the last day of
  such calendar year, and
  `(B) the taxpayer's holding period for such asset shall be treated as
  beginning in the same calendar year as would be determined for an asset
  actually disposed of on such last day with a holding period of the same
  length as the actual holding period of the asset involved.
  `(4) CPI- For purposes of this subsection, the CPI for any calendar year
  shall be determined under section 1(f)(4).
  `(d) SHORT SALES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of a short sale of an indexed asset with
  a short sale period in excess of 1 year, for purposes of this title, the
  amount realized shall be an amount equal to the amount realized (determined
  without regard to this paragraph) multiplied by the applicable inflation
  ratio. In applying subsection (c)(2) for purposes of the preceding sentence,
  the date on which the property is sold short shall be treated as the date
  on which the holding period for the asset begins and the closing date for
  the sale shall be treated as the date of disposition.
  `(2) SHORT SALE OF SUBSTANTIALLY IDENTICAL PROPERTY- If the taxpayer or the
  taxpayer's spouse sells short property substantially identical to an asset
  held by the taxpayer, the asset held by the taxpayer and the substantially
  identical property shall not be treated as indexed assets for the short
  sale period.
  `(3) SHORT SALE PERIOD- For purposes of this subsection, the short sale
  period begins on the day after property is sold and ends on the closing
  date for the sale.
  `(e) TREATMENT OF REGULATED INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT
  TRUSTS-
  `(1) ADJUSTMENTS AT ENTITY LEVEL-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the
  adjustment under subsection (a) shall be allowed to any qualified investment
  entity (including for purposes of determining the earnings and profits of
  such entity).
  `(B) EXCEPTION FOR CORPORATE SHAREHOLDERS- Under regulations--
  `(i) in the case of a distribution by a qualified investment entity
  (directly or indirectly) to a corporation--
  `(I) the determination of whether such distribution is a dividend shall
  be made without regard to this section, and
  `(II) the amount treated as gain by reason of the receipt of any capital
  gain dividend shall be increased by the percentage by which the entity's
  net capital gain for the taxable year determined without regard to this
  section exceeds the entity's net capital gain for such year determined
  with regard to this section, and
  `(ii) there shall be other appropriate adjustments (including deemed
  distributions) so as to ensure that the benefits of this section are not
  allowed (directly or indirectly) to corporate shareholders of qualified
  investment entities.
For purposes of the preceding sentence, any amount includible in gross income
under section 852(b)(3)(D) shall be treated as a capital gain dividend and
an S corporation shall not be treated as a corporation.
  `(C) EXCEPTION FOR QUALIFICATION PURPOSES- This section shall not apply
  for purposes of sections 851(b) and 856(c).
  `(D) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN TAXES IMPOSED AT ENTITY LEVEL-
  `(i) TAX ON FAILURE TO DISTRIBUTE ENTIRE GAIN- If any amount is subject to
  tax under section 852(b)(3)(A) for any taxable year, the amount on which
  tax is imposed under such section shall be increased by the percentage
  determined under subparagraph (B)(i)(II). A similar rule shall apply
  in the case of any amount subject to tax under paragraph (2) or (3) of
  section 857(b) to the extent attributable to the excess of the net capital
  gain over the deduction for dividends paid determined with reference to
  capital gain dividends only. The first sentence of this clause shall not
  apply to so much of the amount subject to tax under section 852(b)(3)(A)
  as is designated by the company under section 852(b)(3)(D).
  `(ii) OTHER TAXES- This section shall not apply for purposes of determining
  the amount of any tax imposed by paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of section
  857(b).
  `(2) ADJUSTMENTS TO INTERESTS HELD IN ENTITY-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Stock in a qualified investment entity shall be an indexed
  asset for any calendar month in the same ratio as the fair market value of
  the assets held by such entity at the close of such month which are indexed
  assets bears to the fair market value of all assets of such entity at the
  close of such month.
  `(B) RATIO OF 90 PERCENT OR MORE- If the ratio for any calendar month
  determined under subparagraph (A) would (but for this subparagraph) be 90
  percent or more, such ratio for such month shall be 100 percent.
  `(C) RATIO OF 10 PERCENT OR LESS- If the ratio for any calendar month
  determined under subparagraph (A) would (but for this subparagraph) be 10
  percent or less, such ratio for such month shall be zero.
  `(D) VALUATION OF ASSETS IN CASE OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS- Nothing
  in this paragraph shall require a real estate investment trust to value
  its assets more frequently than once each 36 months (except where such
  trust ceases to exist). The ratio under subparagraph (A) for any calendar
  month for which there is no valuation shall be the trustee's good faith
  judgment as to such valuation.
  `(3) QUALIFIED INVESTMENT ENTITY- For purposes of this subsection, the term
  `qualified investment entity' means--
  `(A) a regulated investment company (within the meaning of section 851), and
  `(B) a real estate investment trust (within the meaning of section 856).
  `(f) OTHER PASS-THRU ENTITIES-
  `(1) PARTNERSHIPS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- In the case of a partnership, the adjustment made under
  subsection (a) at the partnership level shall be passed through to the
  partners (but only for purposes of determining the income of partners who
  are individuals).
  `(B) SPECIAL RULE IN THE CASE OF SECTION 754 ELECTIONS- In the case of a
  transfer of an interest in a partnership with respect to which the election
  provided in section 754 is in effect--
  `(i) the adjustment under section 743(b)(1) shall, with respect to the
  transferor partner, be treated as a sale of the partnership assets for
  purposes of applying this section, and
  `(ii) with respect to the transferee partner, the partnership's holding
  period for purposes of this section in such assets shall be treated as
  beginning on the date of such adjustment.
  `(2) S CORPORATIONS- In the case of an S corporation, the adjustment made
  under subsection (a) at the corporate level shall be passed through to
  the shareholders. This section shall not apply for purposes of determining
  the amount of any tax imposed by section 1374 or 1375.
  `(3) COMMON TRUST FUNDS- In the case of a common trust fund, the adjustment
  made under subsection (a) at the trust level shall be passed through
  to the participants (but only for purposes of determining the income of
  participants who are individuals).
  `(g) DISPOSITIONS BETWEEN RELATED PERSONS- This section shall not apply to
  any sale or other disposition of property between related persons (within
  the meaning of section 465(b)(3)(C)) if such property, in the hands of the
  transferee, is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation
  provided in section 167.
  `(h) TRANSFERS TO INCREASE INDEXING ADJUSTMENT- If any person transfers cash,
  debt, or any other property to another person and the principal purpose
  of such transfer is to secure or increase an adjustment under subsection
  (a), the Secretary may disallow part or all of such adjustment or increase.
  `(i) SPECIAL RULES- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) TREATMENT AS SEPARATE ASSET- In the case of any asset, the following
  shall be treated as a separate asset:
  `(A) A substantial improvement to property.
  `(B) In the case of stock of a corporation, a substantial contribution
  to capital.
  `(C) Any other portion of an asset to the extent that separate treatment
  of such portion is appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.
  `(2) ASSETS WHICH ARE NOT INDEXED ASSETS THROUGHOUT HOLDING PERIOD- The
  applicable inflation ratio shall be appropriately reduced for periods
  during which the asset was not an indexed asset.
  `(3) NET LEASE PROPERTY DEFINED- The term `net lease property' means leased
  property where--
  `(A) the term of the lease (taking into account options to renew) was 50
  percent or more of the useful life of the property, and
  `(B) for the period of the lease, the sum of the deductions with respect to
  such property which are allowable to the lessor solely by reason of section
  162 (other than rents and reimbursed amounts with respect to such property)
  is 15 percent or less of the rental income produced by such property.
  `(j) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may
  be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section.'
  (b) GAINS AND LOSSES FROM INDEXED ASSETS NOT TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT UNDER
  LIMITATION ON INVESTMENT INTEREST- Subparagraph (B) of section 163(d)(4)
  (defining investment income) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
  following new sentences:
`Gain from the sale or other disposition of an indexed asset (as defined in
section 1022) held for more than 1 year shall not be taken into account for
purposes of the preceding sentence. The preceding sentence shall not apply
to gain from the sale or other disposition of any such asset if the taxpayer
elects to waive the benefits of section 1022 in determining the amount of
such gain.'
  (c) REPEAL OF SECTION 1(j)-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subsection (j) of section 1 is hereby repealed.
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
  (A) Paragraph (4) of section 694(c) is amended by striking `1(j), 1201,
  and 1211' and inserting `1201, and 1211'.
  (B)(i) Subparagraph (B) of section 904(b)(2) is amended by striking so
  much of such subparagraph as precedes clause (i) and inserting the following:
  `(B) SPECIAL RULE WHERE CORPORATE CAPITAL GAIN RATE DIFFERENTIAL- In the
  case of a corporation for any taxable year for which there is a capital
  gain rate differential--'.
  (ii) Subparagraph (D) of section 904(b)(3) is amended to read as follows:
  `(D) CAPITAL GAIN RATE DIFFERENTIAL- There is a capital gain rate
  differential for any taxable year in the case of a corporation if any rate
  of tax imposed by section 11, 511, or 831(a) or (b) (whichever applies)
  exceeds the alternative rate of tax under section 1201(a) (determined
  without regard to the last sentence of section 11(b)(1).'
  (iii) Subparagraph (E) of section 904(b)(3) is amended by striking clauses
  (ii) and (iii) and inserting the following:
  `(ii) HIGHEST APPLICABLE TAX RATE- For purposes of clause (i), the term
  `highest applicable tax rate' means the highest rate of tax specified in
  section 11(b).
  `(iii) ALTERNATIVE TAX RATE- For purposes of clause (i), the term
  `alternative tax rate' means the alternative rate of tax under section
  1201(a).'
  (C)(i) The last sentence of subparagraph (A) of section 7518(h)(6) is
  amended to read as follows: `With respect to the portion of any nonqualified
  withdrawal made out of the capital gain account by a corporation during
  the taxable year to which section 1201(a) applies, the rate of tax taken
  into account under the preceding sentence shall not exceed 34 percent.'
  (ii) The last sentence of subparagraph (A) of section 607(h)(6) of the
  Merchant Marine Act, 1936, is amended to read as follows: `With respect
  to the portion of any nonqualified withdrawal made out of the capital gain
  account by a corporation during the taxable year to which section 1201(a)
  of such Code applies, the rate of tax taken into account under the preceding
  sentence shall not exceed 34 percent.'
  (d) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections for part II of subchapter
  O of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section
  1021 the following new item:
`Sec. 1022. Indexing of certain assets acquired after 1991 for purposes of
determining gain.'
  (e) EFFECTIVE DATE-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the
  amendments made by this section shall apply to dispositions of any property
  the holding period of which begins after December 31, 1991.
  (2) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN RELATED PERSONS- The
  amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to any property
  acquired after December 31, 1991, from a related person (as defined in
  section 465(b)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) if--
  (A) such property was so acquired for a price less than the property's
  fair market value, and
  (B) the amendments made by this section did not apply to such property in
  the hands of such related person.
  (3) SUBSECTION (c)- The amendments made by subsection (c) shall apply to
  taxable years beginning after December 31, 1991.
TITLE III--TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TIMBER ACTIVITIES UNDER PASSIVE LOSS RULES
SEC. 301. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN TIMBER ACTIVITIES UNDER PASSIVE LOSS RULES.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- Subsection (c) of section 469 (defining passive activity)
  is amended by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), as paragraphs
  (5), (6), and (7), respectively, and by inserting after paragraph (3)
  the following new paragraph:
  `(4) CERTAIN INTERESTS IN TIMBER PROPERTY-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The term `passive activity' shall not include any interest
  in qualified timber property (as defined in section 194(c)(1) held by
  a natural person directly or through an entity which does not limit the
  liability of such person with respect to such interest.
  `(B) INCOME IN SUBSEQUENT YEARS- If any taxpayer has any loss for any
  taxable year from an interest in any qualified timber property (as so
  defined) which is treated as a loss which is not from a passive activity,
  then any net income from such property (or any other property the basis
  of which is determined in whole or part by reference to the basis of such
  property) for any succeeding taxable year shall be treated as income of
  the taxpayer which is not from a passive activity.'
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Paragraph (5) of section 469(c) (as redesignated
  by subsection (a)) is amended by striking `(2) and (3)' each place it
  appears and inserting `(2), (3), and (4)'.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to
  taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989.
Passed the House of Representatives November 9, 1989.
Attest:
DONNALD K. ANDERSON,
Clerk.
HR 3628 PCS----2
HR 3628 PCS----3
HR 3628 PCS----4