Calendar No. 422
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1970
A BILL
To establish constitutional procedures for the imposition of the sentence
of death, and for other purposes.
November 21 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 6), 1989
Read twice and ordered to be placed on the calendar
S 1970 PCS
Calendar No. 422
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1970
To establish constitutional procedures for the imposition of the sentence
of death, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
November 21 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 6), 1989
Mr. BIDEN introduced the following bill; which was read twice and ordered
to be placed on the calendar
A BILL
To establish constitutional procedures for the imposition of the sentence
of death, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
TITLE I--DEATH PENALTY
Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Constitutional procedures for the imposition of the sentence
of death.
Sec. 103. Conforming changes in title 18.
Sec. 104. Conforming amendment to Federal Aviation Act of 1954.
Sec. 105. Applicability to uniform code of military justice.
Sec. 106. Murder by a Federal prisoner.
Sec. 107. Racial Justice Act of 1989.
TITLE II--HABEAS CORPUS REFORM
Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Special Habeas Corpus procedures in capital cases.
TITLE III--EXCLUSIONARY RULE
Sec. 301. Searches and seizures pursuant to an invalid warrant.
TITLE IV--ASSAULT WEAPONS
Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Unlawful acts.
Sec. 403. Definitions.
Sec. 404. Secretary to recommend designation as assault weapon.
Sec. 405. Enhanced penalties.
Sec. 406. Penalties for improper transfer, stealing firearm, or smuggling
a firearm in drug-related offense.
Sec. 407. Disability.
Sec. 408. Revocation of supervised release.
Sec. 409. Study by Attorney General.
Sec. 410. Sunset provision.
TITLE V--INTERNATIONAL MONEY LAUNDERING
Sec. 501. Reports on uses made of currency transaction reports
Sec. 502. Electronic scanning of certain United States currency notes.
Sec. 503. Conforming amendment of provision relating to the equitable transfer
to a participating foreign nation of forfeited property or proceeds.
Sec. 504. Addition of conforming predicate money laundering references to
`insider' exemption from the Right to Financial Privacy Act.
Sec. 505. Clarification of definition of `monetary instruments'.
Sec. 506. Money laundering amendments.
Sec. 507. Definition of `specified unlawful activity' for money laundering
statute.
Sec. 508. Right to Financial Privacy Act Amendment.
Sec. 509. Correction of erroneous predicate offense reference under 18
U.S.C. 1956.
Sec. 510. Knowledge requirement for international money laundering.
TITLE VI--ORGANIZED CRIME AND DANGEROUS DRUG DIVISION
Subtitle A--Establishment of an Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division
in the Department of Justice
Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Findings.
Sec. 603. Purposes.
Sec. 604. Establishment of organized crime and dangerous drugs division.
Sec. 605. Assistant Attorney General for organized crime and dangerous drugs.
Sec. 606. Deputy Assistant Attorney General.
Sec. 607. Administrative organization of the division.
Sec. 608. Coordination and enhancement of field activities.
Subtitle B--International Prosecution Teams
Sec. 611. International prosecution teams.
TITLE I--DEATH PENALTY
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Federal Death Penalty Act of 1989'.
SEC. 102. CONSTITUTIONAL PROCEDURES FOR THE IMPOSITION OF THE SENTENCE
OF DEATH.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Part II of title 18 of the United States Code is amended
  by adding the following new chapter after chapter 227:
`CHAPTER 228--DEATH SENTENCE
`Sec.
`3591. Sentence of death.
`3592. Factors to be considered in determining whether a sentence of death
is justified.
`3593. Special hearing to determine whether a sentence of death is justified.
`3594. Imposition of a sentence of death.
`3595. Review of a sentence of death.
`3596. Implementation of a sentence of death.
`3597. Use of State facilities.
`Sec. 3591. Sentence of death
  `A defendant who has been found guilty of--
  `(a) an offense described in section 794 or section 2381 of this title;
  `(b) an offense described in section 1751(c) of this title, if the offense,
  as determined beyond a reasonable doubt at the hearing under section 3593,
  constitutes an attempt to kill the President of the United States and
  results in bodily injury to the President or comes dangerously close to
  causing the death of the President; or
  `(c) any other offense for which a sentence of death is provided, if the
  defendant, as determined beyond a reasonable doubt at the hearing under
  section 3593--
  `(1) intentionally killed the victim;
  `(2) intentionally inflicted serious bodily injury that resulted in the
  death of the victim;
  `(3) intentionally participated in an act, contemplating that the life
  of a person would be taken or intending that lethal force would be used
  in connection with a person, other than one of the participants in the
  offense, and the victim died as a direct result of the act; or
  `(4) intentionally and specifically engaged in an act, knowing that the act
  created a grave risk of death to a person, other than one of the participants
  in the offense, such that participation in the act constituted a reckless
  disregard for human life and the victim died as a direct result of the act,
shall be sentenced to death if, after consideration of the factors set forth
in section 3592 in the course of a hearing held pursuant to section 3593, it
is determined that imposition of a sentence of death is justified; provided
that no person may be sentenced to death who was less than 18 years of age
at the time of the offense.
`Sec. 3592. Factors to be considered in determining whether a sentence of
death is justified
  `(a) MITIGATING FACTORS- In determining whether a sentence of death is to
  be imposed on a defendant, the finder of fact shall consider mitigating
  factors, including the following:
  `(1) The defendant's capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of the
  defendant's conduct or to conform conduct to the requirements of law was
  significantly impaired, regardless of whether the capacity was so impaired
  as to constitute a defense to the charge.
  `(2) The defendant was under unusual and substantial duress, regardless
  of whether the duress was of such a degree as to constitute a defense to
  the charge.
  `(3) The defendant is punishable as a principal (as defined in section 2 of
  title 18 of the United States Code) in the offense, which was committed by
  another, but the defendant's participation was relatively minor, regardless
  of whether the participation was so minor as to constitute a defense to
  the charge.
  `(4) The defendant could not reasonably have foreseen that the defendant's
  conduct in the course of the commission of murder, or other offense
  resulting in death for which the defendant was convicted, would cause,
  or would create a grave risk of causing, death to any person.
  `(5) The defendant was youthful, although not under the age of 18.
  `(6) The defendant did not have a significant prior criminal record.
  `(7) The defendant committed the offense under severe mental or emotional
  disturbance.
  `(8) Another defendant or defendants, equally culpable in the crime,
  will not be punished by death.
  `(9) The victim consented to the criminal conduct that resulted in the
  victim's death.
  `(10) That other factors in the defendant's background or character mitigate
  against imposition of the death sentence.
  `(b) AGGRAVATING FACTORS FOR ESPIONAGE AND TREASON- In determining whether a
  sentence of death is justified for an offense described in section 3591(a),
  the jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall consider each of the
  following aggravating factors and determine which, if any, exist:
  `(1) the defendant has previously been convicted of another offense involving
  espionage or treason for which either a sentence of life imprisonment or
  death was authorized by statute;
  `(2) in the commission of the offense the defendant knowingly created a
  grave risk of substantial danger to the national security; and
  `(3) in the commission of the offense the defendant knowingly created a
  grave risk of death to another person.
The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, may consider whether any other
aggravating factor exists.
  `(c) AGGRAVATING FACTORS FOR HOMICIDE AND FOR ATTEMPTED MURDER OF THE
  PRESIDENT- In determining whether a sentence of death is justified for an
  offense described in section 3591 (b) or (c), the jury, or if there is no
  jury, the court, shall consider each of the following aggravating factors
  and determine which, if any, exist:
  `(1) the death, or injury resulting in death, occurred during the
  commission or attempted commission of, or during the immediate flight
  from the commission of, an offense under section 751 (prisoners in custody
  of institution or officer), section 794 (gathering or delivering defense
  information to aid foreign government), section 844(d) (transportation of
  explosives in interstate commerce for certain purposes), section 844(f)
  (destruction of Government property in interstate commerce by explosives),
  section 1118 (prisoners serving life term), section 1201 (kidnaping),
  or section 2381 (treason) of this title, or section 902 (i) or (n) of
  the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1472 (i) or (n))
  (aircraft piracy);
  `(2) the defendant has previously been convicted of another Federal or
  State offense resulting in the death of a person, for which a sentence of
  life imprisonment or a sentence of death was authorized by statute;
  `(3) the defendant has previously been convicted of two or more Federal
  or State offenses, punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than one
  year, committed on different occasions, involving the infliction of, or
  attempted infliction of, serious bodily injury or death upon another person;
  `(4) the defendant, in the commission of the offense, or in escaping
  apprehension for the violation of the offense, knowingly created a grave risk
  of death to one or more persons in addition to the victim of the offense;
  `(5) the defendant committed the offense in an especially heinous, cruel,
  or depraved manner;
  `(6) the defendant procured the commission of the offense by payment,
  or promise of payment, of anything of pecuniary value;
  `(7) the defendant committed the offense as consideration for the receipt,
  or in the expectation of the receipt, of anything of pecuniary value;
  `(8) the defendant committed the offense after planning and premeditation
  to cause the death of a person or commit an act of terrorism;
  `(9) the defendant has previously been convicted of two or more State or
  Federal offenses punishable by a term of imprisonment of more than one
  year, committed on different occasions, involving the distribution of a
  controlled substance;
  `(10) the victim was particularly vulnerable due to old age, youth,
  or infirmity;
  `(11) the defendant had previously been convicted of violating title II
  or title III of the Controlled Substances Act for which a sentence of 5
  or more years may be imposed or had previously been convicted of engaging
  in a continuing criminal enterprise;
  `(12) the defendant violated section 408(c) of the Controlled Substances
  Act to the extent that the conduct described in section 408(c) of such
  Act was a violation of section 405 of such Act; or
  `(13) the defendant committed the offense against--
  `(A) the President of the United States, the President-elect, the Vice
  President, the Vice-President-elect, the Vice-President-designate, or,
  if there is no Vice President, the officer next in order of succession
  to the office of the President of the United States, or any person who is
  acting as President under the Constitution and laws of the United States;
  `(B) a chief of state, head of government, or the political equivalent,
  of a foreign nation;
  `(C) a foreign official listed in section 1116(b)(3)(A) of this title,
  if he is in the United States on official business; or
  `(D) a Federal public servant who is a judge, a law enforcement officer,
  or an employee of a United States penal or correctional institution--
  `(i) while he is engaged in the performance of his official duties;
  `(ii) because of the performance of his official duties; or
  `(iii) because of his status as a public servant.
For purposes of this subparagraph, a `law enforcement officer' is a public
servant authorized by law or by a Government agency or Congress to conduct
or engage in the prevention, investigation, or prosecution of an offense.
The jury, or if there is no jury, the court, may consider whether any other
aggravating factor exists.
`Sec. 3593. Special hearing to determine whether a sentence of death is
justified
  `(a) NOTICE BY THE GOVERNMENT- If, in a case involving an offense
  described in section 3591, the attorney for the government believes
  that the circumstances of the offense are such that a sentence of death
  is justified under this chapter, he shall, a reasonable time before the
  trial, or before acceptance by the court of a plea of guilty, or at such
  time thereafter as the court may permit upon a showing of good cause,
  sign and file with the court, and serve on the defendant, a notice--
  `(1) stating that the government believes that the circumstances of the
  offense are such that, if the defendant is convicted, a sentence of death
  is justified under this chapter and that the government will seek the
  sentence of death; and
  `(2) setting forth the aggravating factor or factors that the government,
  if the defendant is convicted, proposes to prove as justifying a sentence
  of death.
The court may permit the attorney for the government to amend the notice
upon a showing of good cause.
  `(b) HEARING BEFORE A COURT OR JURY- If the attorney for the government
  has filed a notice as required under subsection (a) and the defendant is
  found guilty of or pleads guilty to an offense described in section 3591,
  the judge who presided at the trial or before whom the guilty plea was
  entered, or another judge if that judge is unavailable, shall conduct a
  separate sentencing hearing to determine the punishment to be imposed. The
  hearing shall be conducted--
  `(1) before the jury that determined the defendant's guilt;
  `(2) before a jury impaneled for the purpose of the hearing if--
  `(A) the defendant was convicted upon a plea of guilty;
  `(B) the defendant was convicted after a trial before the court sitting
  without a jury;
  `(C) the jury that determined the defendant's guilt was discharged for
  good cause; or
  `(D) after initial imposition of a sentence under this section,
  reconsideration of the sentence under this section is necessary; or
  `(3) before the court alone, upon the motion of the defendant and with
  the approval of the attorney for the government.
A jury impaneled pursuant to paragraph (2) shall consist of twelve members,
unless, at any time before the conclusion of the hearing, the parties
stipulate, with the approval of the court, that it shall consist of a
lesser number.
  `(c) PROOF OF MITIGATING AND AGGRAVATING FACTORS- Notwithstanding rule 32(c)
  of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, when a defendant is found guilty
  or pleads guilty to an offense under section 3591, no presentence report
  shall be prepared. At the sentencing hearing, information may be presented
  as to any matter relevant to the sentence, including any mitigating or
  aggravating factor permitted or required to be considered under section
  3592. Information presented may include the trial transcript and exhibits if
  the hearing is held before a jury or judge not present during the trial. Any
  other information relevant to a mitigating or aggravating factor may be
  presented by either the attorney for the government or the defendant,
  regardless of its admissibility under the rules governing admission of
  evidence at criminal trials, except that information may be excluded if its
  probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of creating unfair
  prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury. The government and
  the defendant shall be permitted to rebut any information received at the
  hearing, and shall be given fair opportunity to present argument as to the
  adequacy of the information to establish the existence of any aggravating
  or mitigating factor, and as to the appropriateness in the case of imposing
  a sentence of death. The government shall open the argument. The defendant
  shall be permitted to reply. The government shall then be permitted to reply
  in rebuttal. The burden of establishing the existence of any aggravating
  factor is on the government, and is not satisfied unless the existence
  of such a factor is established beyond a reasonable doubt. The burden of
  establishing the existence of any mitigating factor is on the defendant,
  and is not satisfied unless the existence of such a factor is established
  by a preponderance of the information.
  `(d) RETURN OF SPECIAL FINDINGS- The jury, or if there is no jury, the
  court, shall consider all the information received during the hearing. It
  shall return special findings identifying any aggravating factor or factors
  set forth in section 3592 found to exist and any other aggravating factor
  for which notice has been provided under subsection (a) found to exist. A
  finding with respect to a mitigating factor may be made by one or more
  members of the jury, and any member of the jury who finds the existence of a
  mitigating factor may consider such factor established for purposes of this
  section regardless of the number of jurors who concur with the factor has
  been established. A finding with respect to any aggravating factor must be
  unanimous. If no aggravating factor set forth in section 3592 is found to
  exist, the court shall impose a sentence other than death authorized by law.
  `(e) RETURN OF A FINDING CONCERNING A SENTENCE OF DEATH- If, in the case of--
  `(1) an offense described in section 3591(a), an aggravating factor required
  to be considered under section 3592(b) is found to exist; or
  `(2) an offense described in section 3591 (b) or (c), an aggravating factor
  required to be considered under section 3592(c) is found to exist;
the jury, or if there is no jury, the court, shall then consider whether all
the aggravating factor or factors found to exist sufficiently outweigh all the
mitigating factor or factors found to exist to justify a sentence of death,
or, in the absence of a mitigating factor, whether the aggravating factor or
factors alone are sufficient to justify a sentence of death. Based upon this
consideration, the jury by unanimous vote, or if there is no jury, the court,
shall recommend whether a sentence of death shall be imposed rather than some
other lesser sentence. The jury or the court, if there is no jury, regardless
of its findings with respect to aggravating and mitigating factors, is never
required to impose a death sentence, and the jury shall be so instructed.
  `(f) SPECIAL PRECAUTION TO ASSURE AGAINST DISCRIMINATION- In a hearing
  held before a jury, the court, prior to the return of a finding under
  subsection (e), shall instruct the jury that, in considering whether a
  sentence of death is justified, it shall not consider the race, color,
  religious beliefs, national origin, or sex of the defendant or of any
  victim and that the jury is not to recommend a sentence of death unless it
  has concluded that it would recommend a sentence of death for the crime
  in question no matter what the race, color, religious beliefs, national
  origin, or sex of the defendant or of any victim may be. The jury, upon
  return of a finding under subsection (e), shall also return to the court a
  certificate, signed by each juror, that consideration of the race, color,
  religious beliefs, national origin, or sex of the defendant or any victim
  was not involved in reaching his or her individual decision and that the
  individual juror would have made the same recommendation regarding a sentence
  for the crime in question no matter what the race, color, religious beliefs,
  national origin, or sex of the defendant or any victim may be.
`Sec. 3594. Imposition of a sentence of death
  `Upon a finding under section 3593(e) that a sentence of death is justified,
  the court shall sentence the defendant to death. Upon a finding under
  section 3593(e) that a sentence of death is not justified, or under
  section 3593(d) that no aggravating factor required to be found exists,
  the court shall impose any sentence other than death that is authorized
  by law. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the maximum term
  of imprisonment for the offense is life imprisonment, the court may impose
  a sentence of life imprisonment without parole.
`Sec. 3595. Review of a sentence of death
  `(a) APPEAL- In a case in which a sentence of death is imposed, the
  sentence shall be subject to review by the court of appeals upon appeal
  by the defendant. Notice of appeal must be filed within the time specified
  for the filing of a notice of appeal. An appeal under this section may be
  consolidated with an appeal of the judgment of conviction and shall have
  priority over all other cases.
  `(b) REVIEW- The court of appeals shall review the entire record in the
  case, including--
  `(1) the evidence submitted during the trial;
  `(2) the information submitted during the sentencing hearing;
  `(3) the procedures employed in the sentencing hearing; and
  `(4) the special findings returned under section 3593(d).
  `(c) DECISION AND DISPOSITION-
  `(1) If the court of appeals determines that--
  `(A) the sentence of death was not imposed under the influence of passion,
  prejudice, or any other arbitrary factor; and
  `(B) the information supports the special finding of the existence of an
  aggravating factor required to be considered under section 3592;
it shall affirm the sentence.
  `(2) In any other case, the court of appeals shall remand the case for
  reconsideration under section 3593.
  `(3) The court of appeals shall state in writing the reasons for its
  disposition of an appeal of a sentence of death under this section.
`Sec. 3596. Implementation of a sentence of death
  `(a) A person who has been sentenced to death pursuant to the provisions
  of this chapter shall be committed to the custody of the Attorney General
  until exhaustion of the procedures for appeal of the judgment of conviction
  and for review of the sentence. When the sentence is to be implemented,
  the Attorney General shall release the person sentenced to death to the
  custody of a United States marshal, who shall supervise implementation
  of the sentence in the manner prescribed by the law of the State in
  which the sentence is imposed. If the law of such State does not provide
  for implementation of a sentence of death, the court shall designate
  another State, the law of which does so provide, and the sentence shall
  be implemented in the latter State in the manner prescribed by such law.
  `(b) A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a woman while she
  is pregnant.
  `(c) A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a person who is
  mentally retarded. A sentence of death shall not be carried out upon a
  person who, as a result of mental disability--
  `(1) cannot understand the nature of the pending proceedings, what such
  person was tried for, the reason for the punishment, or the nature of the
  punishment; or
  `(2) lacks the capacity to recognize or understand facts which would make
  the punishment unjust or unlawful, or lacks the ability to convey such
  information to counsel or to the court.
`Sec. 3597. Use of State facilities
  `(a) IN GENERAL- A United States marshal charged with supervising the
  implementation of a sentence of death may use appropriate State or local
  facilities for the purpose, may use the services of an appropriate State or
  local official or of a person such an official employs for the purpose, and
  shall pay the costs thereof in an amount approved by the Attorney General.
  `(b) EXCUSE OF AN EMPLOYEE ON MORAL OR RELIGIOUS GROUNDS- No employee of
  any State department of corrections or the Federal Bureau of Prisons and no
  employee providing services to that department or bureau under contract shall
  be required, as a condition of that employment, or contractual obligation
  to be in attendance at or to participate in any execution carried out
  under this section if such participation is contrary to the moral or
  religious convictions of the employee. For purposes of this subsection,
  the term `participation in executions' includes personal preparation of the
  condemned individual and the apparatus used for execution and supervision
  of the activities of other personnel in carrying out such activities.'.
  (b) REPEAL- Sections 3566 and 3567 of title 18, United States Code, are
  hereby repealed.
  (c) AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER ANALYSIS- (1) The chapter analysis of part II
  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding the following new
  item after the item relating to chapter 227:
3591'.
  (2) The section analysis of chapter 227 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by amending the items relating to sections 3566 and 3567 to
  read as follows:
`3566. Repealed.
`3567. Repealed.'.
SEC. 103. CONFORMING CHANGES IN TITLE 18.
  (a) AIRCRAFTS AND MOTOR VEHICLES- Section 34 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking the comma after `imprisonment for life'
  and inserting a period and striking the remainder of the section.
  (b) ESPIONAGE- Section 794(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  striking the period at the end of the section and inserting `, except that
  the sentence of death shall not be imposed unless the jury or, if there
  is no jury, the court, further finds that the offense directly concerned
  nuclear weaponry, military spacecraft or satellites, early warning systems,
  or other means of defense or retaliation against large-scale attack;
  war plans; communications intelligence or cryptographic information;
  or any other major weapons system or major element of defense strategy.'.
  (c) EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS- (1) Section 844(d) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended by striking `as provided in section 34 of this title'.
  (2) Section 844(f) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `as provided in section 34 of this title'.
  (3) Section 844(i) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  the words `as provided in section 34 of this title'.
  (d) MURDER- (1) The second undesignated paragraph of section 1111(b)
  of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
  `Whoever is guilty of murder in the first degree shall be punished by
  death or by imprisonment for life;'.
  (2) Section 1116(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `any such person who is found guilty of murder in the first degree shall
  be sentenced to imprisonment for life, and'.
  (e) KIDNAPPING- Section 1201(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by inserting after `or for life' the following: `and, if the death of any
  person results, shall be punished by death or life imprisonment'.
  (f) NONMAILABLE INJURIOUS ARTICLES- The last paragraph of section 1716
  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking the comma after
  `imprisonment for life' and inserting a period and striking the remainder
  of the paragraph.
  (g) PRESIDENTIAL ASSASSINATIONS- Subsection (c) of section 1751 of title
  18, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
  `(c) Whoever attempts to kill or kidnap any individual designated in
  subsection (a) of this section shall be punished (1) by imprisonment for
  any term of years or for life, or (2) by death or imprisonment for any term
  of years or for life, if the conduct constitutes an attempt to kill the
  President of the United States and results in bodily injury to the President
  or otherwise comes dangerously close to causing the death of the President.'.
  (h) WRECKING TRAINS- The second to the last undesignated paragraph of
  section 1992 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking the
  comma after `imprisonment for life' and inserting a period and striking
  the remainder of the section.
  (i) BANK ROBBERY- Section 2113(e) of title 18, United States Code, is
  amended by striking `or punished by death if the verdict of the jury shall
  so direct' and inserting `or if death results shall be punished by death
  or life imprisonment'.
  (j) HOSTAGE TAKING- Section 1203(a) of title 18, United States Code, is
  amended by inserting after `or for life' the following: `and, if the death
  of any person results, shall be punished by death or life imprisonment'.
  (k) RACKETEERING- (1) Section 1958 of title 18, United States Code, is
  amended by striking `and if death results, shall be subject to imprisonment
  for any term of years or for life, or shall be fined not more than $50,000,
  or both' and inserting `and if death results, shall be punished by death
  or life imprisonment, or shall be fined not more than $250,000, or both'.
  (2) Section 1959(a)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(1) for murder, by death or life imprisonment, or a fine of not more
  than $250,000, or both; and for kidnapping, by imprisonment for any term
  of years or for life, or a fine of not more than $250,000, or both;'.
  (l) GENOCIDE- Section 1091(b)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by striking `a fine of not more than $1,000,000 or imprisonment for life,'
  and inserting `, where death results, a fine of not more than $1,000,000,
  or imprisonment for life or a sentence of death,'.
SEC. 104. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO FEDERAL AVIATION ACT OF 1954.
  Section 903 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended (49 U.S.C. 1473),
  is amended by striking subsection (c).
SEC. 105. APPLICABILITY TO UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE.
  The provisions of chapter 228 of title 18, United States Code, as added
  by this Act, shall not apply to prosecutions under the Uniform Code of
  Military Justice (10 U.S.C. 801).
SEC. 106. MURDER BY A FEDERAL PRISONER.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 51 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following:
`Sec. 1118. Murder by a Federal prisoner
  `(a) Whoever, while confined in a Federal correctional institution under a
  sentence for a term of life imprisonment, murders another shall be punished
  by death or by life imprisonment without the possibility of parole.
  `(b) For the purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `Federal correctional institution' means any Federal prison,
  Federal correctional facility, Federal community program center, or Federal
  halfway house;
  `(2) the term `term of life imprisonment' means a sentence for the term
  of natural life, a sentence commuted to natural life, an indeterminate
  term of a minimum of at least fifteen years and a maximum of life, or an
  unexecuted sentence of death; and
  `(3) the term `murders' means committing first degree or second degree
  murder as defined by section 1111 of this title.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER ANALYSIS- The chapter analysis for chapter 51
  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following:
`1118. Murder by a Federal prisoner.'.
SEC. 107. RACIAL JUSTICE ACT OF 1989.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Racial Justice Act
  of 1989'.
  (b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) section 5 of the fourteenth amendment of the United States Constitution
  calls upon Congress to enforce the Constitution's promise of equality
  under law;
  (2) equality under law is tested most profoundly by whether a legal system
  tolerates race playing a role in the determination of whether and when to
  administer the ultimate penalty of death;
  (3) the death penalty is being administered in a pattern that evidences a
  significant risk that the race of the defendant, or the race of the victim
  against whom the crime was committed, influences the likelihood that the
  defendant will be sentenced to death;
  (4) the Constitution's guarantee of equal justice for all is jeopardized
  when the death penalty is imposed in a pattern in which the likelihood of
  a death sentence is affected by the race of the perpetrator or of the victim;
  (5) the United States Supreme Court has concluded that the Federal
  judiciary is institutionally unable to eliminate this jeopardy to equal
  justice in the absence of proof that a legislature, prosecutor, judge,
  or jury acted with racially invidious and discriminatory motives in the
  case of a particular defendant;
  (6) the interest in ensuring equal justice under law may be harmed, not
  only by decisions motivated by explicit racial bias, but also by government
  rules, policies, and practices that operate to reinforce the subordinate
  status to which racial minorities were relegated in our society;
  (7) the institutional need of courts to identify invidiously motivated
  perpetrators is not shared by Congress, which is empowered by section 5 of
  the fourteenth amendment to take system-wide, preventive measures not only
  to eliminate adjudicated instances of official race discrimination but also
  to eradicate wide-scale patterns and practices that entail an intolerable
  danger that persons of different races would be treated differently; and
  (8) the persistent racial problems pervading the implementation of the death
  penalty in many parts of this Nation require the Government of the United
  States to counteract the lingering effects of racial prejudice in order
  to enforce the constitutional guarantee of equal justice for all Americans.
  (c) AMENDMENT TO TITLE 28-
  (1) PROCEDURE- Part VI of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 177--RACIALLY DISCRIMINATORY CAPITAL SENTENCING
`Sec.
`2921. Definitions.
`2922. Prohibition on the imposition or execution of the death penalty in
a racially discriminatory pattern.
`2923. Data on death penalty cases.
`2924. Enforcement of the chapter.
`2925. Construction of chapter.
`Sec. 2921. Definitions
  `For purposes of the chapter--
  `(1) the term `a racially discriminatory pattern' means a situation in
  which sentences of death are imposed more frequently--
  `(A) upon persons of one race than upon persons of another race; or
  `(B) as punishment for crimes against persons of one race than as punishment
  for crimes against persons of another race,
and the greater frequency is not explained by pertinent nonracial
circumstances;
  `(2) the term `death-eligible crime' means a crime for which death is a
  punishment that is authorized by law to be imposed under any circumstances
  upon a conviction of that crime;
  `(3) the term `case of death-eligible crime' means a case in which the
  complaint, indictment, information, or any other initial or subsequent
  charging paper charges any person with a death-eligible crime; and
  `(4) the term `State or Federal entity' means any State, the District of
  Columbia, the United States, any territory thereof, and any subdivision
  or authority of any of these entities that is empowered to provide by law
  that death be imposed as punishment for crime.
`Sec. 2922. Prohibition on the imposition or execution of the death penalty
in a racially discriminatory pattern
  `(a) PROHIBITION- It is unlawful to impose or execute sentences of
  death under color of State or Federal law in a racially discriminatory
  pattern. No person shall be put to death in the execution of a sentence
  imposed pursuant to any law if that person's death sentence furthers a
  racially discriminatory pattern.
  `(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF A PATTERN- To establish that a racially discriminatory
  pattern exists for purposes of this chapter--
  `(1) ordinary methods of statistical proof shall suffice; and
  `(2) it shall not be necessary to show discriminatory motive, intent,
  or purpose on the part of any individual or institution.
  `(c) PRIMA FACIE SHOWING- (1) To establish a prima facie showing of a
  racially discriminatory pattern for purposes of this chapter, it shall
  suffice that death sentences are being imposed or executed--
  `(A) upon persons of one race with a frequency that is disproportionate
  to their representation among the numbers of persons arrested for, charged
  with, or convicted of, death-eligible crimes; or
  `(B) as punishment for crimes against persons of one race with a frequency
  that is disproportionate to their representation among persons against
  whom death-eligible crimes have been committed.
  `(2) To rebut a prima facie showing of a racially discriminatory pattern,
  a State or Federal entity must establish by clear and convincing evidence
  that identifiable and pertinent nonracial factors persuasively explain
  the observable racial disparities comprising the pattern.
`Sec. 2923. Data on death penalty cases
  `(a) DESIGNATION OF AGENCY- Any State or Federal entity that provides by
  law for death to be imposed as a punishment for any crime shall designate
  a central agency to collect and maintain pertinent data on the charging,
  disposition, and sentencing patterns for all cases of death-eligible crimes.
  `(b) RESPONSIBILITIES OF CENTRAL AGENCY- Each central agency designated
  pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
  `(1) affirmatively monitor compliance with this chapter by local officials
  and agencies;
  `(2) devise and distribute to every local official or agency responsible
  for the investigation or prosecution of death-eligible crimes a standard
  form to collect pertinent data;
  `(3) maintain all standard forms, compile and index all information contained
  in the forms, and make both the forms and the compiled information publicly
  available;
  `(4) maintain a centralized, alphabetically indexed file of all police and
  investigative reports transmitted to it by local officials or agencies in
  every case of death-eligible crime; and
  `(5) allow access to its file of police and investigative reports to the
  counsel of record for any person charged with any death-eligible crime or
  sentenced to death who has made or intends to make a claim under section
  2922 and it may also allow access to this file to other persons.
  `(c) RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL OFFICIAL- (1) Each local official responsible
  for the investigation or prosecution of death-eligible crimes shall--
  `(A) complete the standard form developed pursuant to subsection (b)(2)
  on every case of death-eligible crime; and
  `(B) transmit the standard form to the central agency no later than 3
  months after the disposition of each such case whether that disposition
  is by dismissal of charges, reduction of charges, acceptance of a plea
  of guilty to the death-eligible crime or to another crime, acquittal,
  conviction, or any decision not to proceed with prosecution.
  `(2) In addition to the standard form, the local official or agency shall
  transmit to the central agency one copy of all police and investigative
  reports made in connection with each case of death-eligible crime.
  `(d) PERTINENT DATA- The pertinent data required in the standard form
  shall be designated by the central agency but shall include, at a minimum,
  the following information:
  `(1) pertinent demographic information on all persons charged with the
  crime and all victims (including race, sex, age, and national origin);
  `(2) information on the principal features of the crime;
  `(3) information on the aggravating and mitigating factors of the crime,
  including the background and character of every person charged with the
  crime; and
  `(4) a narrative summary of the crime.
`Sec. 2924. Enforcement of the Chapter
  `(a) ACTION UNDER SECTIONS 2241, 2254, OR 2255 OF THIS TITLE- In any action
  brought in a court of the United States within the jurisdiction conferred
  by sections 2241, 2254, or 2255, in which any person raises a claim under
  section 2922--
  `(1) the court shall appoint counsel for any such person who is financially
  unable to retain counsel; and
  `(2) the court shall furnish investigative, expert or other services
  necessary for the adequate development of the claim to any such person
  who is financially unable to obtain such services.
  `(b) DETERMINATION BY A STATE COURT- Notwithstanding section 2254,
  no determination on the merits of a factual issue made by a State court
  pertinent to any claim under section 2922 shall be presumed to be correct
  unless--
  `(1) the State is in compliance with section 2923;
  `(2) the determination was made in a proceeding in a State court in which
  the person asserting the claim was afforded rights to the appointment of
  counsel and to the furnishing of investigative, expert and other services
  necessary for the adequate development of the claim which were substantially
  equivalent to those provided by subsection (a); and
  `(3) the determination is one which is otherwise entitled to be presumed
  to be correct under the criteria specified in section 2254.
`Sec. 2925. Construction of chapter
  `Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to affect in one
  way or the other the lawfulness of any sentence of death that does not
  violate section 2922.'.
  (2) AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CHAPTERS- The table of chapters of part VI of
  title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the
  following new item:
2921.'.
  (d) ACTIONS PRIOR TO THE DATE OF ENACTMENT- No person shall be barred from
  raising any claim under section 2922 of title 28, United States Code,
  as added by this section, on the ground of having failed to raise or to
  prosecute the same or a similar claim prior to enactment of the section
  nor by reason of any adjudication rendered prior to its enactment.
TITLE II--HABEAS CORPUS REFORM
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Habeas Corpus Reform Act of 1989'.
SEC. 202. SPECIAL HABEAS CORPUS PROCEDURES IN CAPITAL CASES.
  Title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting the following new
  chapter immediately following chapter 153:
`CHAPTER 154--SPECIAL HABEAS CORPUS PROCEDURES IN CAPITAL CASES
`Sec.
`2256. Prisoners in State custody subject to capital sentence; appointment of
counsel; requirement of rule of court or statute; procedures for appointment.
`2257. Mandatory stay of execution; duration; limits on stays of execution;
successive petitions.
`2258. Filing of habeas corpus petition; time requirements; tolling rules.
`2259. Evidentiary hearings; scope of Federal review; district court
adjudication.
`2260. Certificate of probable cause inapplicable.
`2261. Counsel in capital cases; trial and post-conviction; standards.
`2262. Law controlling in Federal habeas corpus proceedings; retroactivity.
`Sec. 2256. Prisoners in State custody subject to capital sentence; appointment
of counsel; requirement of rule of court or statute; procedures for appointment
  `(a) This chapter shall apply to cases arising under section 2254 of this
  title brought by prisoners in State custody who are subject to a capital
  sentence. It shall apply only if subsections (b) and (c) are satisfied.
  `(b) This chapter is applicable if a State establishes by rule of its court
  of last resort or by statute a mechanism for the appointment, compensation,
  and payment of reasonable fees and litigation expenses of competent counsel
  consistent with section 2261 of this title.
  `(c)(1) Upon receipt of notice that counsel has been appointed to represent
  a prisoner under sentence of death after the prisoner's conviction and
  sentence have been upheld on direct review in a State court of last resort
  and in the Supreme Court of the United States if application is made to
  that court, the State court of last resort shall enter an order confirming
  the appointment and shall direct its clerk to forward the record of the
  case to the attorney appointed.
  `(2) Upon receipt of notice that counsel has been offered to, but declined
  by, such a prisoner, the State court of last resort shall direct an
  appropriate court or judge to hold a hearing, at which the prisoner
  and the attorney offered to the prisoner shall be present, to determine
  whether the prisoner is competent to decide whether to accept or reject the
  appointment of counsel and whether, if competent, the prisoner knowingly and
  intelligently waives the appointment of counsel. The court or judge shall
  report its determinations to the State court of last resort, which shall
  review the determinations for error. If the State court of last resort
  concludes that the prisoner is incompetent and does not waive counsel,
  the court shall enter an order confirming the appointment of the attorney
  assigned to the prisoner by the appointing authority and shall direct the
  clerk to forward the record to the attorney appointed. If the court concludes
  that the prisoner is competent and waives counsel, the court shall enter
  an order that counsel need not be appointed and shall direct the clerk to
  forward the record to the prisoner; provided that nothing in this section
  requires the appointment of counsel to a prisoner who is not indigent.
  `(d) No counsel appointed pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) to represent
  a State prisoner in State collateral proceedings shall have previously
  represented the prisoner at trial or on direct appeal in the case for
  which the appointment is made unless the prisoner and counsel expressly
  request continued representation.
  `(e) The ineffectiveness or incompetence of counsel appointed under this
  chapter during State or Federal collateral post-conviction proceedings
  shall not be a ground for relief in a proceeding arising under this
  chapter or section 2254 of this title. This limitation shall not preclude
  the appointment of different counsel at any phase of State or Federal
  post-conviction proceedings.
`Sec. 2257. Mandatory stay of execution; duration; limits on stays of
execution; successive petitions
  `(a) Upon the entry in the State court of last resort of an order pursuant
  to section 2256(c) of this title, a warrant or order setting an execution
  date for a State prisoner shall be stayed upon application to any court that
  would have jurisdiction over any proceedings filed pursuant to section 2254
  of this title. The application must recite that the State has invoked the
  post-conviction review procedures of this chapter and that the scheduled
  execution is subject to stay.
  `(b) A stay of execution granted pursuant to subsection (a) shall expire if--
  `(1) a State prisoner fails to file a habeas corpus petition under section
  2254 of this title within the time required in section 2258 of this title; or
  `(2) upon completion of district court and court of appeals review under
  section 2254 of this title the petition for relief is denied and--
  `(A) the time for filing a petition for certiorari has expired and no
  petition has been filed;
  `(B) a timely petition for certiorari was filed and the Supreme Court
  denied the petition; or
  `(C) a timely petition for certiorari was filed and upon consideration
  of the case, the Supreme Court disposed of it in a manner that left the
  capital sentence undisturbed; or
  `(3) before a court of competent jurisdiction, in the presence of counsel
  and after having been advised of the consequences of his decision, a State
  prisoner under capital sentence waives the right to pursue habeas corpus
  review under section 2254 of this title.
  `(c) If one of the conditions in subsection (b) has occurred, no Federal
  court thereafter shall have the authority to enter a stay of execution or
  grant relief in a capital case unless--
  `(1) the basis for the stay and request for relief is a claim not previously
  presented by the prisoner in the State or Federal courts, and the failure
  to raise the claim is--
  `(A) the result of State action in violation of the Constitution or laws
  of the United States;
  `(B) the result of the Supreme Court recognition of a new Federal right
  that is retroactively applicable; or
  `(C) based on a factual predicate that could not have been discovered
  through the exercise of reasonable diligence; or
  `(2) the facts underlying the claim would be sufficient, if proven, to
  undermine the court's confidence in the jury's determination of guilt on
  the offense or offenses for which the death penalty was imposed; or
  `(3) a stay and consideration of the requested relief are necessary to
  prevent a miscarriage of justice.
`Sec. 2258. Filing of habeas corpus petition; time requirements; tolling rules
  `Any petition for habeas corpus relief under section 2254 of this title must
  be filed in the appropriate district court not later than 365 days after
  the date of filing in the State court of last resort of an order issued
  in compliance with section 2256(c) of this title. The time requirements
  established by this section shall be tolled--
  `(1) from the date that a petition for certiorari is filed in the Supreme
  Court until the date of final disposition of the petition if a State
  prisoner seeks review of a capital sentence that has been affirmed on
  direct appeal by the court of last resort of the State or has otherwise
  become final for State law purposes;
  `(2) during any period in which a State prisoner under capital sentence
  has a properly filed request for post-conviction review pending before a
  State court of competent jurisdiction; if all State filing rules are met
  in a timely manner, this period shall run continuously from the date that
  the State prisoner initially files for post-conviction review until final
  disposition of the case by the State court of last resort, and further
  until final disposition of the matter by the Supreme Court of the United
  States, if a timely petition for review is filed; and
  `(3) during an additional period not to exceed 90 days, if counsel for
  the State prisoner--
  `(A) moves for an extension of time in the United States district court
  that would have proper jurisdiction over the case upon the filing of a
  habeas corpus petition under section 2254 of this title; and
  `(B) makes a showing of good cause for counsel's inability to file the
  habeas corpus petition within the 365-day period established by this section.
`Sec. 2259. Evidentiary hearings; scope of Federal review; district court
adjudication
  `(a) Whenever a State prisoner under a capital sentence files a petition
  for habeas corpus relief to which this chapter applies, the district
  court shall--
  `(1) determine the sufficiency of the evidentiary record for habeas corpus
  review; and
  `(2) conduct any requested evidentiary hearing necessary to complete the
  record for habeas corpus review.
  `(b) Upon the development of a complete evidentiary record, the district
  court shall rule on the merits of the claims properly before it.
  `(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a district court may refuse
  to consider a claim under this section if--
  `(A) the prisoner previously failed to raise the claim in State court at
  the time and in the manner prescribed by State law;
  `(B) the State courts, for that reason, refused or would refuse to entertain
  the claim; and
  `(C) such refusal would constitute an adequate and independent State law
  ground that would foreclose direct review of the State court judgment in
  the United States Supreme Court.
  `(2) A district court shall consider a claim under this section if the
  prisoner shows that the failure to raise the claim in a State court was due
  to the ignorance or neglect of the prisoner or counsel or if the failure
  to consider such a claim would result in a miscarriage of justice.
`Sec. 2260. Certificate of probable cause inapplicable
  `The requirement of a certificate of probable cause in order to appeal
  from the district court to the court of appeals does not apply to habeas
  corpus cases subject to this chapter except when a second or successive
  petition is filed.
`Sec. 2261. Counsel in capital cases; trial and post-conviction; standards
  `(a) A mechanism for the provision of counsel services to indigents
  sufficient to invoke the provisions of this chapter under section 2256(b)
  of this title shall provide for counsel to indigents charged with offenses
  for which capital punishment is sought, to indigents who have been sentenced
  to death and who seek appellate or collateral review in State court, and to
  indigents who have been sentenced to death and who seek certiorari review
  in the United States Supreme Court.
  `(b)(1) In the case of an appointment made before trial, at least one
  attorney appointed under this chapter must have been admitted to practice
  in the court in which the prosecution is to be tried for not less than 5
  years, and must have had not less than 3 years' experience in the trial
  of felony prosecutions in that court.
  `(2) In the case of an appointment made after trial, at least one attorney
  appointed under this chapter must have been admitted to practice in the
  court of last resort of the State for not less than 5 years, and must have
  had not less than 3 years' experience in the handling of appeals in that
  State courts in felony cases.
  `(3) Notwithstanding this subsection, a court, for good cause, may
  appoint another attorney whose background, knowledge, or experience would
  otherwise enable the attorney to properly represent the defendant, with
  due consideration of the seriousness of the possible penalty and the unique
  and complex nature of the litigation.
  `(c) Upon a finding in ex parte proceedings that investigative, expert
  or other services are reasonably necessary for the representation of the
  defendant, whether in connection with issues relating to guilt or issues
  relating to sentence, the court shall authorize the defendant's attorney
  to obtain such services on behalf of the defendant and shall order the
  payment of fees and expenses therefor, under subsection (d). Upon finding
  that timely procurement of such services could not practicably await prior
  authorization, the court may authorize the provision of and payment of
  such services nunc pro tunc.
  `(d) Notwithstanding the rates and maximum limits generally applicable to
  criminal cases and any other provision of law to the contrary, the court
  shall fix the compensation to be paid to an attorney appointed under this
  subsection and the fees and expenses to be paid for investigative, expert,
  and other reasonably necessary services authorized under subsection (c),
  at such rates or amounts as the court determines to be reasonably necessary
  to carry out the requirements of this subsection.
`Sec. 2262. Law controlling in Federal habeas corpus proceedings; retroactivity
  `In cases subject to this chapter, all claims shall be governed by the law
  as it was when the petitioner's sentence became final, supplemented by
  any interim change in the law, if the court determines, in light of the
  purpose to be served by the change, the extent of reliance on previous
  law by law enforcement authorities, and the effect on the administration
  of justice, that it would be just to give the prisoner the benefit of the
  interim change in the law.'.
TITLE III--EXCLUSIONARY RULE
SEC. 301. SEARCHES AND SEIZURES PURSUANT TO AN INVALID WARRANT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 109 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 2237. Evidence obtained by invalid warrant
  `Evidence which is obtained as a result of search or seizure shall not
  be excluded in a proceeding in a court of the United States on the ground
  that the search or seizure was in violation of the Fourth Amendment to the
  Constitution of the United States, if the search or seizure was carried
  out in reasonable reliance on a warrant issued by a detached and neutral
  magistrate ultimately found to be invalid, unless--
  `(1) the judicial officer in issuing the warrant was materially misled by
  information in an affidavit that the affiant knew was false or would have
  known was false except for his reckless disregard of the truth;
  `(2) the judicial officer provided approval of the warrant without exercising
  a neutral and detached review of the application for the warrant;
  `(3) the warrant was based on an affidavit so lacking in indicia of probable
  cause as to render official belief in its existence entirely unreasonable; or
  `(4) the warrant is so facially deficient that the executing officers
  could not reasonably presume it to be valid.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER ANALYSIS- The chapter analysis for chapter 109
  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following:
`2237. Evidence obtained by invalid warrant.'.
TITLE IV--ASSAULT WEAPONS
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Antidrug, Assault Weapons Limitation Act
  of 1989'.
SEC. 402. UNLAWFUL ACTS.
  Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end thereof the following:
  `(q)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), it shall be unlawful for
  any person to transfer, import, transport, ship, receive, or possess any
  assault weapon.
  `(2) This subsection does not apply with respect to--
  `(A) transferring, importing, transporting, shipping, and receiving to
  or by, or possession by or under, authority of the United States or any
  department or agency thereof, or of any State or any department, agency,
  or political subdivision thereof, of such an assault weapon, or
  `(B) any lawful transferring, transporting, shipping, receiving,
  or possession of such a weapon that was lawfully possessed before the
  effective date of this subsection.
  `(r)(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, ship, or deliver an
  assault weapon to any person who does not fill out a form 4473 (pursuant
  to 27 CFR 178.124), or equivalent, in the purchase of such assault weapon.
  `(2) It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, possess, or accept
  delivery of an assault weapon unless such person has filled out such a
  form 4473, or equivalent, in the purchase of such assault weapon.
  `(3) If a person purchases an assault weapon from anyone other than
  a licensed dealer, both the purchaser and the seller shall maintain
  a record of the sale on the seller's original copy of such form 4473,
  or equivalent. The purchaser and seller shall both retain copies of such
  form for all subsequent transactions regarding such assault weapon.
  `(4) Any current owner of an assault weapon that requires retention of form
  4473, or equivalent, pursuant to the provisions of this subsection who,
  prior to the effective date of this subsection purchased such a weapon,
  shall, within 90 days after the issuing of regulations by the Secretary
  pursuant to paragraph (5), request a copy of such form from any licensed
  dealer, as defined in this title, in accordance with such regulations.
  `(5) The Secretary shall, within 90 days after the date of enactment of
  this section, prescribe regulations for the request and delivery of such
  form 4473, or equivalent.'.
SEC. 403. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following:
  `(25) The term `assault weapon' means any firearm designated as an assault
  weapon in this paragraph, including:
  `(A) Norinco, Mitchell, and Poly Technologies Avtomat Kalashnikovs
  (all models),
  `(B) Action Arms Israeli Military Industries UZI and Galil,
  `(C) Beretta AR-70 (SC-70),
  `(D) Colt AR-15 and CAR-15,
  `(E) Fabrique Nationale FN/FAL, FN/LAR, and FNC,
  `(F) MAC 10 and MAC 11,
  `(G) Steyr AUG,
  `(H) INTRATEC TEC-9, and
  `(I) Street Sweeper and Striker 12.'.
SEC. 404. SECRETARY TO RECOMMEND DESIGNATION AS ASSAULT WEAPON.
  Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
` 931. Additional assault weapons
  `The Secretary, in consultation with the Attorney General, may, when
  appropriate, recommend to the Congress the addition or deletion of firearms
  to be designated as assault weapons.'; and
  (2) in the table of sections by adding at the end thereof the following
  new item:
`931. Additional assault weapons.'.
SEC. 405. ENHANCED PENALTIES.
  Section 924(c) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `and if the firearm is an assault weapon, to imprisonment for 10 years,'
  after `sentenced to imprisonment for five years,'.
SEC. 406. PENALTIES FOR IMPROPER TRANSFER, STEALING FIREARM, OR SMUGGLING
A FIREARM IN DRUG-RELATED OFFENSE.
  Section 924 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by--
  (1) redesignating subsections (f) and (g), and any references to such
  subsections, as added by section 6211 of Public Law 100-690, as subsections
  (g) and (h), respectively; and
  (2) adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(i) Whoever knowingly fails to acquire form 4473, or equivalent (pursuant
  to 27 CFR 178.124), with respect to the lawful transferring, transporting,
  shipping, receiving, or possessing of any assault weapon, as required by
  the provisions of this chapter, shall be fined under this title, imprisoned
  for not more than 6 months, or both.
  `(j) Whoever steals any firearm which is moving as, or is a part of, or
  which has moved in, interstate or foreign commerce shall be imprisoned
  for not less than 2 or more than 10 years, and may be fined under this title.
  `(k) Whoever, with the intent to engage in, or to promote, conduct which--
  `(1) is punishable under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801
  et seq.), the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951
  et seq.), or the Maritime Drug Law Enforcement Act (46 U.S.C. App. 1901
  et seq.);
  `(2) violates any law of a State relating to any controlled substance (as
  defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802); or
  `(3) constitutes a crime of violence (as defined in subsection (c)(3));
smuggles or knowingly brings into the United States a firearm, or attempts
to do so, shall be imprisoned for not more than 10 years, fined under this
title, or both.'.
SEC. 407. DISABILITY.
  Section 922(g)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  before the semicolon at the end thereof the following: `or a violation of
  section 924(i) of this chapter'.
SEC. 408. REVOCATION OF SUPERVISED RELEASE.
  Section 3583 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(h) MANDATORY REVOCATION FOR POSSESSION OF A FIREARM- If the court has
  provided, as a condition of supervised release, that the defendant refrain
  from possessing a firearm, and if the defendant is in actual possession of a
  firearm, as that term is defined in section 921 of this title, at any time
  prior to the expiration or termination of the term of supervised release,
  the court shall, after a hearing pursuant to the provisions of the Federal
  Rules of Criminal Procedure that are applicable to probation revocation,
  revoke the term of supervised release and, subject to the limitations
  of paragraph (e)(3) of this section, require the defendant to serve in
  prison all or part of the term of supervised release without credit for
  time previously served on postrelease supervision.'.
SEC. 409. STUDY BY ATTORNEY GENERAL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General is authorized and directed to
  investigate and study the effect of the provisions of this title and the
  amendments made by this title and any impact therefrom on violent and drug
  trafficking crime. Such study shall be done over a period of 18 months,
  commencing 12 months after the date of enactment of this title.
  (b) REPORT- No later than 30 months after the date of enactment of this
  title, the Attorney General shall prepare and submit to the Senate of
  the United States, a report setting forth in detail the findings and
  determinations made pursuant to subsection (a).
SEC. 410. SUNSET PROVISION.
  Unless otherwise provided, this title and the amendments made by this
  title shall become effective 30 days after the date of enactment of this
  title. This title, except for paragraph (1) of section 406, portions of
  paragraph (2) of section 406 adding subsections (j) and (k) to section 924
  of title 18, United States Code, and section 408, shall be effective for
  a period of 3 years. At the end of such 3-year period this title and the
  amendments made by this title, except for paragraph (1) of section 406,
  portions of paragraph (2) of section 406 adding subsection (j) and (k)
  to section 924 of title 18, United States Code, and section 408, shall
  be repealed.
TITLE V--INTERNATIONAL MONEY LAUNDERING
SEC. 501. REPORTS ON USES MADE OF CURRENCY TRANSACTION REPORTS.
  (a) REPORT TO CONGRESS ON USE OF TRANSACTION REPORTS- Not later than 180
  days after the effective date of this section, and annually thereafter
  for 3 years, the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to the Congress
  the following:
  (1) the number of each type of report filed pursuant to subchapter II of
  chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code (or regulations promulgated
  thereunder) in the previous fiscal year;
  (2) the number of reports filed pursuant to section 6050I of the Internal
  Revenue Code of 1986 (regarding transactions involving currency) in the
  previous fiscal year;
  (3) an estimate of the rate of compliance with the reporting requirements by
  persons required to file the reports referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2);
  (4) the manner in which the Department of the Treasury and other agencies of
  the United States collect, organize, analyze and use the reports referred
  to in paragraphs (1) and (2) to support investigations and prosecutions of
  (A) violations of the criminal laws of the United States, (B) violations
  of the laws of foreign countries, and (C) civil enforcement of the laws
  of the United States including the provisions regarding asset forfeiture;
  (5) a summary of sanctions imposed in the previous fiscal year against
  persons who failed to comply with the reporting requirements referred to
  paragraphs (1) and (2), and other steps taken to ensure maximum compliance;
  (6) a summary of criminal indictments filed in the previous fiscal year
  which resulted, in large part, from investigations initiated by analysis
  of the reports referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2); and
  (7) a summary of criminal indictments filed in the previous fiscal year
  which resulted, in large part, from investigations initiated by information
  regarding suspicious financial transactions provided voluntarily by
  financial institutions.
  (b) ADVISORY GROUP ON REPORTING REQUIREMENTS- Not later than 90 days
  after the effective date of this section, the Secretary shall establish an
  Advisory Group on Reports on Monetary Instruments Transactions consisting
  of representatives of the Department of the Treasury and of financial
  institutions and other persons subject to the reporting requirements
  referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a). The Advisory
  Group shall provide a means by which the Secretary--
  (1) informs private sector representatives, on a regular basis, of the
  ways in which the reports referred to in subsections (a) (1) and (2)
  have been used for the purposes described in subsection (a)(4);
  (2) informs private sector representatives, on a regular basis, of
  how information regarding suspicious financial transactions provided
  voluntarily by financial institutions has been used for the purposes
  described in subsection (a)(4); and
  (3) receives advice on the manner in which the reporting requirements
  referred to in subsections (a) (1) and (2) should be modified to enhance
  the ability of law enforcement agencies to use the information provided
  for law enforcement purposes.
SEC. 502. ELECTRONIC SCANNING OF CERTAIN UNITED STATES CURRENCY NOTES.
  (a) ELECTRONIC SCANNING TASK FORCE- (1) Not more than thirty days after
  the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury
  (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Secretary') shall appoint
  an Electronic Scanning Task Force (hereafter in this section referred to
  as the `Task Force') to--
  (A) study methods of printing on United States currency notes issued under
  section 51115 of title 31, United States Code, in denominations of $10 or
  more a serial number on each such United States currency note that may be
  read by electronic scanning;
  (B) make an assessment of the cost of implementing such electronic scanning
  of such United States currency notes; and
  (C) make recommendations about the amount of time needed to implement such
  electronic scanning.
  (2) In appointing members to the Task Force described in subsection
  (a), the Secretary shall appoint such number of members as the Secretary
  determines to be appropriate. The Secretary, shall, at a minimum appoint
  to the Task Force--
  (A) the Assistant Secretary for Enforcement in the Department of the Treasury
  (who shall serve as a nonvoting, ex officio member); and
  (B) at least one recognized expert from each of the following fields
  relating to electronic scanning technology:
  (i) coding,
  (ii) symbology,
  (iii) scanning systems,
  (iv) computer data compilation, and
  (v) printing technology.
  (3) Except as provided in paragraph (2)(A), no individual who is a full-time
  employee of the Federal Government may serve as a member of the Task Force.
  (4) The provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply
  with respect to the Task Force.
  (5) Members of the Task Force shall, while attending meetings and conferences
  of the Task Force or otherwise engaging in the business of the Task Force
  (including travel time), be entitled to receive compensation at a rate
  fixed by the Secretary, but not exceeding the rate specified at the time
  of such service under GS-18 of the General Schedule established under
  section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.
  (6) While away from their homes or regular places of business on the
  business of the Task Force, such members may be allowed travel expenses,
  including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703
  of title 5, United States Code, for persons employed intermittently in
  the Government service.
  (7) Upon the issuance of the report by the Secretary under subsection (b),
  the Task Force shall cease to exist.
  (b) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS- Not later than one hundred and eighty days
  after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue a
  report to the appropriate committees of the Congress that summarizes the
  findings and recommendations of the Task Force under subsection (a)(1),
  and includes any additional recommendations by the Secretary.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
SEC. 503. CONFORMING AMENDMENT OF PROVISION RELATING TO THE EQUITABLE TRANSFER
TO A PARTICIPATING FOREIGN NATION OF FORFEITED PROPERTY OR PROCEEDS.
  Section 981(i) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `In the case of property subject to forfeiture under
  subsection (a)(1)(B), the following additional provisions shall, to the
  extent provided by treaty, apply:';
  (2) in paragraph (1), by striking the first two sentences and inserting the
  following: `Whenever property is civilly or criminally forfeited under this
  chapter, the Attorney General may transfer the forfeited personal property
  or the proceeds of the sale of any forfeited personal or real property to
  any foreign country which participated directly or indirectly in the seizure
  or forfeiture of the property, if such a transfer (i) has been agreed to by
  the Secretary of State, (ii) is authorized in an international agreement
  between the United States and the foreign country, and (iii) is made to
  a country that, if applicable, has been certified under section 481(h)
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.'; and
  (3) in paragraph (1), by striking the last sentence.
SEC. 504. ADDITION OF CONFORMING PREDICATE MONEY LAUNDERING REFERENCES TO
`INSIDER' EXEMPTION FROM THE RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT.
  Section 1113(l)(2) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12
  U.S.C. 3413(l)(2)) is amended by inserting `or of section 1956 or 1957
  of title 18, United States Code' after `any provision of subchapter II of
  chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code'.
SEC. 505. CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF `MONETARY INSTRUMENTS'.
  Section 1956(c)(5) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(5) the term `monetary instruments' means (i) coin or currency of the
  United States or of any other country, travelers' checks, personal checks,
  bank checks, and money orders, or (ii) investment securities or negotiable
  instruments, in bearer form or otherwise in such form that title thereto
  passes upon delivery;'.
SEC. 506. MONEY LAUNDERING AMENDMENTS.
  Section 1956(c)(1) is amended by striking `State or Federal' and inserting
  `State, Federal, or foreign'.
SEC. 507. DEFINITION OF `SPECIFIED UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY' FOR MONEY LAUNDERING
STATUTE.
  Section 1956(c)(7)(D) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `sections 1005-07 (relating to false statements by an
  employee of a financial institution), section 1014 (relating to false
  statements in connection with loan and credit applications),' after
  `section 875 (relating to interstate communications),'; and
  (2) by striking `section 1344 (relating to bank fraud),'.
SEC. 508. RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT AMENDMENT.
  Section 1103(c) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3403(c))
  is amended in the last sentence--
  (1) by striking `or' after `such disclosure' and inserting a comma; and
  (2) by inserting before the period the following:
  `, or for a refusal to do business with that customer after having made
  such disclosure'.
SEC. 509. CORRECTION OF ERRONEOUS PREDICATE OFFENSE REFERENCE UNDER 18
U.S.C. 1956.
  Section 1956(c)(7)(D) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  striking out `section 310 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 830)
  (relating to precursor and essential chemicals)' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `a felony violation of the Chemical Diversion and Trafficking Act
  of 1988 (relating to precursor and essential chemicals)'.
SEC. 510. KNOWLEDGE REQUIREMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL MONEY LAUNDERING.
  Section 1956(a)(2) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2) by inserting at the end the following: `For the
  purpose of the offense described in subparagraph (B), the defendant's
  knowledge may be established by proof that a law enforcement officer
  represented the matter specified in subparagraph (B) as true, and the
  defendant's subsequent statements or actions indicate that the defendant
  believed such representations to be true.'; and
  (2) in paragraph (3) by striking `For purposes of this paragraph' and
  inserting `For purposes of this paragraph and paragraph (2)'.
TITLE VI--ORGANIZED CRIME AND DANGEROUS DRUG DIVISION
Subtitle A--Establishment of an Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division
in the Department of Justice
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Justice Department Organized Crime and
  Drug Enforcement Enhancement Act of 1989'.
SEC. 602. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) organized criminal activity contributes significantly to the importation,
  distribution, and sale of illegal and dangerous drugs;
  (2) trends in drug trafficking patterns necessitate a response that gives
  significant weight to--
  (A) the prosecution of drug related crimes; and
  (B) the forfeiture and seizure of assets and other civil remedies used to
  strike at the inherent strength of the drug networks and groups;
  (3) the structure of the Department of Justice Criminal Division is
  inadequate to address such drug-related problems; and
  (4) the prosecutorial resources devoted to such problems have been
  inadequately organized.
SEC. 603. PURPOSES.
  The purposes of this title are to--
  (1) establish a new division in the Department of Justice by combining the
  resources of the Criminal Division and the United States Attorneys offices
  used for the eradication of organized crime, narcotics, and dangerous
  drugs with additional resources needed to pursue civil sanctions;
  (2) enhance the ability of the Department of Justice to deal with
  international criminal activity;
  (3) enhance the ability of the Department of Justice to maintain a vigorous
  criminal and equally important civil assault upon organized criminal groups
  and narcotics traffickers both domestic and international;
  (4) enhance the ability of the Department of Justice to attack money
  laundering activities, both domestic and international; and
  (5) maintain the level of effort of the Department of Justice against
  traditional organized crime activity through the maintenance of independent
  strike forces.
SEC. 604. ESTABLISHMENT OF ORGANIZED CRIME AND DANGEROUS DRUGS DIVISION.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established within the Department of Justice,
  the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division, which shall consist
  initially of the following units and programs of the Department of Justice
  as they were organized and were functioning on September 30, 1989:
  (1) the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section of the Criminal Division
  and all subordinate strike forces therein;
  (2) the Narcotic and Dangerous Drug Section of the Criminal Division;
  (3) the Asset Forfeiture Office of the Criminal Division; and
  (4) the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force Program.
  (b) TRANSFER- (1) There are transferred to the Organized Crime and Dangerous
  Drugs Division--
  (A) all functions of each office and program described under subsection (a)
  (1), (2), (3), and (4) exercised on September 30, 1989; and
  (B) all personnel and available funds of each such office and program.
  (2) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(A) the term `functions' means
  all duties, obligations, powers, authorities, responsibilities, rights,
  privileges, activities, and programs.
SEC. 605. ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR ORGANIZED CRIME AND DANGEROUS DRUGS.
  (a) ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL- There shall be at the head of the Organized
  Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division established by this title, an Assistant
  Attorney General of the Department of Justice for the Organized Crime and
  Dangerous Drugs Division, who shall--
  (1) be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of
  the Senate;
  (2) report directly to the Attorney General of the United States;
  (3) coordinate all activities and policies of the Division with the Director
  of National Drug Control Policy; and
  (4) ensure that all investigations and prosecutions are coordinated within
  the Department of Justice to provide the greatest use of civil proceedings
  and forfeitures to attack the financial resources of organized criminal
  and narcotics enterprises.
  (b) COMPENSATION- (1) Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is
  amended by striking out:
  `Assistant Attorneys General (10).'
and inserting in lieu thereof:
  `Assistant Attorneys General (11).'.
  (2) The Assistant Attorney General of the Organized Crime and Dangerous
  Drugs Division shall be paid at the rate of basic pay payable for level
  IV of the Executive Schedule.
SEC. 606. DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established the position of Deputy Assistant
  Attorney General of the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division,
  who shall report directly and be responsible to the Assistant Attorney
  General of the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division.
  (b) COMPENSATION- The Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Organized
  Crime and Dangerous Drugs Division shall be paid the rate of basic pay
  payable for level V of the Executive Schedule.
SEC. 607. ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF THE DIVISION.
  There shall be established within the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs
  Division such sections and offices as the Attorney General shall deem
  appropriate to maintain or increase the level of enforcement activities
  in the following areas:
  (1) Criminal Racketeering (including of all activities and personnel
  transferred from the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section dealing with
  criminal investigation and prosecution of traditional organized crime,
  other than civil proceedings or forfeiture);
  (2) Criminal Narcotics Trafficking (including all activities and personnel
  transferred from the Criminal Division and the Organized Crime Drug
  Enforcement Task Force Program dealing with large scale drug trafficking);
  (3) Money laundering (including all activities transferred from the Criminal
  Division and Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force Program dealing
  with money laundering investigations and the negotiation of international
  agreements on financial crimes);
  (4) Asset Forfeiture (including all activities and personnel transferred
  from the Criminal Division dealing with asset forfeiture);
  (5) International Crime (indicating the activities and functions set forth
  in Subtitle B of this title); and
  (6) Civil Enforcement (including activities and personnel currently engaged
  in civil enforcement of the drug and racketeering laws and such additional
  personnel as may be added pursuant to this Act).
SEC. 608. COORDINATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF FIELD ACTIVITIES.
  (a) ORGANIZED CRIME AND DANGEROUS DRUGS DIVISION- The Attorney General
  shall establish no fewer than 20 field offices of the Organized Crime and
  Dangerous Drug Division. All such field offices of the Division shall be
  known as Organized Crime and Dangerous Drug Strike Forces.
  (b) OFFICES IN SAME AREA- If two or more sections of the Division establish
  field offices in the same metropolitan area, such offices shall--
  (A) be in the same location;
  (B) coordinate activities; and
  (C) be organized as separate sections of a strike force.
  (c) TRANSITION- (1) Consistent with the provisions of this title--
  (A) the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section of the Criminal Division
  is redesignated as the Criminal Racketeering Section of the Organized
  Crime and Dangerous Drug Division; and
  (B) the Organized Crime Strike Forces are redesignated as the field offices
  of the Division.
  (2) Within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subtitle,
  the Attorney General shall transfer all attorneys and support staff
  assigned to the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces before such
  date to the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drug Division and designated
  the Criminal Narcotics Section. The Assistant Attorney General for such
  Division shall assign such personnel to the field offices of the Division,
  with the initial assignments being made to the cities where units of such
  Task Forces were located before the date of enactment of this subtitle.
  (3)(A) Consistent with the provisions of this title, the Asset Forfeiture
  Office of the Criminal Division is redesignated as the Asset Forfeiture and
  Civil Enforcement Section of the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drug Division.
  (B) Within 180 days after the date of the enactment of this subtitle,
  the Assistant Attorney General shall establish field offices of the
  Asset Forfeiture and Civil Enforcement Section of the Organized Crime and
  Dangerous Drug Division which shall include--
  (i) agents from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the
  Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service, and United
  States Marshals Office; and
  (ii) other individuals experienced, trained and expert in complex financial
  transactions involving cash, notes, securities, and similar negotiable
  instruments, with a special expertise in banking matters and business
  dealings.
  (d) DIFFERENT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE- Nothing in subsection (c) shall
  prevent the Attorney General, consistent with the purposes of this title and
  the provisions of section 607, from instituting a different organizational
  structure within the Organized Crime and Dangerous Drug Division as the
  Attorney General shall deem appropriate following a period of transition.
  (e) STRIKE FORCES PLANS- (1) The agents assigned to the Organized Crime
  and Dangerous Drug Strike Forces (including all agents assigned to the
  Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces program before the date of
  enactment of this title) shall be dedicated exclusively to and located
  with the Strike Forces so that the Strike Forces personnel may develop
  expertise and function as a working unit.
  (2) The agents assigned to the Strike Forces from the various participating
  agencies shall be given credit for the work of the Strike Forces, regardless
  of the statutory authority used to prosecute Strike Forces cases.
  (f) REPORT- Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this title,
  the Assistant Attorney General for Organized Crime and Dangerous Drugs in
  consultation with the Director of National Drug Control Policy, shall report
  to the Congress on the areas of the United States (especially the southwest
  border of the United States) that may require increased assistance from the
  Department of Justice through the establishment of additional strike forces.
  (g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) There are authorized to be
  appropriated $45,000,000 for salaries and expenses of the Organized Crime and
  Dangerous Drug Division of the Department of Justice for fiscal year 1990.
  (2) Any appropriation of funds authorized under paragraph (1) shall be--
  (A) in addition to any appropriations requested by the President in the
  1990 fiscal year budget submitted by the President to the Congress for
  fiscal year 1990, or provided in regular appropriations Acts or continuing
  resolutions for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990; and
  (B) used to increase the number of field attorneys and related support
  staff by no fewer than 100 full-time equivalent positions over such
  personnel levels employed at the Department of Justice on September 30,
  1989, assigned to the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section Strike
  Forces and Organized Crime Drug Task Forces.
Subtitle B--International Prosecution Teams
SEC. 611. INTERNATIONAL PROSECUTION TEAMS.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) Drug trafficking, organized crime, and money laundering are problems
  that are international in scope.
  (2) The traditional focus of United States law enforcement agencies on
  domestic criminal activity has restricted the development of the necessary
  expertise and coordination to address the international aspects of these
  problems adequately.
  (3) The Justice Department must expand its resources and reorganize its
  component to engage in new responsibilities and activities involving
  international crime.
  (4) Other agencies, particularly those involved in intelligence gathering,
  international banking, foreign policy, and national defense, must coordinate
  their activities with the Justice Department to support its effort to
  combat international crime.
  (b) INTERNATIONAL DRUG ENFORCEMENT TEAMS- In addition to the components
  and functions otherwise specified in this chapter, the Organized Crime
  and Dangerous Drug Division shall include no fewer than 10 International
  Drug Enforcement Teams devoted exclusively to investigating prosecuting
  and supporting the investigation and prosecution of international
  drug cases. Such teams shall be responsible for developing expertise in
  handling civil and criminal cases involving extradition, money laundering,
  drug-related corruption, and other complex cases relating to international
  drug trafficking.
  (c) RELATIONSHIP OF TEAM MEMBERS- Organized Crime and Dangerous Drug
  Division personnel assigned to the International Drug Enforcement
  Teams shall work closely with, and where practical be co-located with,
  agents and liaison personnel of the various law enforcement, diplomatic,
  intelligence, and military agencies who shall be assigned as necessary to
  the enforcement teams.
  (d) GOALS- The teams shall be organized to--
  (1) increase the expertise of the Department of Justice in matters relating
  to international law enforcement and foreign policy;
  (2) direct intelligence efforts toward gathering information and evidence
  that can be used by civilian authorities in criminal and civil cases while
  protecting the assets and methods of United States agencies;
  (3) improve coordination among United States and foreign agencies responsible
  for law enforcement, foreign policy, and international banking;
  (4) target resources toward cases with maximum impact on international
  narcotics trafficking;
  (5) gain the cooperation of private entities in the United States and
  foreign countries whose cooperation in cases involving money laundering
  and other drug-related financial crimes is essential; and
  (6) assist other countries to enact laws and negotiate treaties to assist in
  the suppression of international money laundering and narcotics trafficking.
S 1970 PCS----2
S 1970 PCS----3
S 1970 PCS----4
S 1970 PCS----5
S 1970 PCS----6