Calendar No. 295
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 135
[Report No. 101-165]
A BILL
To amend title 5, United States Code, to restore to Federal civilian employees
their right to participate voluntarily, as private citizens, in the political
processes of the Nation, to protect such employees from improper political
solicitations, and for other purposes.
October 17 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported without amendment
S 135 RS
Calendar No. 295
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 135
[Report No. 101-165]
To amend title 5, United States Code, to restore to Federal civilian employees
their right to participate voluntarily, as private citizens, in the political
processes of the Nation, to protect such employees from improper political
solicitations, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
JANUARY 25 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. GLENN (for himself, Mr. DECONCINI, Mr. PRYOR, Mr. STEVENS, Mr. HEINZ,
Mr. ADAMS, Mr. BURDICK, Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. DODD, Mr. LIEBERMAN, Mr. SANFORD,
Mr. SIMON, Mr. CRANSTON, Mr. HARKIN, Mr. BIDEN, Ms. MIKULSKI, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. RIEGLE, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. CONRAD, Mr. LOTT, Mr. EXON, Mr. METZENBAUM,
Mr. LEVIN, Mr. KOHL, Mr. HEFLIN, Mr. JEFFORDS, Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. DIXON,
Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. PELL, Mr. HOLLINGS, Mr. REID, Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. BRYAN,
Mr. NUNN, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. INOUYE, Mr. KERREY, Mr. ROBB, Mr. FORD, Mr. GORE,
Mr. SHELBY, Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. MOYNIHAN, Mr. FOWLER, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BRADLEY,
Mr. KERRY, Mr. WIRTH, and Mr. BREAUX)  introduced the following bill; which
was read twice and referred to the Committee on Governmental Affairs
October 17 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported by Mr. GLENN, without amendment
A BILL
To amend title 5, United States Code, to restore to Federal civilian employees
their right to participate voluntarily, as private citizens, in the political
processes of the Nation, to protect such employees from improper political
solicitations, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
That this Act may be cited as the `Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1989'.
SEC. 2. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
  (a) Subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code, is amended
  to read as follows:
`SUBCHAPTER III--POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
`Sec. 7321. Political participation
  `It is the policy of the Congress that employees should be encouraged to
  exercise fully, freely, and without fear of penalty or reprisal, and to
  the extent not expressly prohibited by law, their right to participate or
  to refrain from participating in the political processes of the Nation.
`Sec. 7322. Definitions
  `For the purpose of this subchapter--
  `(1) `employee' means any individual, other than the President and the
  Vice President, employed or holding office in--
  `(A) an Executive agency other than the General Accounting Office; or
  `(B) a position within the competitive service which is not in an Executive
  agency;
but does not include a member of the uniformed services;
  `(2) `partisan political office' means any office for which any candidate
  is nominated or elected as representing a party any of whose candidates
  for Presidential elector received votes in the last preceding election at
  which Presidential electors were selected, but shall exclude any office
  or position within a political party or affiliated organization; and
  `(3) `political contribution'--
  `(A) means any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or
  anything of value, made for any political purpose;
  `(B) includes any contract, promise, or agreement, express or implied,
  whether or not legally enforceable, to make a contribution for any
  political purpose;
  `(C) includes any payment by any person, other than a candidate or
  a political party or affiliated organization, of compensation for the
  personal services of another person which are rendered to any candidate or
  political party or affiliated organization without charge for any political
  purpose; and
  `(D) includes the provision of personal services for any political purpose.
`Sec. 7323. Political activity authorized; prohibitions
  `An employee may take an active part in political management or in political
  campaigns, except an employee may not--
  `(1) use his official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering
  with or affecting the result of an election;
  `(2) knowingly solicit, accept, or receive a political contribution from
  any person, unless such person is--
  `(A) a member of the same Federal employee organization; and
  `(B) the solicitation is for a contribution to the multicandidate political
  committee (as defined under section 315(a)(4) of the Federal Election
  Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(4))) of such Federal employee
  organization; or
  `(3) run for the nomination or as a candidate for election to a partisan
  political office.
`Sec. 7324. Political activities on duty; prohibition
  `(a) An employee may not engage in political activity--
  `(1) while the employee is on duty;
  `(2) in any room or building occupied in the discharge of official duties
  by an individual employed or holding office in the Government of the United
  States or any agency or instrumentality thereof;
  `(3) while wearing a uniform or official insignia identifying the office
  or position of the employee; or
  `(4) using any vehicle owned or leased by the Government of the United
  States or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
  `(b)(1) An employee described in paragraph (2) of this subsection may engage
  in political activity otherwise prohibited by subsection (a) if the costs
  associated with that political activity are not paid for by money derived
  from the Treasury of the United States.
  `(2) Paragraph (1) applies to an employee--
  `(A) the duties and responsibilities of whose position continue outside
  normal duty hours and while away from the normal duty post; and
  `(B) who is--
  `(i) an employee paid from an appropriation for the Executive Office of
  the President; or
  `(ii) an employee appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
  consent of the Senate, whose position is located within the United States,
  who determines policies to be pursued by the United States in relations
  with foreign powers or in the nationwide administration of Federal laws.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 3302(2) of title 5,
  United States Code, is amended by striking out `7203, 7321, and 7322'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `and 7203'.
  (2) The table of sections for subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5,
  United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `SUBCHAPTER III--POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
 `7321. Political participation.
 `7322. Definitions.
 `7323. Political activity authorized; prohibitions.
 `7324. Political activities on duty; prohibition.'.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 18.
  (a) Section 602 of title 18, United States Code, relating to solicitation
  of political contributions, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' before `It';
  (2) in paragraph (4) by striking out all that follows `Treasury of
  the United States' and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and `to
  knowingly solicit any contribution within the meaning of section 301(8)
  of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 from any other such officer,
  employee, or person. Any person who violates this section shall be fined
  under this title or imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any activity of
  an employee (as defined in section 7322(1) of title 5) or any individual
  employed in or under the United States Postal Service or the Postal Rate
  Commission, unless that activity is prohibited by section 7323 or 7324 of
  such title.'.
  (b) Section 603 of title 18, United States Code, relating to making
  political contributions, is amended by adding at the end thereof the
  following new subsection:
  `(c) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any activity of
  an employee (as defined in section 7322(1) of title 5) or any individual
  employed in or under the United States Postal Service or the Postal Rate
  Commission, unless that activity is prohibited by section 7323 or 7324 of
  such title.'.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT OF 1965.
  Section 6 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 1973d) is amended by
  striking out `the provisions of section 9 of the Act of August 2, 1939,
  as amended (5 U.S.C. 118i), prohibiting partisan political activity' and
  by inserting in lieu thereof `the provisions of subchapter III of chapter
  73 of title 5, United States Code, relating to political activities'.
SEC. 5. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO APPLICATION OF CHAPTER 15 OF TITLE 5, UNITED
STATES CODE.
  (a) Section 1501(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  `, the District of Columbia,' after `State'.
  (b) Section 675(e) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42
  U.S.C. 9904(e)) is repealed.
SEC. 6. APPLICABILITY TO POSTAL EMPLOYEES.
  The amendments made by this Act, and any regulations thereunder, shall
  apply with respect to employees of the United States Postal Service and
  the Postal Rate Commission, pursuant to sections 410(b) and 3604(e) of
  title 39, United States Code.
SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  (a) The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 120 days after the
  date of the enactment of this Act, except that the authority to prescribe
  regulations granted under section 7327 of title 5, United States Code
  (as added by section 2 of this Act), shall take effect on the date of the
  enactment of this Act.
  (b) Any repeal or amendment made by this Act of any provision of law shall
  not release or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred
  under that provision, and that provision shall be treated as remaining in
  force for the purpose of sustaining any proper proceeding or action for
  the enforcement of that penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
  (c) No provision of this Act shall affect any proceedings with respect
  to which the charges were filed on or before the effective date of the
  amendments made by this Act. Orders shall be issued in such proceedings
  and appeals shall be taken therefrom as if this Act had not been enacted.