S 1726 HDS
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1726
To repeal medicare catastrophic coverage provisions effective in years after
1989 and the supplemental medicare premium, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 4 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Mr. MCCAIN (for himself, Mr. GRAMM, Mr. BOSCHWITZ, Mr. COATS, Mr. COCHRAN,
Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. HELMS, Mrs. KASSEBAUM, Mr. MCCLURE, Mr. PRESSLER,
Mr. SIMON, Mr. THURMOND, Mr. WARNER, Mr. WILSON, Mr. GORTON, Mr. GARN,
Mr. HATCH, Mr. LOTT, Mr. KASTEN, Mr. MACK, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. MURKOWSKI,
Mr. NICKLES, Mr. BOND, Mr. BURNS, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. RUDMAN,
Mr. SYMMS, Mr. WALLOP, Mr. LUGAR, Mr. SPECTER, and Mr. STEVENS) introduced
the following bill; which was read twice and ordered held at the desk
A BILL
To repeal medicare catastrophic coverage provisions effective in years after
1989 and the supplemental medicare premium, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REPEAL OF MEDICARE CATASTROPHIC COVERAGE PROVISIONS EFFECTIVE IN
YEARS AFTER 1989 AND SUPPLEMENTAL MEDICARE PREMIUM.
  (a) GENERAL REPEAL-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The following provisions of the Medicare Catastrophic
  Coverage Act of 1988, as amended by the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue
  Act of 1988, are hereby repealed, and the Social Security Act shall be
  applied and administered as if such provisions (and the amendments made
  by such provisions) had not been enacted:
  (A) Section 201.
  (B) Subsections (i), (j), and (k) of section 202.
  (C) Section 211(c)(3).
  (D) Section 212 (other than subsection (b)(2)).
  (E) Section 213.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The repeals made by this subsection shall take effect
  as if included in the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988.
  (b) SUPPLEMENTAL MEDICARE PREMIUM REPEAL-
  (1) GENERAL REPEAL- Section 111 of the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act
  of 1988, as amended by the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988,
  is hereby repealed, and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be applied
  and administered as if such provisions (and the amendments made by such
  provisions) had not been enacted:
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO TRUST FUNDS-
  (A) FEDERAL HOSPITAL INSURANCE CATASTROPHIC COVERAGE RESERVE FUND- Section
  1817A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i-1a) is amended by adding
  at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(d) On November 1, 1989, the Secretary shall transfer any amount remaining
  in the Trust Fund (including interest) to the general fund.'.
  (B) SMI TRUST FUND- Section 1841(a) of the Social Security Act (42
  U.S.C. 1395t(a)) is amended by striking `which are attributable to the
  catastrophic coverage rate and which are not otherwise appropriated under
  section 1817A(a)(2) to the Federal Hospital Insurance Catastrophic Coverage
  Reserve Fund'.
  (3) EFFECTIVE DATES- The repeal and amendments made by this subsection shall
  take effect as if included in the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988.
  (c) MODIFICATION OF EXTENDED CARE SERVICES-
  (1) DURATION OF EXTENDED CARE SERVICES REDUCED TO 100 DAYS PER YEAR- Section
  1812 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395d) is amended by striking
  `150 days' in subsections (a)(2) and (b)(1) and inserting `100 days'.
  (2) POST-HOSPITALIZATION REQUIREMENT REINSTATED-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Section 1812 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395d)
  is amended--
  (i) in subsection (a)(2), as amended by paragraph (1), by striking `extended
  care services for up to 100 days during any calendar year' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `(A) post-hospital extended care services for up to 100 days,
  and (B), to the extent provided in subsection (f), extended care services
  that are not post-hospital extended care services';
  (ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting `post-hospital' before `extended
  care';
  (iii) in subsection (e), by inserting `post-hospital' before `extended
  care'; and
  (iv) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(f)(1) The Secretary shall provide for coverage under clause (B) of
  subsection (a)(2) of this section, of extended care services which are
  not post-hospital extended care services at such time and for so long as
  the Secretary determines, under such terms and conditions (described in
  paragraph (2)) as the Secretary finds appropriate, that the inclusion of
  such services will not result in any increase in the total of payments
  made under this subchapter and will not alter the acute care nature of
  the benefit described in subsection (a)(2) of this subsection.
  `(2) The Secretary shall provide--
  `(A) for such limitations on the scope and extent of such services described
  in subsection (a)(2)(B) of this section, and on the categories of individuals
  who may be eligible to receive such services, and
  `(B) notwithstanding sections 1814, 1861(v), and 1886 of this title for
  such restrictions and alternatives on the amount and methods of payment
  described in such subsection,
as may be necessary to carry out paragraph (1).
  `(g) For a definition of `post-hospital extended care services' and
  definitions of other terms used in this part, see section 1861 of this
  title.'.
  (B) MISCELLANEOUS AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
  (i) Section 1811 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395c) is amended by inserting
  `post-hospital' before `extended care'.
  (ii) Paragraphs (2)(B) and (6) of section 1814(a) of such Act (42
  U.S.C. 1395f(a)) are each amended by inserting `post-hospital' before
  `extended care' each place it appears.
  (iii) Section 1861(e) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(e)) is amended--
  (I) in the matter before paragraph (1), by inserting `and, subsection (i)
  of this subsection,' after `and paragraph (7) of this subsection';
  (II) in the second sentence, by inserting `, and subsection (i) of this
  section' after `and section 1814(f)(2)';
  (III) in the fourth sentence, by inserting `except for purposes of subsection
  (a)(2)' after `, such term shall not'; and
  (IV) by inserting after the first sentence the following new sentence:
  `For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of this section, such term includes any
  institution which meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this section.'.
  (iv) Section 1861 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x) is amended by inserting
  after subsection (h) the following new subsection:
  `(i) The term `post-hospital extended care services' means extended care
  services furnished an individual after transfer from a hospital in which
  such individual was an inpatient for not less than 3 consecutive days
  before his discharge from the hospital in connection with such transfer. For
  purposes of the preceding sentences, items and services shall be deemed to
  have been furnished to an individual after transfer from a hospital, and
  such individual shall be deemed to have been an inpatient in the hospital
  immediately before transfer therefrom, if such individual is admitted to
  the skilled nursing facility--
  `(A) within 30 days after discharge from such hospital, or
  `(B) within such time as it would be medically appropriate to begin an
  active course of treatment, in the case of an individual whose condition
  is such that skilled nursing care would not be medically appropriate within
  30 days after discharge from a hospital;
and an individual shall be deemed not to have been discharged from a skilled
nursing facility if, within 30 days after discharge therefrom, such individual
is admitted to such facility or any other skilled nursing facility.'.
  (v) Subsections (v)(1)(G)(i), (v)(2)(A), and (v)(3) of section 1861 of
  such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x) are each amended by inserting `post-hospital'
  before `extended care' each place it appears.
  (vi) Section 1861(y) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(y)) is amended--
  (I) by inserting `Post-Hospital' before `Extended Care' in the heading and by
  inserting `post-hospital' before `extended care' each place it appears, and
  (II) in paragraph (1), by inserting `(except for purposes of subsection
  (a)(2))' after `Boston, Massachusetts, but only'.
  (vii) Section 1866(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc(d)) is amended by
  inserting `post-hospital' before `extended care'.
  (viii) Subsections (d)(1) and (f) of section 1883 of such Act (42
  U.S.C. 1395tt) are amended by inserting `post-hospital' before `extended
  care' each place it appears.
  (3) COINSURANCE MODIFIED-
  (A) AMOUNT- Paragraph (3) of section 1813(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395e(a))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(3) The amount payable for post-hospital extended care services furnished
  an individual shall be reduced by a coinsurance amount equal to one-eighth
  of the inpatient hospital deductible for each day (before the 101st day)
  on which he is furnished such services after such services have been
  furnished to him for 20 days.
  (4) USE OF EXCESS PREMIUM REVENUES- Notwithstanding any other provision
  of law, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall use any excess
  revenues resulting from the amendments made by this section to--
  (A) first, reimburse the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for any
  costs resulting from the provision of extended care services to individuals
  admitted before November 1, 1989, and
  (B) second, to further reduce premiums imposed under section 1839 of the
  Social Security Act.
  (5) STUDY- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the Secretary's
  delegate, shall study the reasons for the unexpected increase in cost
  estimates of the extended care services benefit under title XVIII of
  the Social Security Act. The Secretary shall report to the Congress
  no later than February 1, 1990 the results of the study, including any
  recommendations for further modifications to such benefit appropriate
  during the consideration of the provision of long-term care benefits.
  (6) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this subsection shall apply to
  admissions occurring after October 31, 1989, and shall apply to care and
  services furnished on or after such date.
  (d) LIMITATION OF DRUG BENEFITS TO IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS AND HOME IV DRUGS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subparagraph (B) of section 1861(t)(3) of the Social
  Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(t)(3)) is amended by striking `in 1990'
  and inserting `in years after 1989'.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by this subsection shall take effect
  as if included in the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988.
  (e) ADJUSTMENT IN MEDICARE PART B PREMIUM-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 1839(a) of the Social Security Act (42
  U.S.C. 1395r(a)) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (1) by striking all after `(a)(1)' and inserting the
  following: `(A) The Secretary shall, during September of 1989 and of each
  year thereafter, determine the monthly actuarial basic rate and the monthly
  actuarial catastrophic illness rate for enrollees age 65 and over which
  shall be applicable for the succeeding calendar year.
  `(B) The monthly actuarial basic rate determined under this paragraph for a
  calendar year shall be the amount the Secretary estimates to be necessary
  so that the aggregate amount for the calendar year with respect to those
  enrollees age 65 and over will equal one-half of the total of the benefits
  and administrative costs which he estimates will be payable from the Federal
  Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for services performed and
  related administrative costs incurred in such calendar year with respect
  to such enrollees (excluding benefits payable under section 1833(c)).
  `(C) The monthly actuarial catastrophic illness rate determined under this
  paragraph for a calendar year shall be equal to the sum of--
  `(i) the amount the Secretary estimates to be necessary so that the
  aggregate amount for the calendar year with respect to those enrollees
  age 65 and over will equal the total of the benefits and administrative
  costs which he estimates will be payable from--
  `(I) the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for services
  performed and related administrative services costs incurred in such
  calendar year with respect to such enrollees under section 1833(c), and
  `(II) the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, which are attributable
  to the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988, as amended, and
  `(ii) the amount (if any) that the Secretary estimates to be necessary to
  offset any amount--
  `(I) by which the monthly premiums otherwise payable under this section with
  respect to such enrollees for such calendar year (disregarding subsections
  (b) and (f)) are reduced by reason of the limitation imposed by subsection
  (f), and
  `(II) that are attributable (as determined by the Secretary) to the portion
  of such monthly premiums that is determined under paragraph (3)(A).
  `(D) In calculating the monthly actuarial rates under this paragraph,
  the Secretary shall include appropriate amounts for a contingency margin.',
  (B) in paragraph (2) by striking `1983' and inserting `1989',
  (C) in paragraph (3)--
  (i) by striking `1983' in the first sentence and inserting `1989',
  (ii) by striking the second sentence and inserting the following: `The
  monthly premium shall (except as otherwise provided in subsection (e))
  be equal to the sum of--
  `(A) a weighted average of the monthly actuarial catastrophic illness
  rate for enrollees age 65 and over, determined under paragraph (1) of this
  subsection, and that rate for disabled enrollees under age 65, determined
  under paragraph (4) of this subsection, for that calendar year, and
  `(B) the smaller of--
  `(i) the monthly actuarial basic rate for enrollees age 65 and over,
  determined according to paragraph (1) of this subsection, for that calendar
  year, or
  `(ii) the monthly payment rate most recently promulgated by the Secretary
  under this paragraph, increased by a percentage determined as follows:
  The Secretary shall ascertain the primary insurance amount computed under
  section 215(a)(1), based upon average indexed monthly earnings of $900,
  that applied to individuals who became eligible for and entitled to
  old-age insurance benefits on November 1 of the year before the year of
  the promulgation. He shall increase the monthly premium rate by the same
  percentage by which that primary insurance amount is increased when, by
  reason of the law in effect at the time the promulgation is made, it is
  so computed to apply to those individuals for the following November 1.', and
  (iii) by striking `amount of an adequate actuarial rate for enrollees age 65
  and over as provided in paragraph (1)' in the third sentence and inserting
  `amounts of adequate actuarial rates for enrollees as provided in paragraphs
  (1) and (4)', and
  (D) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
  `(4)(A) The Secretary shall also, during September of 1989 and of each year
  thereafter, determine the monthly actuarial basic rate and the monthly
  actuarial catastrophic illness rate for disabled enrollees under age 65
  which shall be applicable for the succeeding calendar year.
  `(B) The monthly actuarial basic rate determined under this paragraph for
  a calendar year shall be the amount the Secretary estimates to be necessary
  so that the aggregate amount for the calendar year with respect to disabled
  enrollees under age 65 will equal one-half of the total of the benefits and
  administrative costs which he estimates will be payable from the Federal
  Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for services performed and
  related administrative costs incurred in such calendar year with respect
  to such enrollees (excluding benefits payable under section 1833(c)).
  `(C) The monthly actuarial catastrophic illness rate determined under this
  paragraph for a calendar year shall be equal to the sum of--
  `(i) the amount the Secretary estimates to be necessary so that the aggregate
  amount for the calendar year with respect to disabled enrollees under age
  65 will equal the total of the benefits and administrative costs which he
  estimates will be payable from--
  `(I) the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for services
  performed and related administrative services costs incurred in such
  calendar year with respect to such enrollees under section 1833(c), and
  `(II) the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, which are attributable
  to the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988, as amended, and
  `(ii) the amount (if any) that the Secretary estimates to be necessary to
  offset any amounts--
  `(I) by which the monthly premiums otherwise payable under this section with
  respect to such enrollees for such calendar year (disregarding subsections
  (b) and (f)) are reduced by reason of the limitation imposed by subsection
  (f), and
  `(II) that are attributable to the portion of such monthly premiums that
  is determined under paragraph (3)(A) (as determined by the Secretary).
  `(D) In calculating the monthly actuarial rates under this paragraph,
  the Secretary shall include appropriate amounts for a contingency margin.'.
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
  (A) Section 1839 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395r) is amended--
  (i) by striking `the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Account) in the last
  sentence of subsections (a)(1) and (a)(4) and inserting `the amendments
  made by the Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988',
  (ii) by striking `(b), (e), and (g)' in subsection (a)(2) and inserting
  `(b) and (e)',
  (iii) by striking `subsections (f) and (g)(6)' in subsection (b) and
  inserting `subsection (f)',
  (iv) by striking `monthly premium' in subsection (e)(1) and inserting
  `portion of the monthly premium otherwise determined under subsection
  (a)(3)(B)',
  (v) by inserting `basic' in subsection (e)(1) after `actuarial', and
  (vi) by striking subsection (g).
  (B) Section 1840 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395s) is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(i) Notwithstanding the previous provisions of this subsection, premiums
  collected under this part which are attributable to the monthly actuarial
  catastrophic illness rate established under subsections (a)(1)(C)(i)(II)
  and (a)(4)(C)(i)(II) of section 1839 shall, instead of being transferred
  to (or being deposited to the credit of) the Federal Supplemental Medical
  Insurance Trust Fund, be transferred to (or deposited to the credit of)
  the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund.'.
  (C) Subsection (a) of section 1844 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w) is amended
  by striking the last sentence.
  (D) Subsections (a)(1)(A)(i) and (a)(1)(B)(i) of section 1844 of such Act
  (42 U.S.C. 1395w) are each amended by striking `twice the dollar amount
  of the actuarially adequate rate' and inserting `the sum of the dollar
  amount of the actuarially adequate catastrophic illness rate and twice
  the dollar amount of the actuarially adequate basic rate'.
  (E) Section 1876(a)(5) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395mm(a)(5)) is amended--
  (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking `200 percent
  of', and
  (ii) in subparagraphs (A)(ii) and (B)(ii), by striking `monthly actuarial
  rate' and inserting `the sum of the monthly actuarial catastrophic illness
  rate and twice the monthly actuarial basic rate'.
  (3) EFFECTIVE DATES-
  (A) The amendments made by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall apply
  to monthly premiums for months beginning after October 1989.
  (B) The amendments made by paragraph (2) of this subsection shall take
  effect on or after November 1, 1989.
  (f) REVISION OF MEDIGAP REGULATIONS- (1) Section 1882 of the Social
  Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ss), as amended by section 221(d) of the
  Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988, is amended--
  (A) in the third sentence of subsection (a) and in subsection (b)(1), by
  striking `subsection (k)(3)' and inserting `subsections (k)(3), (k)(4),
  and (m);
  (B) in subsection (k)--
  (i) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting `except as provided in subsection
  (m),' before `subsection (g)(2)(A)', and
  (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking `subsection (l)' and inserting
  `subsections (l), (m)'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(m) In the case of an insurer which had in effect, as of December 31, 1988,
  a medicare supplemental policy with respect to an individual, for which
  the individual terminated coverage as of January 1, 1989 (or the earliest
  renewal date thereafter), no medicare supplemental policy of the insurer
  shall be deemed to meet the standards in subsection (c) unless the insurer--
  `(1) provides written notice, by January 15, 1990, to the individual (at the
  most recent available address) of the offer described in paragraph (2), and
  `(2) offers to the individual, during the period beginning on January 1,
  1990, and ending on March 1, 1990, continuation of coverage under such
  a medicare supplemental policy (with coverage effective as of January 1,
  1990), under the terms respecting treatment of pre-existing conditions and
  group rating of premium which are at least favorable to the individual as
  such terms as existed with respect to the policy as of December 31, 1988.'.
  (2) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of Congress that States should
  respond, at the earliest practicable date after the date of enactment of
  this Act, to requests by insurers for review and approval of riders and
  premium adjustments for medicare supplemental policies in order to comply
  with the amendments made by paragraph (1).
  (3) ADJUSTMENT OF CONTRACTS WITH PREPAID HEALTH PLANS- Section 222 of the
  Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988 is amended by inserting `and
  before January 1, 1990,' after `December 31, 1988,' each place it appears.
  (4) NOTICE OF CHANGES- The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
  provide, in the notice of medicare benefits provided under section 1804 of
  the Social Security Act of 1990, for a description of the changes in benefits
  under title XVIII of such Act made by the amendments made by this section.
  (5) MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORRECTION- Section 221(g)(3) of Medicare
  Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988 is amended by striking `subsection (f)'
  and inserting `subsection (e)'.
  (6) EFFECTIVE DATE- The provisions of this subsection shall take effect
  January 1, 1990, except that the amendment made by paragraph (5) shall be
  effective as if included in the enactment of Medicare Catastrophic Coverage
  Act of 1988.