--S.1722--
S.1722
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To provide emergency unemployment compensation, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act
 of 1991'.
TITLE I--EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM
SEC. 101. FEDERAL-STATE AGREEMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Any State which desires to do so may enter into and
 participate in an agreement under this Act with the Secretary of Labor
 (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Secretary'). Any State which is
 a party to an agreement under this Act may, upon providing 30 days written
 notice to the Secretary, terminate such agreement.
 (b) PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENT- Any agreement under subsection (a) shall
 provide that the State agency of the State will make payments of emergency
 unemployment compensation--
 (1) to individuals who--
 (A) have exhausted all rights to regular compensation under the State law,
 (B) have no rights to compensation (including both regular compensation
 and extended compensation) with respect to a week under such law or any
 other State unemployment compensation law or to compensation under any
 other Federal law (and are not paid or entitled to be paid any additional
 compensation under any State or Federal law), and
 (C) are not receiving compensation with respect to such week under the
 unemployment compensation law of Canada, and
 (2) for any week of unemployment which begins in the individual's period
 of eligibility (as defined in section 106(2)).
 (c) EXHAUSTION OF BENEFITS- For purposes of subsection (b)(1)(A), an
 individual shall be deemed to have exhausted such individual's rights to
 regular compensation under a State law when--
 (1) no payments of regular compensation can be made under such law because
 such individual has received all regular compensation available to such
 individual based on employment or wages during such individual's  base
 period, or
 (2) such individual's rights to such compensation have been terminated by
 reason of the expiration of the benefit year with respect to which such
 rights existed.
 (d) WEEKLY BENEFIT AMOUNT- For purposes of any agreement under this Act--
 (1) the amount of emergency unemployment compensation which shall be payable
 to any individual for any week of total unemployment shall be equal to
 the amount of the regular compensation (including dependent's allowances)
 payable to such individual during such individual's  benefit year under
 the State law for a week of total unemployment,
 (2) the terms and conditions of the State law which apply to claims for
 extended compensation and to the payment thereof shall apply to claims for
 emergency unemployment compensation and the payment thereof, except where
 inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or with the regulations or
 operating instructions of the Secretary promulgated to carry out this Act, and
 (3) the maximum amount of emergency unemployment compensation payable to
 any individual for whom an account is established under section 102 shall
 not exceed the amount established in such account for such individual.
 (e) ELECTION- Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal law (and if
 State law permits), the Governor of a State in a 7-percent period or an
 8-percent period, as defined in section 102(c), is authorized to and may
 elect to trigger off an extended compensation period in order to provide
 payment of emergency unemployment compensation to individuals who have
 exhausted their rights to regular compensation under State law.
SEC. 102. EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION ACCOUNT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Any agreement under this Act shall provide that the State
 will establish, for each eligible individual who files an application for
 emergency unemployment compensation, an emergency unemployment compensation
 account with respect to such individual's benefit year.
 (b) AMOUNT IN ACCOUNT-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The amount established in an account under subsection (a)
 shall be equal to the lesser of--
 (A) 100 percent of the total amount of regular compensation (including
 dependents' allowances) payable to the individual with respect to the
 benefit year (as determined under the State law) on the basis of which the
 individual most recently received regular compensation, or
 (B) the applicable limit times the individual's average weekly benefit
 amount for the benefit year.
 (2)  APPLICABLE LIMIT- For purposes of this section--
 (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in this paragraph, the applicable limit
 shall be determined under the following table:
 In the case of weeks beginning
--The applicable
  during a:
--limit is:
 8-percent period
--20
 7-percent period
--13
 6-percent period or other period
--7.
 (B) APPLICABLE LIMIT NOT REDUCED- An individual's applicable limit for any
 week shall in no event be less than the highest applicable limit in effect
 for any prior week for which emergency unemployment compensation was payable
 to the individual from the account involved.
 (C) INCREASE IN APPLICABLE LIMIT- If the applicable limit in effect for any
 week is higher than the applicable limit for any prior week, the applicable
 limit shall be the higher applicable limit, reduced (but not below zero)
 by the number of prior weeks for which emergency unemployment compensation
 was paid to the individual from the account involved.
 (3) REDUCTION FOR EXTENDED BENEFITS- The amount in an account under paragraph
 (1) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the aggregate amount of extended
 compensation (if any) received by such individual relating to the same benefit
 year under the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970.
 (4) WEEKLY BENEFIT AMOUNT- For purposes of this subsection, an individual's
 weekly benefit amount for any week is the amount of regular compensation
 (including dependents' allowances) under the State law payable to such
 individual for such week for total unemployment.
 (c) DETERMINATION OF PERIODS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of this section, the terms `8-percent period',
 `7-percent period', `6-percent period', and `other period' mean, with
 respect to any State, the period which--
 (A) begins with the second Sunday of the month after the first month during
 which the applicable trigger for such period is on, and
 (B) ends with the Saturday immediately preceding the second Sunday of the
 month after the first month during which the applicable trigger for such
 period is off.
 (2) APPLICABLE TRIGGER- In the case of an 8-percent period, 7-percent period,
 6-percent period, or other period, as the case may be, the applicable
 trigger is on for any week with respect to any such period if the average
 rate of total unemployment in the State for the period consisting of the
 most recent 6-calendar month period for which data are published--
 (A) equals or exceeds 6 percent, and
 (B) falls within the applicable range (as defined in paragraph (3)).
Subparagraph (A) shall only apply in the case of an 8-percent period,
7-percent period, or 6-percent period.
 (3) APPLICABLE RANGE- For purposes of this subsection, the applicable range
 is as follows:
  In the case of a:
The applicable range is:
  8-percent period
A rate equal to or exceeding 8 percent.
  7-percent period
A rate equal to or exceeding 7 percent but less than 8 percent.
  6-percent period
A rate equal to or exceeding 6 percent but less than 7 percent.
  Other period
A rate less than 6 percent.
 (4) SPECIAL RULES FOR DETERMINING PERIODS-
 (A) MINIMUM PERIOD- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), if for any week
 beginning after October 5, 1991, an 8-percent period, 7-percent period,
 6-percent period, or other period, as the case may be, is triggered on with
 respect to such State, such period shall last for not less than 13 weeks.
 (B) EXCEPTION IF APPLICABLE RANGE INCREASES- If, but for subparagraph (A),
 another period with a higher applicable range would be in effect for such
 State, such other period shall take effect without regard to subparagraph (A).
 (5) NOTIFICATION BY SECRETARY- When a determination has been made that
 an 8-percent period, 7-percent period, 6-percent period, or other period
 is beginning or ending with respect to a State, the Secretary shall cause
 notice of such determination to be published in the Federal Register.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE-
 (1)  IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), no emergency
 unemployment compensation shall be payable to any individual under this
 Act for any week--
 (A) beginning before the later of--
 (i) October 6, 1991, or
 (ii) the first week following the week in which an agreement under this
 Act is entered into, or
 (B) beginning after July 4, 1992.
 (2) TRANSITION- In the case of an individual who is receiving emergency
 unemployment compensation for a week which includes July 4, 1992, such
 compensation shall continue to be payable to such individual in accordance
 with subsection (b) for any week beginning in a period of consecutive
 weeks for each of which the individual meets the eligibility requirements
 of this Act.
 (3) REACHBACK PROVISIONS-
 (A) IN GENERAL- If--
 (i) any individual exhausted such individual's rights to regular compensation
 (or extended compensation) under the State law after February 28, 1991, and
 before the first week following October 5, 1991 (or, if later, the first week
 following the week in which the agreement under this Act is entered into), and
 (ii) a period described in subsection (c)(2)(A) is in effect with respect
 to the State for the first week following October 5, 1991,
such individual shall be entitled to emergency unemployment compensation
under this Act in the same manner as if such individual's benefit year ended
no earlier than the last day of such following week.
 (B) SPECIAL RULE- A State not meeting the requirements of subparagraph
 (A)(ii) shall be treated as meeting such requirements if such State met
 them for the first week following August 31, 1991.
 (C) LIMITATION OF BENEFITS- In the case of an individual who has exhausted
 such individual's rights to both regular and extended compensation, any
 emergency unemployment compensation payable under subparagraph (A) or (B)
 shall be reduced in accordance with subsection (b)(3).
SEC. 103. PAYMENTS TO STATES HAVING AGREEMENTS FOR THE PAYMENT OF EMERGENCY
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
 (a) GENERAL RULE- There shall be paid to each State which has entered into
 an agreement under this Act an amount equal to 100 percent of the emergency
 unemployment compensation paid to individuals by the State pursuant to
 such agreement.
 (b) TREATMENT OF REIMBURSABLE COMPENSATION- No payment shall be made to
 any State under this section in respect of compensation to the extent the
 State is entitled to reimbursement in respect of such compensation under the
 provisions of any Federal law other than this Act or chapter 85 of title 5,
 United States Code. A State shall not be entitled to any reimbursement under
 such chapter 85 in respect of any compensation to the extent the State is
 entitled to reimbursement under this Act in respect of such compensation.
 (c) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT- Sums payable to any State by reason of such
 State having an agreement under this Act shall be payable, either in advance
 or by way of reimbursement (as may be determined by the Secretary), in such
 amounts as the Secretary estimates the State will be entitled to receive
 under this Act for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case
 may be, by any amount by which the Secretary finds that his estimates for
 any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should
 have been paid to the State. Such estimates may be made on the basis of
 such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the
 Secretary and the State agency of the State involved.
SEC. 104. FINANCING PROVISIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Funds in the extended unemployment compensation account (as
 established by section 905 of the Social Security Act) of the Unemployment
 Trust Fund shall be used for the making of payments to States having
 agreements entered into under this Act.
 (b) CERTIFICATION- The Secretary shall from time to time certify to the
 Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each State the sums payable to
 such State under this Act. The Secretary of the Treasury, prior to audit
 or settlement by the General Accounting Office, shall make payments to the
 State in accordance with such certification, by transfers from the extended
 unemployment compensation account (as established by section 905 of the Social
 Security Act) to the account of such State in the Unemployment Trust Fund.
 (c) ASSISTANCE TO STATES- There are hereby authorized to be appropriated
 without fiscal year limitation, such funds as may be necessary for purposes
 of assisting States (as provided in title III of the Social Security Act)
 in meeting the costs of administration of agreements under this Act.
SEC. 105. FRAUD AND OVERPAYMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- If an individual knowingly has made, or caused to be made by
 another, a false statement or representation of a material fact, or knowingly
 has failed, or caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as
 a result of such false statement or representation or of such nondisclosure
 such individual has received an amount of emergency unemployment compensation
 under this Act to which he was not entitled, such individual--
 (1) shall be ineligible for further emergency unemployment compensation
 under this Act in accordance with the provisions of the applicable State
 unemployment compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a claim
 for unemployment compensation, and
 (2) shall be subject to prosecution under section 1001 of title 18, United
 States Code.
 (b) REPAYMENT- In the case of individuals who have received amounts of
 emergency unemployment compensation under this Act to which they were not
 entitled, the State shall require such individuals to repay the amounts of
 such emergency unemployment compensation to the State agency, except that
 the State agency may waive such repayment if it determines that--
 (1) the payment of such emergency unemployment compensation was without
 fault on the part of any such individual, and
 (2) such repayment would be contrary to equity and good conscience.
 (c) RECOVERY BY STATE AGENCY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The State agency may recover the amount to be repaid, or any
 part thereof, by deductions from any emergency unemployment compensation
 payable to such individual under this Act or from any unemployment
 compensation payable to such individual under any Federal unemployment
 compensation law administered by the State agency or under any other Federal
 law administered by the State agency which provides for the payment of any
 assistance or allowance with respect to any week of unemployment, during
 the 3-year period after the date such individuals received the payment of
 the emergency unemployment compensation to which they were not entitled,
 except that no single deduction may exceed 50 percent of the weekly benefit
 amount from which such deduction is made.
 (2) OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING- No repayment shall be required, and no deduction
 shall be made, until a determination has been made, notice thereof and an
 opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the individual, and the
 determination has become final.
 (d) REVIEW- Any determination by a State agency under this section shall be
 subject to review in the same manner and to the same extent as determinations
 under the State unemployment compensation law, and only in that manner and
 to that extent.
SEC. 106. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this Act:
 (1) IN GENERAL- The terms `compensation', `regular compensation', `extended
 compensation', `additional compensation', `benefit year', `base period',
 `State', `State agency', `State law', and `week' have the meanings given
 such terms under section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment
 Compensation Act of 1970.
 (2) ELIGIBILITY PERIOD- An individual's eligibility period shall consist
 of the weeks in the individual's  benefit year which begin in an 8-percent
 period, 7-percent period, 6-percent period, or other period under this Act
 and, if the individual's benefit year ends on or after October 5, 1991,
 any weeks thereafter which begin in any such period. In no event shall an
 individual's period of eligibility include any weeks after the 39th week
 after the end of the benefit year for which the individual exhausted his
 rights to regular compensation or extended compensation.
 (3) RATE OF TOTAL UNEMPLOYMENT- The term `rate of total unemployment'
 means the average unadjusted total rate of unemployment (as determined by
 the Secretary) for a State for the period consisting of the most recent
 6-calendar-month period for which data are published.
TITLE II--DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM TO PROVIDE JOB SEARCH ASSISTANCE
SEC. 201. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM TO PROVIDE JOB SEARCH ASSISTANCE.
 (a) GENERAL RULE- The Secretary of Labor (hereafter in this title referred
 to as the `Secretary') shall carry out a demonstration program under this
 title for purposes of determining the feasibility of implementing job search
 assistance programs. To carry out such demonstration program, the Secretary
 shall enter into agreements with 3 States which--
 (1) apply to participate in such program, and
 (2) demonstrate to the Secretary that they are capable of implementing the
 provisions of an agreement under this section.
 (b) SELECTION OF STATES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In determining whether to enter into an agreement with a State
 under this section, the Secretary shall take into consideration at least--
 (A) the size, geography, and occupational and industrial composition of
 the State,
 (B) the adequacy of State resources to carry out a job search assistance
 program,
 (C) the range and extent of specialized services to be provided by the
 State to individuals covered by the agreement, and
 (D) the design of the evaluation to be applied by the State to the program.
 (2) REPLICATION OF PRIOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECT- At least 1 of the States
 selected by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall be a State which has
 operated a successful demonstration project with respect to job search
 assistance under a contract with the Department of Labor. The demonstration
 program under this title of any such State shall, at a minimum, replicate
 the project it operated under such contract in the same geographic areas.
 (c) PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENT- Any agreement entered into with a State under
 this section shall--
 (1) provide that the State will implement a job search assistance program
 during the 1-year period specified in such agreement,
 (2) provide that such implementation will begin not later than the date 1
 year after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 (3) contain such provisions as may be necessary to ensure an accurate
 evaluation of the effectiveness of a job search assistance program,
 including--
 (A) random selection of eligible individuals for participation in the
 program and for inclusion in a control group, and
 (B) collection of data on participants and members of a control group as
 of the close of the 1-year period and 2-year period after the operations
 of the program cease,
 (4) provide that not more than 5 percent of the claimants for unemployment
 compensation under the State law shall be selected as participants in the
 job search assistance program, and
 (5) contain such other provisions as the Secretary may require.
SEC. 202. JOB SEARCH ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
 (a) GENERAL RULE- For purposes of this title, a job search assistance
 program shall provide that--
 (1) eligible individuals who are selected to participate in the program shall
 be required to participate in a qualified intensive job search program after
 receiving compensation under such State law during any benefit year for at
 least 6 but not more than 10 weeks,
 (2) every individual required to participate in a job search program under
 paragraph (1) shall be entitled to receive an intensive job search program
 voucher, and
 (3) any individual who is required under paragraph (1) to participate in
 a qualified intensive job search program and who does not satisfactorily
 participate in such program shall be disqualified from receiving compensation
 under such State law for the period (of not more than 10 weeks) specified
 in the agreement under section 201.
 (b) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL- For purposes of this title--
 (1) IN GENERAL- The term `eligible individual' means any individual receiving
 compensation under the State law during any benefit year if, during the
 3-year period ending on the last day of the base period for such benefit
 year, such individual had at least 126 weeks of employment at wages of $30
 or more a week with such individual's last employer in such base period (or,
 if data with respect to weeks of employment with such last employer are not
 available, an equivalent amount of employment computed under regulations
 prescribed by the Secretary).
 (2) EXCEPTION- Such term shall not include any individual if--
 (A) such individual has a definite date for recall to his former employment,
 (B) such individual seeks employment through a union hall or similar
 arrangement, or
 (C) the State agency--
 (i) waives the requirements of subsection (a)(1) for good cause shown by
 such individual, or
 (ii) determines that such participation would not be appropriate for such
 individual.
 (c) QUALIFIED INTENSIVE JOB SEARCH PROGRAM- For purposes of this section,
 the term `qualified intensive job search program' means any intensive job
 search assistance program which--
 (1) is approved by the State agency,
 (2) is provided by an organization qualified to provide job search assistance
 programs under any other Federal law, and
 (3) includes--
 (A) all basic employment services, such as orientation, testing, a job-search
 workshop, and an individual assessment and counseling interview, and
 (B) additional services, such as ongoing contact with the program staff,
 followup assistance, resource centers, and job search materials and equipment.
 (d) INTENSIVE JOB SEARCH VOUCHER- For purposes of this section, the
 term `intensive job search voucher' means any voucher which entitles the
 organization (including the State employment service) providing the qualified
 intensive job search assistance program to a payment from the State agency
 equal to the lesser of--
 (1) the reasonable costs of providing such program, or
 (2) the average weekly benefit amount in the State.
SEC. 203. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 (a) FINANCING PROVISIONS-
 (1) PAYMENTS TO STATES- There shall be paid to each State which enters
 into an agreement under section 201 an amount equal to the lesser of the
 reasonable costs of operating the job search assistance program pursuant
 to such agreement or the State's average weekly benefit amount for each
 individual selected to participate in the job search assistance program
 operated by such State pursuant to such agreement. Funds in the extended
 unemployment compensation account (as established by section 905 of the
 Social Security Act) shall be used for purposes of making such payments.
 (2) PAYMENTS ON CALENDAR MONTH BASIS- There shall be paid to each State either
 in advance or by way of reimbursement, as may be determined by the Secretary,
 such sum as the Secretary estimates the State will be entitled to receive
 under this subsection for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the
 case may be, by any sum by which the Secretary finds that his estimates
 for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which
 should have been paid to the State. Such estimates may be made on the basis
 of such method as may be agreed upon by the Secretary and the State agency.
 (3) CERTIFICATION- The Secretary shall from time to time certify to the
 Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each State the sums payable to such
 State under this subsection. The Secretary of the Treasury, prior to audit
 or settlement by the General Accounting Office, shall make payment to the
 State in accordance with such certification, by transfers from the extended
 unemployment compensation account (as established by section 905 of the Social
 Security Act) to the account of such State in the Unemployment Trust Fund.
 (4) SPECIAL RULE- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts in the
 account of a State in the Unemployment Trust Fund may be used for purposes of
 making payments pursuant to intensive job search vouchers provided pursuant
 to an agreement under this title.
 (b) REPORTS TO CONGRESS-
 (1) INTERIM REPORTS- The Secretary shall submit 2 interim reports to the
 Congress on the effectiveness of the demonstration program carried out under
 this title. The 1st such report shall be submitted before the date 2 years
 after operations under the demonstration program commenced and the 2d such
 report shall be submitted before the date 4 years after such commencement.
 (2) FINAL REPORT- Not later than the date 5 years after the commencement
 referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit a final report to
 the Congress on the demonstration program carried out under this title. Such
 report shall include estimates of program impact, such as--
 (A) changes in duration of unemployment, earnings, and hours worked of
 participants,
 (B) changes in unemployment compensation outlays,
 (C) changes in unemployment taxes,
 (D) net effect on the Unemployment Trust Fund,
 (E) net effect on Federal unified budget deficit, and
 (F) net social benefits or costs of the program.
 (c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this title, the terms `compensation',
 `benefit year', `State', `State agency', `State law', `base period', and
 `week' have the respective meanings given such terms by section 106.
TITLE III--OTHER PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. PAYMENTS OF UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION TO FORMER MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES.
 (a) REPEAL OF CERTAIN LIMITATIONS- Subsection (c) of section 8521 of title 5,
 United States Code, is hereby repealed.
 (b) REDUCTION IN LENGTH OF REQUIRED ACTIVE DUTY BY RESERVES- Paragraph
 (1) of section 8521(a) of such title 5 is amended by striking `180 days'
 and inserting `90 days'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall apply to weeks
 of unemployment beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 302. ADVISORY COUNCIL ON UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
 Section 908 of the Social Security Act is amended to read as follows:
`ADVISORY COUNCIL ON UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
 `SEC. 908. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Not later than February 1, 1992, and every
 4th year thereafter, the Secretary of Labor shall establish an advisory
 council to be known as the Advisory Council on Unemployment Compensation
 (referred to in this section as the `Council').
 `(b) FUNCTION- It shall be the function of each Council to evaluate
 the unemployment compensation program, including the purpose, goals,
 countercyclical effectiveness, coverage, benefit adequacy, trust fund
 solvency, funding of State administrative costs, administrative efficiency,
 and any other aspects of the program and to make recommendations for
 improvement.
 `(c) MEMBERS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each Council shall consist of 11 members as follows:
 `(A) 5 members appointed by the President, to include representatives of
 business, labor, State government, and the public.
 `(B) 3 members appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate, in
 consultation with the Chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Finance.
 `(C) 3 members appointed by the Speaker of the House, in consultation with
 the Chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Ways and Means.
 `(2) QUALIFICATIONS- In appointing members under subparagraphs (B) and (C),
 the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House shall
 each appoint--
 `(A) 1 representative of the interests of business,
 `(B) 1 representative of the interests of labor, and
 `(C) 1 representative of the interests of State governments.
 `(3) VACANCIES- A vacancy in any Council shall be filled in the manner in
 which the original appointment was made.
 `(4) CHAIRMAN- The President shall appoint the Chairman.
 `(d) STAFF AND OTHER ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each council may engage any technical assistance (including
 actuarial services) required by the Council to carry out its functions
 under this section.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE FROM SECRETARY OF LABOR- The Secretary of Labor shall provide
 each Council with any staff, office facilities, and other assistance, and
 any data prepared by the Department of Labor, required by the Council to
 carry out its functions under this section.
 `(e) COMPENSATION- Each member of any Council--
 `(1) shall be entitled to receive compensation at the rate of pay for level V
 of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code,
 for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged
 in the actual performance of duties vested in the Council, and
 `(2) while engaged in the performance of such duties away from such member's
 home or regular place of business, shall be allowed travel expenses (including
 per diem in lieu of subsistence) as authorized by section 5703 of title 5,
 United States Code, for persons in the Government employed intermittently.
 `(f) REPORT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Not later than February 1 of the second year following the
 year in which any Council is required to be established under subsection
 (a), the Council shall submit to the President and the Congress a report
 setting forth the findings and recommendations of the Council as a result
 of its evaluation of the unemployment compensation program under this section.
 `(2) REPORT OF FIRST COUNCIL- The Council shall include in its February
 1, 1994, report findings and recommendations with respect to determining
 eligibility for extended unemployment benefits on the basis of unemployment
 statistics for regions, States, or subdivisions of States.'.
SEC. 303. REPORT ON METHOD OF ALLOCATING ADMINISTRATIVE FUNDS AMONG STATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Labor shall submit to the Congress, within
 the 12-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act,
 a comprehensive report setting forth a proposal for revising the method
 of allocating grants among the States under section 302 of the Social
 Security Act.
 (b) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS- The report required by subsection (a) shall
 include an analysis of--
 (1) the use of unemployment insurance workload levels as the primary factor
 in allocating grants among the States under section 302 of the Social
 Security Act,
 (2) ways to ensure that each State receive not less than a minimum grant
 amount for each fiscal year,
 (3) the use of nationally available objective data to determine the
 unemployment compensation administrative costs of each State, with
 consideration of legitimate cost differences among the States,
 (4) ways to simplify the method of allocating such grants among the States,
 (5) ways to eliminate the disincentives to productivity and efficiency
 which exist in the current method of allocating such grants among the States,
 (6) ways to promote innovation and cost-effective practices in the method
 of allocating such grants among the States, and
 (7) the effect of the proposal set forth in such report on the grant amounts
 allocated to each State.
 (c) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PERIOD- The Secretary of Labor may not revise the
 method in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act for allocating
 grants among the States under section 302 of the Social Security Act, until
 after the expiration of the 12-month period beginning on the date on which
 the report required by subsection (a) is submitted to the Congress.
SEC. 304. ASSISTANCE TO CERTAIN DISLOCATED WORKERS.
 For the purposes of determining the programs and activities to be funded
 under part B of title III of the Job Training Partnership Act in program
 years 1991 and 1992, the Secretary of Labor shall give special consideration
 to providing services to dislocated workers in the timber industry in the
 States of Washington and Oregon.
TITLE IV--BUDGET PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. TREATMENT UNDER PAY-AS-YOU-GO PROCEDURES.
 (a) DESIGNATION AS EMERGENCY- The provisions of (and amendments made by) this
 Act shall be treated as provisions designated as emergency requirements by
 the President and the Congress under section 252(e) of the Balanced Budget
 and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
 (b) NEW BUDGET AUTHORITY, ETC., NOT CONSIDERED- Any amount of new budget
 authority or outlays resulting from the provisions of (and amendments made
 by) this Act shall not be considered for any purpose under the Balanced
 Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 402. EXEMPTION OF EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FROM SEQUESTRATION.
 Payments under title I of this Act (relating to emergency unemployment
 compensation) shall be exempt from any order issued under part C of the
 Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.