Calendar No. 61
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 100
A BILL
To set forth United States policy toward Central America and to assist the
economic recovery and development of that region.
APRIL 18 (legislative day, APRIL 9), 1991
Reported without amendment
S 100 RS
Calendar No. 61
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 100
To set forth United States policy toward Central America and to assist the
economic recovery and development of that region.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 14 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1991
Mr. SANFORD (for himself, Mr. PELL, Mr. DODD, Mr. LUGAR, Mr. KERRY,
Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. WARNER, Mr. BIDEN, Mr. ROBB, Mr. MOYNIHAN,
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. HARKIN, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. ADAMS, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. DURENBERGER,
Mr. WIRTH, Mr. MURKOWSKI, Mr. KOHL, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. CRANSTON,
Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. HATFIELD, Mr. DOMENICI, Mr. SASSER, and Mr. SARBANES)
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations
APRIL 18 (legislative day, APRIL 9), 1991
Reported by Mr. PELL, without amendment
A BILL
To set forth United States policy toward Central America and to assist the
economic recovery and development of that region.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Central American Democracy and Development
  Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) The perpetuation of individual poverty, the lack of trade and economic
  opportunities, the shortage of capital for investment, the absence of
  adequate transportation and communication facilities, and inadequate
  educational and health care resources have persisted in Central America
  and have prevented the prosperous and peaceful development of that region.
  (2) Civil conflict and severe economic decline over the past decade have
  produced a severe crisis in Central America.
  (3) Violence has uprooted a full 15 percent of Central America's people,
  creating an urgent need for outside assistance in resettlement and
  relocation.
  (4) The roots of the crisis in Central America are primarily economic
  and social.
  (5) Economic prosperity and free and open societies are essential to
  peaceful relationships with neighboring countries.
  (6) Section 461 of chapter 6 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  (setting forth the statement of policy for the Central America Democracy,
  Peace, and Development Initiative) appropriately recognizes the essential
  linkage between democracy and development.
  (7) On September 10, 1988, the vice presidents of the five Central American
  countries (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua)
  approved an intraregional coordination mechanism to implement the United
  Nations Development Programme's Special Plan of Economic Cooperation for
  Central America.
  (8) The Esquipulas II, Tesoro Beach, Tela, San Isidro, and Montelimar
  Accords signed by the presidents of the 5 Central American countries
  endorsed democratic processes and institutions in each country and that
  conflicts should be resolved through dialogue, negotiation, and elections.
  (9) In the Declaration of Antigua, the five Central American presidents--
  (A) affirmed the recognition by the Esquipulas I and II Accords that--
  (i) lasting peace cannot be attained without development, and
  (ii) while generous support from the international community is required,
  responsibility for development in Central America belongs to the governments
  and to the people of the Central American countries;
  (B) directly reaffirmed that respect for human rights is the fundamental
  basis of democracy;
  (C) emphasized the importance of strengthening Central America's regional
  organizations, and the intention to increase cooperative efforts at economic
  integration of the countries of Central America; and
  (D) confirmed the need to establish a Central American mechanism to improve
  multilateral cooperation in assistance as correlated to the region's needs
  and to promote growth through regional initiatives.
  (10) The Declaration of Antigua proposed a Central American Economic
  Community to provide regional unity and strength in the international arena
  in order to promote the development of the entire region based on free
  market economies, with all citizens benefiting, and full participation in
  the world economy. The Declaration states that the success of the proposed
  Community will depend on the creativity of all elements of society, include
  the agricultural, financial, educational, labor, religious, cultural,
  and industrial communities, and grass-roots development organizations.
  (11) As recognized in the report of the International Commission on
  Central American Recovery and Development (a group led by citizens from
  the five Central American countries and assisted by citizens from twelve
  other countries), a plan for sustainable development in Central America
  requires concerted efforts on a regional basis to utilize, manage, and
  preserve more effectively the resources of the region.
  (12) The International Commission for Central American Recovery and
  Development recommended comprehensive policy prescriptions and actions
  to attain broad enhancement of the social institutions, public and private
  infrastructure, and financial and economic structures of the Central American
  countries, with the goals of peace, strengthened democratic institutions,
  sustainable development, and prosperity for the benefit of all the people
  of Central America.
  (13) United States interests in Central America are based on national
  security concerns, humanitarian concerns, cultural and ethnic ties,
  commercial relations, interest in promoting democratic ideals, and the
  desire for friendly, peaceful neighboring countries. Such interests will
  best be advanced by political and economic development in the region.
  (14) The increasing interest of the international donor community enhances
  the climate for implementing a comprehensive recovery and long-term economic
  development program necessary to achieve lasting peace in Central America.
  (15) Both the Declaration of Antigua and the report of the International
  Commission for Central American Recovery and Development state that economic
  restructuring programs must be formulated in a manner to ease the burdens
  of adjustment on the poorest segments of society.
SEC. 3. UNITED STATES POLICIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Congress accepts with confidence that the countries
  of Central America will successfully direct their own economic and
  human resources to build and maintain the political, social, and
  economic institutions necessary to achieve peace and prosperity for
  their people. Accordingly, it is the policy of the United States to
  encourage and support the Central American countries in the efforts
  to build democracy, restore peace, establish respect for human rights,
  expand economic opportunities through the achievement of sustained and
  sustainable development, and improve living conditions in the countries of
  Central America. It further is the policy of the United States to support
  and encourage dialogue as the proper means of resolving armed conflicts
  in Central America.
  (b) UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF AN INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM
  FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT- In order to build upon
  the programs established pursuant to the National Bipartisan Commission
  on Central America and to establish a Central American Recovery and
  Development Program, it is the policy of the United States, consistent
  with implementation of the Esquipulas, Tesoro Beach, Tela, San Isidro,
  and Montelimar Accords and the Antiqua Declaration, to assist in the
  implementation of recommendations of the International Commission on
  Central American Recovery and Development, including proposals--
  (1) to provide additional economic assistance to the countries of
  Central America to assist with relocation and resettlement of refugees
  and other displaced persons in the region, expand educational opportunity
  and access to health care, foster progress in respect for human rights,
  bolster democratic institutions, strengthen institutions of justice,
  conserve natural resources and protect the environment, and otherwise
  promote sustainable economic development;
  (2) to facilitate the ability of the economies of individual Central
  American countries to grow through the development of the infrastructure
  of those countries, expansion of exports, and strengthening of investment
  opportunities, goals which are enhanced by the Caribbean Basin Economic
  Recovery Expansion Act of 1990; and
  (3) to develop those initiatives in concert with the governments of Central
  America, Western Europe, Japan, Canada, and other democracies.
  (c) REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS- Consistent with the recommendations of
  the International Commission on Central American Recovery and Development,
  it is the policy of the United States to support, participate in, and
  contribute to the United Nations Development Programme for its Special
  Plan of Economic Cooperation for Central America, which is designed to--
  (1) reintegrate the displaced and refugee populations,
  (2) create employment opportunities, and
  (3) establish a system to ensure adequate food supplies and health facilities
  for the poor.
  (d) Multilateral and Regional Cooperation-
  (1) MULTILATERAL COOPERATION- It is the policy of the United States
  to encourage and secure greater international cooperation and support
  for implementing the recommendations of the International Commission on
  Central American Recovery and Development. In carrying out this policy,
  the President should exert continued leadership in multilateral and
  regional forums and at economic summits to further multidonor responses
  to the pressing development needs in Central America.
  (2) PARTNERSHIP FOR DEMOCRACY AND DEVELOPMENT- It further is the policy of
  the United States to help organize a partnership among donor countries and
  the Central American countries to provide a coordinated, organized means
  of mobilizing resources and promoting a forum for dialogue about issues
  of development, democracy, social justice, and human rights.
  (3) REGIONAL COOPERATION- If requested by the governments of Central
  America, the United States, in an effort to support full participation in a
  partnership for democracy and development, shall provide appropriate support
  and assistance for the development of a coordination mechanism for Central
  America which includes participation of governments and nongovernmental
  organizations. Such mechanism has been designated as the Central American
  Development Coordination Commission (CADCC) by the International Commission
  on Central American Recovery and Development.
  (e) ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE- It is the policy of the United
  States to support and promote the President's proposed Enterprise for
  the Americas Initiative to assist Central American countries in opening
  their economies and managing their foreign debt, which is a major factor
  in preventing economic renewal.