Calendar No. 485
101st CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 137
[Report No. 101-253]
A BILL
To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for a voluntary
system of spending limits and partial public financing of Senate general
election campaigns, to limit contributions by multicandidate political
committees, and for other purposes.
March 21 (legislative day, JANUARY 23), 1990
Reported with amendments
S 137 RS
Calendar No. 485
101st CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 137
[Report No. 101-253]
To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for a voluntary
system of spending limits and partial public financing of Senate general
election campaigns, to limit contributions by multicandidate political
committees, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 25 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. BOREN (for himself, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. BYRD, Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. MOYNIHAN,
Mr. DODD, Mr. REID, Mr. DECONCINI, Mr. WIRTH, Mr. SIMON, Mr. FORD, Mr. ADAMS,
Mr. PRYOR, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. RIEGLE, Mr. PELL, Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. LIEBERMAN, Mr. EXON, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. CONRAD, and Mr. ROCKEFELLER)
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration
March 21 (legislative day, JANUARY 23), 1990
Reported by Mr. FORD, with amendments
[Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]
A BILL
To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for a voluntary
system of spending limits and partial public financing of Senate general
election campaigns, to limit contributions by multicandidate political
committees, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
  `Senatorial Election Campaign Act of 1989'.
  SEC. 2. The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (hereinafter referred
  to as `the Act') is amended by adding at the end the following new title:
`TITLE V--SPENDING LIMITS AND PUBLIC FINANCING FOR SENATE GENERAL ELECTION
CAMPAIGNS
`DEFINITIONS
  `SEC. 501. For purposes of this title--
  `(1) unless otherwise provided in this title the definitions set forth in
  section 301 of this Act apply to this title;
  `(2) the term `authorized committee' means, with respect to any candidate
  for election to the office of United States Senator, any political committee
  which is authorized in writing by such candidate to accept contributions
  or make expenditures on behalf of such candidate to further the election
  of such candidate;
  `(3) the term `candidate' means an individual who is seeking nomination
  for election, or election to the office of United States Senator and such
  individual shall be deemed to seek nomination for election, or election,
  if such individual meets the requirements of subparagraph (A) or (B)
  of section 301(2);
  `(4) the term `election cycle' means--
  `(A) in the case of a candidate or the authorized committee of a candidate,
  the term beginning on the day after the date of the last previous general
  election for such office or seat which such candidate seeks and ending on
  the date of the next election; or
  `(B) for all other persons, the term beginning on the first day following
  the date of the last general election and ending on the date of the next
  election;
  `(5) the term `eligible candidate' means a candidate who is eligible under
  section 502 to receive benefits under this title;
  `(6) the term `general election' means any election which will directly
  result in the election of a person to the office of United States Senator,
  but does not include an open primary election;
  `(7) the term `general election period' means the period beginning on the
  day after the date of the primary or runoff election, whichever is later,
  and ending on the date of such general election or the date on which the
  candidate withdraws from the campaign or otherwise ceases actively to seek
  election, whichever occurs first;
  `(8) the term `immediate family' means a candidate's spouse, and any
  child, stepchild, parent, grandparent, brother, half-brother, sister or
  half-sister of the candidate, and the spouse of any such person, and any
  child, stepchild, parent, grandparent, brother, half-brother, sister or
  half-sister of the candidate's spouse and the spouse of any such person;
  `(9) the term `major party' has the meaning given such term in section
  9002(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the Presidential Election
  Campaign Fund Act, provided that a candidate in a general election held by
  a State to elect a Senator subsequent to an open primary in which all the
  candidates for the office participated and which resulted in the candidate
  and at least one other candidate qualifying for the ballot in the general
  election, shall be treated as a candidate of a major party for purposes
  of this title;
  `(10) the term `primary election' means any election which may result in
  the selection of a candidate for the ballot of the general election;
  `(11) the term `primary election period' means the period beginning on
  the day following the date of the last Senate election for the same Senate
  office and ending on the date of the first primary election for such office
  following such last Senate election for such office, or the date on which
  the candidate withdraws from the election or otherwise ceases actively to
  seek election, whichever occurs first;
  `(12) the term `runoff election' means the election held after a primary
  election, and prescribed by applicable State law as the means for deciding
  which candidate(s) should be certified as nominee(s) for the Federal
  office sought;
  `(13) the term `runoff election period' means the period beginning on the
  day following the date of the last primary election for such office and
  ending on the date of the runoff election for such office;
  `(14) the term `Senate Fund' means the Senate Election Campaign Fund
  maintained pursuant to section 506 by the Secretary of the Treasury in the
  Presidential Campaign Fund established by section 9006(a) of the Internal
  Revenue Code of 1986; and
  `(15) the term `voting age population' means the resident population,
  18 years of age or older, as certified pursuant to section 315(e).
`ELIGIBILITY TO RECEIVE BENEFITS
  `SEC. 502. (a) To be eligible to receive benefits under this title, in
  addition to the requirements of subsection (d), a candidate shall, within 7
  days after qualifying for the general election ballot under the law of the
  State involved or, if such candidate is a candidate in a State which has a
  primary election to qualify for such ballot after September 1, within 7 days
  after the date such candidate wins in such primary, whichever occurs first--
  `(1) certify to the Commission under penalty of perjury that during the
  period beginning on January 1 of the calendar year preceding the year of
  the general election involved, or in the case of a special election for
  the office of United States Senator, during the period beginning on the
  day on which the vacancy occurs in that office, and ending on the day of
  such certification, such candidate and the authorized committees of such
  candidate have received contributions in an amount at least equal to 10
  cents multiplied by the voting age population of such State or $150,000,
  whichever is greater, up to an amount that does not exceed $650,000;
  `(2) certify to the Commission under penalty of perjury that all
  contributions received for purposes of paragraph (1) have come from
  individuals and that no contribution from such individual, when added to all
  contributions to or for the benefit of such candidate from such individual,
  was taken into account to the extent such amount exceeds $250;
  `(3) certify to the Commission under penalty of perjury that such candidate
  and the authorized committees of such candidate have not expended for the
  primary election, more than the amount equal to 67 percent of the general
  election spending limit applicable to such candidate pursuant to section
  503(b), or more than $2,750,000, whichever amount is less;
  `(4) certify to the Commission under penalty of perjury that such candidate
  and the authorized committees of such candidate have not expended for any
  runoff election, more than an amount equal to 20 percent of the general
  election spending limit applicable to such candidate pursuant to section
  503(b);
  `(5) certify to the Commission under penalty of perjury that 75 per centum
  of the aggregate amount of contributions received for purposes of paragraph
  (1) have come from individuals residing in such candidate's State;
  `(6) certify to the Commission under penalty of perjury that at least one
  other candidate has qualified for the same general election ballot under
  the law of the State involved;
  `(7) agree in writing that such candidate and the authorized committees
  of such candidate--
  `(A) have not made and will not make expenditures which exceed the
  limitations established in section 503, except as otherwise provided in
  this title;
  `(B) will not accept any contributions in violation of section 315;
  `(C) will not accept any contribution for the general election involved
  except to the extent that such contribution is necessary to defray
  expenditures for such election that in the aggregate do not exceed the
  amount of the limitation on expenditures established in section 503(b),
  unless otherwise provided in this Act;
  `(D) will deposit all payments received under this section in an account
  insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  [Struck out->] or the
  Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation  [<-Struck out] from which
  funds may be withdrawn by check or similar means of payment to third parties;
  `(E) will furnish campaign records, evidence of contributions and other
  appropriate information to the Commission; and
  `(F) will cooperate in the case of any audit and examination by the
  Commission under section 507; and
  `(8) notify the Commission of their intention to make use of the benefits
  provided for in section 504.
  `(b) For the purposes of subsection (a)(1) and paragraph (2)(B) of section
  504(a), in determining the amount of contributions received by a candidate
  and the candidate's authorized committees--
  `(1) no contribution other than a gift of money made by a written instrument
  which identifies the person making the contribution shall be taken into
  account;
  `(2) no contribution made through an intermediary or conduit referred to
  in section 315(a)(8) shall be taken into account;
  `(3) no contribution received from any person other than an individual shall
  be taken into account, and no contribution received from an individual
  shall be taken into account to the extent such contribution exceeds
  $250 when added to the total amount of all other contributions made by
  such individual to or for the benefit of such candidate beginning on the
  applicable date specified in paragraph (4) of this subsection; and
  `(4) no contribution received prior to January 1 of the calendar year
  preceding the year in which the general election involved or received after
  the date on which the general election involved is held shall be taken into
  account, and in the case of a special election, no contribution received
  prior to the date on which the vacancy occurs in that office or received
  after the date on which the general election involved is held shall be
  taken into account.
  `(c) The threshold amounts in subsection (a)(1) shall be increased at the
  beginning of each calendar year based on the increase in the price index as
  determined under section 315(c), except that for purposes of determining
  such increase, the term `base period', as used in such section shall mean
  the calendar year of the first election after the date of enactment of
  the Senatorial Election Campaign Act of  [Struck out->] 1987  [<-Struck
  out] 1989.
  `(d) In addition to the requirements of subsection (a), to be eligible
  to receive benefits under this title a candidate shall, on the day such
  candidate files as a candidate for the primary election--
  `(1) file with the Commission a declaration of whether or not--
  `(1) such candidate and the authorized committees of such candidate intend
  to make expenditures, for the primary election, more than an amount equal
  to 67 percent of the general election spending limit applicable to such
  candidate pursuant to section 503(b), or more than $2,750,000, whichever
  amount is less;
  `(2) such candidate and the authorized committees of such candidate intend
  to make expenditures, for any runoff election, more than an amount equal
  to 20 percent of the general election spending limit applicable to such
  candidate pursuant to section 503(b); and
  `(3) such candidate and the authorized committees of such candidate intend
  to make expenditures, for the general election, more than an amount equal
  to the general election spending limit applicable to such candidate pursuant
  to section 503(b).
`LIMITATIONS ON EXPENDITURES
  `SEC. 503. (a) No candidate who is entitled to a benefit in a general
  election under this title shall make expenditures from the personal funds
  of such candidate, or the funds of any member of the immediate family of
  such candidate, or incur personal loans in connection with such candidate's
  campaign for the Senate, aggregating in excess of $20,000, during the
  election cycle.
  `(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, no candidate who is
  entitled to a benefit for use in a general election under this title shall
  make expenditures for such general election which in the aggregate exceed
  $400,000, plus--
  `(A) in States having a voting age population of 4 million or less, 30
  cents multiplied by the voting age population; or
  `(B) in States having a voting age population over 4 million, 30 cents
  multiplied by 4 million, plus 25 cents multiplied by the voting age
  population over 4 million;
except that the amount of the limitation under this subsection, in the case
of any candidate, shall not be less than $950,000, nor more than $5,500,000.
  `(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1), in any State with
  no more than one transmitter for a commercial Very High Frequency (VHF)
  television station licensed to operate in that State, no candidate in such
  State who receives a benefit for use in a general election under this title
  shall make expenditures for such general election which in the aggregate
  exceed the higher of--
  `(A) $950,000; or
  `(B) $400,000 plus 45 cents multiplied by the voting age population of
  4 million or less, plus 40 cents multiplied by the voting age population
  over 4 million, up to an amount not exceeding $5,500,000.
  `(c) The limitations on expenditures in subsections (b), (d), and (e)
  shall be subject to the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of section 504.
  `(d) No candidate who is otherwise eligible to receive benefits for a general
  election under this title may receive any such benefits if such candidate
  spends for the primary election, more than the amount equal to 67 percent
  of the limitation on expenditures for the general election as determined
  under subsection (b), or more than $2,750,000, whichever amount is less.
  `(e) No candidate who is otherwise eligible to receive benefits for a
  general election under this title may receive any such benefits if such
  candidate spends for a runoff election, if any, more than an amount which
  in the aggregate exceeds 20 percent of the maximum amount of the limitation
  applicable to such candidate as determined under subsection (b).
  `(f)(1) For purposes of this section, the amounts set forth in subsections
  (b), (d), and (e) of this section shall be increased at the beginning of each
  calendar year based on the increase in the price index as determined under
  section 315(c), except that for purposes of determining such increase,
  the term `base period', as used in section 315(c), means the calendar
  year of the first election after the date of enactment of the Senatorial
  Election Campaign Act of 1989.
  `(2) The limitation set forth in subsection (b) shall not apply to
  expenditures by a candidate or a candidate's authorized committees from a
  compliance fund established to defray the costs of legal and accounting
  services provided solely to insure compliance with this Act; provided
  however that--
  `(A) such fund contains only contributions (including contributions received
  in excess of any amount necessary to defray qualified campaign expenditures
  pursuant to section 313) received in accordance with the limitations,
  prohibitions, and reporting requirements of this Act;
  `(B) the aggregate total amount of contributions to, and expenditures from,
  such fund do not exceed 10 percent of the limitation on expenditures for
  the general election as determined under subsection (b); and
  `(C) no transfers may be made from such fund to any other accounts of
  the candidate's authorized committees, except that the fund may receive
  transfers from such other accounts at any time.
In the event that, subsequent to any general election, a candidate determines
that the costs of necessary and continuing legal and accounting services
require contributions to and expenditures from the fund in excess of the
limitations of this paragraph, the candidate may petition the Commission for
a waiver of such limitations up to any additional amounts as the Commission
may authorize in connection with such waiver. Any waiver, or denial of a
waiver, by the Commission under this paragraph shall be subject to judicial
review under section 508. Any money remaining in such fund when the candidate
decides to terminate or dissolve such fund, shall be--
  `(i) contributed to the United States Treasury to reduce the budget
  deficit, or
  `(ii) transferred to a fund of a subsequent campaign of that candidate.
  `(g) If, during the primary and runoff period portion of the two-year
  election cycle preceding the candidate's general election, independent
  expenditures by any person or persons aggregating an amount in excess
  of $10,000 are made, or are obligated to be made, in opposition to a
  candidate or for the opponent of such candidate, the limitations provided
  in subsections (d) and (e), as they apply to such candidate, shall be
  increased for that primary or runoff election in an amount equal to the
  amount of such expenditures made during the period covered by such election.
`ENTITLEMENT OF ELIGIBLE CANDIDATES TO BENEFITS
  `SEC. 504. (a) Except as otherwise provided in section 506(c)--
  `(1) all eligible candidates shall be entitled to--
  `(A) the broadcast media rates provided under section 315(b)(3) of the
  Communications Act of 1934;
  `(B) mailing rates provided in section 3629 of title 39 of the United
  States Code; and
  `(C) payments under section 506 equal to the aggregate total amount of
  independent expenditures made or obligated to be made, in the general
  election involved, by any person in opposition to, or on behalf of an
  opponent of such eligible candidate, as such expenditures are reported
  by such person or determined by the Commission under subsection (f) of
  section 304;
  `(2) if any candidate in the same general election not eligible to receive
  funds under this title either raises aggregate contributions or makes or
  obligates to make aggregate expenditures for such election which exceed the
  amount of the limitation determined under section 503(b) for such election--
  `(A) an eligible candidate who is a major party candidate shall be entitled
  to receive a payment under section 506 in an amount equal to--
  `(i) two-thirds of the amount of the limitation determined under section
  503(b) with regard to such candidate when a candidate in the same election
  not eligible to receive funds under this title either raises aggregate
  contributions or makes or obligates to make aggregate expenditures for
  such election which exceed 100 percent of such limitation determined under
  section 503(b); and
  `(ii) one-third of the amount of the limitation determined under section
  503(b) with regard to such candidate when a candidate in the same election
  not eligible to receive funds under this title either raises aggregate
  contributions or makes or obligates to make aggregate expenditures for
  such election which exceed 133 1/3  percent of such limitation determined
  under section 503(b); or
  `(B) an eligible candidate who is not a major party candidate shall be
  entitled to matching payments under section 506, equal to the amount of
  each contribution received by such eligible candidate and the candidate's
  authorized committees, provided that in determining the amount of each
  such contribution--
  `(i) the provisions of section 502(b) shall apply; and
  `(ii) contributions required to be raised under section 502(a)(1) shall
  not be eligible to be matched; and
the total amount of payments to which a candidate is entitled under this
subparagraph shall not exceed 50 percent of the amount of the limitation
determined under section 503(b) applicable to such candidate.
  `(b) A candidate who receives payments under paragraph (1)(C) or (2) of
  subsection (a) may spend such funds to defray expenditures in the general
  election without regard to the provisions of section 503(b).
  `(c)(1) A candidate who receives benefits under this section may make
  expenditures for the general election without regard to the provisions of
  subparagraph (A) of section 502(a)(7) or subsection (a) or (b) of section
  503 if and when any candidate in the same general election not eligible to
  receive payments under this section either raises aggregate contributions or
  makes or obligates to make aggregate expenditures for such election which
  exceed the amount of 133 1/3  percent of the expenditure limit applicable
  to such candidate under section 503(b) for such election.
  `(2) A candidate who receives benefits under this section may receive
  contributions for the general election without regard to the provisions
  of subparagraph (C) of section 502(a)(7) if any major party candidate in
  the same general election is not eligible to receive benefits under this
  section, or if and when any other candidate in the same general election
  who is not eligible to receive benefits under this section raises aggregate
  contributions or makes or obligates to make aggregate expenditures for
  such election which exceed 75 percent of the amount of the expenditure
  limit applicable to such candidate under section 503(b) for such election.
  `(d) Benefits received by a candidate under this section shall be used
  to defray expenditures incurred with respect to the general election
  period for such candidate. Such benefits shall not be used (1) to make
  any payments, directly or indirectly, to such candidate or to any member
  of the immediate family of such candidate, (2) to make any expenditure
  other than expenditures to further the general election of such candidate,
  (3) to make any expenditures which constitute a violation of any law of
  the United States or of the State in which the expenditure is made, or (4)
  to repay any loan to any person except to the extent the proceeds of such
  loan were used to further the general election of such candidate.
`CERTIFICATION BY COMMISSION
  `SEC. 505. (a) No later than 48 hours after an eligible candidate files
  a request with the Commission to receive benefits under section 506 the
  Commission shall certify such eligibility to the Secretary of the Treasury
  for payment in full of the amount to which such candidate is entitled,
  unless the provisions of section 506(c) apply. The request referred to in
  the preceding sentence shall contain--
  `(1) such information and be made in accordance with such procedures,
  as the Commission may provide by regulation; and
  `(2) a verification signed by the candidate and the treasurer of the
  principal campaign committee of such candidate stating that the information
  furnished in support of the request, to the best of their knowledge,
  is correct and fully satisfies the requirements of this title.
  `(b) Certifications by the Commission under subsection (a) and all
  determinations made by the Commission under this title, shall be final
  and conclusive, except to the extent that they are subject to examination
  and audit by the Commission under section 507 and judicial review under
  section 508.
`ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND; PAYMENTS TO ELIGIBLE CANDIDATES
  `SEC. 506. (a)(1) The Secretary shall maintain in the Presidential Election
  Campaign Fund (hereafter referred to as the `Fund') established by section
  9006(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, in addition to any other
  accounts maintained under such section, a separate account to be known
  as the `Senate Fund'. The Secretary shall deposit into the Senate Fund,
  for use by candidates eligible to receive payments under this title, the
  amounts available after the Secretary determines that the amounts in the
  Fund, plus the amounts of revenue the Secretary projects will accrue to
  the Fund during the remainder of the period ending on December 31 of the
  year of the next Presidential election, equal 110 percent of the amount
  the Secretary projects will be necessary for payments under subtitle H of
  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 during such remainder of such period. The
  monies designated for the Senate Fund shall remain available without fiscal
  year limitation.
  `(2) On May 15 of each year following the year during which a regularly
  scheduled biennial Senate election has occurred, the Secretary shall
  determine the total amount in the Senate Fund, and evaluate if such amount,
  plus the amount of revenue it projects will accrue to the Senate Fund
  (based on the computation made by the Secretary with respect to the Fund,
  as provided in paragraph (1)) during the period beginning on such date and
  ending on December 31 of the year of the next regularly scheduled biennial
  election, exceeds 110 percent of the total estimated expenditures of the
  Senate Fund during such period. If the Secretary determines that an excess
  amount exists, the Secretary shall transfer such excess to the general
  fund of the Treasury of the United States.
  `(b) Upon receipt of a certification from the Commission under section
  505, the Secretary shall promptly pay to the candidate involved in
  the certification, out of the Senate Fund, the amount certified by the
  Commission.
  `(c)(1) If at the time of a certification by the Commission under section
  505 for payment to an eligible candidate, the Secretary determines that
  the monies in the Senate Fund are not, or may not be, sufficient to satisfy
  the full entitlement of all such eligible candidates, the Secretary shall
  withhold from such payment such amount as he determines to be necessary
  to assure that an eligible candidate will receive a pro rata share of
  such candidate's full entitlement. Amounts so withheld shall be paid when
  the Secretary determines that there are sufficient monies in the Senate
  Fund to pay such amounts, or portions thereof, to all eligible candidates
  from whom amounts have been withheld, but, if there are not sufficient
  monies in the Senate Fund to satisfy the full entitlement of an eligible
  candidate, the amounts so withheld shall be paid in such manner that each
  eligible candidate receives his or her pro rata share of his or her full
  entitlement. The Secretary shall notify the Commission and each eligible
  candidate by registered mail of the reduction in the amount to which that
  candidate is entitled under section 505.
  `(2) If the provisions of this subsection result in a reduction in the amount
  to which an eligible candidate is entitled under section 505 and payments
  have been made under this section in excess of the amount to which such
  candidate is entitled, such candidate is liable for repayment to the Fund
  of the excess under procedures the Commission shall prescribe by regulation.
`EXAMINATION AND AUDITS; REPAYMENTS
  `SEC. 507. (a)(1) After each general election, the Commission shall conduct
  an examination and audit of the campaign accounts of 10 per centum of the
  eligible candidates of each major party and 10 per centum of all other
  eligible candidates, as designated by the Commission through the use of
  an appropriate statistical method of random selection to determine, among
  other things, whether such candidates have complied with the expenditure
  limits and other conditions of eligibility and requirements of this title.
  `(2) After each special election, the Commission shall conduct an examination
  and audit of the campaign accounts of each eligible candidate in such
  election to determine whether such candidates have complied with the
  expenditure limits and other conditions of eligibility and requirements
  under this title.
  `(3) The Commission may conduct an examination and audit of the campaign
  accounts of any eligible candidate in a general election if the Commission,
  by an affirmative vote of four members, determines that there exists reason
  to believe that such candidate has violated any provision of this title.
  `(b) If the Commission determines that any portion of the payments made to a
  candidate under this title was in excess of the aggregate payments to which
  such candidate was entitled, the Commission shall so notify such candidate,
  and such candidate shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the excess.
  `(c) If the Commission determines that any amount of any benefit made to a
  candidate under this title was not used as provided for in this title, the
  Commission shall so notify such candidate and such candidate shall pay to the
  Secretary an amount equal to 200 per centum of the amount of such benefit.
  `(d) If the Commission determines that any candidate who has received
  benefits under this title has made expenditures which in the aggregate
  exceed by 5 per centum or less the limitation set forth in section 503(b),
  the Commission shall so notify such candidate and such candidate shall
  pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the amount of the excess expenditure.
  `(e) If the Commission determines that any candidate who has received
  benefits under this title has made expenditures which in the aggregate
  exceed by more than 5 per centum the limitation set forth in section
  503(b), the Commission shall so notify such candidate and such candidate
  shall pay the Secretary an amount equal to three times the amount of the
  excess expenditure.
  `(f) Any amount received by an eligible candidate under this title may
  be retained for a period not exceeding sixty days after the date of the
  general election for the liquidation of all obligations to pay general
  election campaign expenses incurred during this general election period. At
  the end of such sixty-day period any unexpended funds received under this
  title shall be promptly repaid to the Secretary.
  `(g) No notification shall be made by the Commission under this section with
  respect to an election more than three years after the date of such election.
  `(h) All payments received under this section shall be deposited in the
  Senate Fund.
`CRIMINAL PENALTIES
  `SEC. 507A. (a) No candidate shall knowingly or willfully accept benefits
  under this title in excess of the aggregate benefits to which such candidate
  is entitled or knowingly or willfully use such benefits for any purpose
  not provided for in this title or knowingly or willfully make expenditures
  from his personal funds, or the personal funds of his immediate family,
  in excess of the limitation provided in this title.
  `(b) Any person who violates the provisions of subsection (a) shall be fined
  not more than $25,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both. Any
  officer or member of any political committee who knowingly consents to
  any expenditure in violation of the provisions of subsection (a) shall be
  fined not more than $25,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(c)(1) It is unlawful for any person who receives any benefit under
  this title, or to whom any portion of any such benefit is transferred,
  knowingly and willfully to use, or authorize the use of, such benefit or
  such portion except as provided in section 504(d).
  `(2) Any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (1) shall be
  fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(d)(1) It is unlawful for any person knowingly and willfully--
  `(A) to furnish any false, fictitious, or fraudulent evidence, books, or
  information (including any certification, verification, notice, or report),
  to the Commission under this title, or to include in any evidence, books,
  or information so furnished any misrepresentation of a material fact,
  or to falsify or conceal any evidence, books, or information relevant
  to a certification by the Commission or an examination and audit by the
  Commission under this title, or
  `(B) to fail to furnish to the Commission any records, books, or information
  requested by it for purposes of this title.
  `(2) Any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (1) shall be
  fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(e)(1) It is unlawful for any person knowingly and willfully to give or
  accept any kickback or any illegal payment in connection with any benefits
  received by any candidate, or the authorized committees of such candidate,
  who receives benefits under this title.
  `(2) Any person who violates the provisions of paragraph (1) shall be
  fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(3) In addition to the penalty provided by paragraph (2), any person who
  accepts any kickback or illegal benefit in connection with any benefits
  received by any candidate pursuant to the provisions of this title, or
  received by the authorized committees of such candidate, shall pay to the
  Secretary for deposit in the Fund, an amount equal to 125 percent of the
  kickback or benefit received.
`JUDICIAL REVIEW
  `SEC. 508. (a) Any agency action by the Commission made under the provisions
  of this title shall be subject to review by the United States Court of
  Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upon petition filed in such
  court within thirty days after the agency action by the Commission for
  which review is sought. It shall be the duty of the Court of Appeals,
  ahead of all matters not filed under this title, to advance on the docket
  and expeditiously take action on all petitions filed pursuant to this title.
  `(b) The provisions of chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, apply
  to judicial review of any agency action, as defined in section 551(13)
  of title 5, United States Code, by the Commission.
`PARTICIPATION BY COMMISSION IN JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS
  `SEC. 509. (a) The Commission is authorized to appear in and defend
  against any action instituted under this section and under section 508
  either by attorneys employed in its office or by counsel whom it may
  appoint without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
  governing appointments in the competitive service, and whose compensation
  it may fix without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter
  III of chapter 53 of such title.
  `(b) The Commission is authorized through attorneys and counsel described
  in subsection (a), to institute actions in the district courts of the
  United States to seek recovery of any amounts determined under section
  507 to be payable to the Secretary.
  `(c) The Commission is authorized, through attorneys and counsel described
  in subsection (a), to petition the courts of the United States for such
  injunctive relief as is appropriate in order to implement any provision
  of this title.
  `(d) The Commission is authorized on behalf of the United States to
  appeal from, and to petition the Supreme Court for certiorari to review,
  judgments or decrees entered with respect to actions in which it appears,
  pursuant to the authority provided in this section.
`REPORTS TO CONGRESS; REGULATIONS
  `SEC. 510. (a) The Commission shall, as soon as practicable after each
  election, submit a full report to the Senate setting forth--
  `(1) the expenditures (shown in such detail as the Commission determines
  appropriate) made by each eligible candidate and the authorized committees
  of such candidate;
  `(2) the amounts certified by the Commission under section 505 for payment
  to each eligible candidate;
  `(3) the amount of repayments, if any, required under section 507, and
  the reasons for each payment required; and
  `(4) the balance in the Presidential Election Campaign Fund, and the
  balance in the Senate Fund and any other account maintained in the Fund.
Each report submitted pursuant to this section shall be printed as a Senate
document.
  `(b) The Commission is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations
  in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c), to conduct such
  examinations and investigations, and to require the keeping and submission
  of such books, records, and information, as it deems necessary to carry
  out the functions and duties imposed on it by this title.
  `(c) Thirty days before prescribing any rules or regulation under subsection
  (b), the Commission shall transmit to the Senate a statement setting forth
  the proposed rule or regulation and containing a detailed explanation and
  justification of such rule or regulation.
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 511. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Commission for
  the purpose of carrying out functions under this title, such sums as may
  be necessary.'.
SENATE FUND
  SEC. 3. Section 6096(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
  (1) by striking out `$1' each place it appears in that subsection and
  inserting in lieu thereof `$2'; and
  (2) by striking out `$2' each place it appears in that subsection and
  inserting in lieu thereof `$4'.
BROADCAST RATES
  SEC. 4. Section 315(b)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
  U.S.C. 315(b)(1)) is amended by striking the semicolon and inserting in
  lieu thereof the following: `: Provided, That in the case of candidates
  for United States Senator in a general election, as such term is defined in
  section 501(6) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, this provision
  shall apply only if such candidate has been certified by the Federal Election
  Commission as eligible to receive benefits under title V of such Act and such
  candidate is identified or identifiable during 50 percent of the time of any
  broadcast of a political announcement or advertisement by such candidate;'.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
  SEC. 5. (a) Section 304 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 434) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
  new subsections:
  `(d)(1) Not later than the day after the date on which a candidate for
  the United States Senate qualifies for the ballot for a general election,
  as such term is defined in section 501(6), or, if such candidate is a
  candidate in a State which has a primary election to qualify for such ballot
  after September 1, within 7 days after the date such candidate wins in such
  primary, whichever occurs first, each such candidate in such election shall
  file with the Commission a declaration of whether or not such candidate
  intends to make expenditures in excess of the amount of the limitation on
  expenditures for such election, as determined under section 503(b).
  `(2) Any declaration filed pursuant to paragraph (1) may be amended or
  changed at any time within 7 days after the filing of such declaration. Such
  amended declaration may not be amended or changed further.
  `(e)(1) Any candidate for the United States Senate who qualifies for the
  ballot for a general election, as such term is defined in section 501(6)--
  `(A) who is not eligible to receive benefits under section 502, and
  `(B) who either raises aggregate contributions or makes or obligates to
  make aggregate expenditures for such election which exceed 75 percent
  of the amount of the limitation determined under section 503(b) for such
  Senate election,
shall file a report with the Commission within 24 hours after such
contributions have been raised or such expenditures have been made or
obligated to be made, or within 24 hours after the date of qualification for
the general election ballot, whichever is later, setting forth the candidate's
total contributions and total expenditures for such election, and thereafter
shall file additional reports with the Commission within 24 hours after
each time additional contributions are raised or expenditures are made,
or are obligated to be made which aggregate an additional 5 percent of such
limit. Such reports shall continue to be filed pursuant to the provisions of
this section until such candidate has raised aggregate contributions or made
or has obligated to make aggregate expenditures equal to 133 1/3  percent
of the limit provided for such State pursuant to section 503(b).
  `(2) The Commission, within 24 hours after each such report has been filed,
  shall notify each candidate in the election involved who is eligible to
  receive benefits pursuant to the provisions of this title under section 504,
  about such report, and after an opposing candidate has raised aggregate
  contributions or made or has obligated to make aggregate expenditures in
  excess of the limit provided for such State pursuant to section 503(b),
  the Commission shall certify, pursuant to the provisions of subsection
  (i), such eligibility to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment of any
  amount to which such eligible candidate is entitled.
  `(3) Notwithstanding the reporting requirement established in this
  subsection, the Commission may make its own determination that a candidate
  in a general election, as such term is defined in section 501(6), who is
  not eligible to receive benefits under section 504, has raised aggregate
  contributions or made or has obligated to make aggregate expenditures for
  such election which exceed the amount of the limitation determined under
  section 503(b) for such election. The Commission, within 24 hours after
  making such determination, shall notify each candidate in the general
  election involved who is eligible to receive benefits under section 504
  about such determination, and shall certify, pursuant to the provisions
  of subsection (i), such eligibility to the Secretary of the Treasury for
  payment of any amount to which such candidate is entitled.
  `(f)(1) All independent expenditures, if any, (including those described
  in subsection (b)(6)(B)(iii)) made by any person after the date of the
  last Federal election with regard to a general election, as such term is
  defined in section 501(6), and all obligations to make such expenditures
  incurred by any person during such period, if any, shall be reported
  by such person to the Commission as provided in paragraph (2), if such
  expenditure or obligation is described in such paragraph.
  `(2) Independent expenditures by any person as referred to in paragraph
  (1) shall be reported within 24 hours after the aggregate amount of such
  expenditures incurred or obligated first exceeds $10,000. Thereafter,
  independent expenditures referred to in such paragraph, made by the same
  person in the same election, shall be reported within 24 hours after each
  time the aggregate amount of such expenditures incurred or obligated,
  not yet reported under this subparagraph, exceeds $5,000.
  `(3) Each report under this subsection shall be filed with the Commission
  and the Secretary of State for the State of the election involved and
  shall contain (A) the information required by subsection (b)(6)(B)(iii)
  of this section, and (B) a statement filed under penalty of perjury by the
  person making the independent expenditures, or by the person incurring the
  obligation to make such expenditures, as the case may be, that identifies
  the candidate whom the independent expenditures are actually intended to
  help elect or defeat. The Commission shall, within 24 hours after such
  report is made, notify each candidate in the election involved who is
  eligible to receive benefits pursuant to section 504(a)(1)(C) of this Act,
  about each such report, and shall certify such eligibility to the Secretary
  of the Treasury for payment in full of any amount to which such candidate
  is entitled.
  `(4)(A) Notwithstanding the reporting requirements established in this
  subsection, the Commission may make its own determination that a person
  has made independent expenditures, or has incurred an obligation to make
  such expenditures, as the case may be, with regard to a general election,
  as defined in section 501(6), that in the aggregate total more than the
  applicable amount specified in paragraph (2).
  `(B) The Commission shall, within 24 hours after such determination is
  made, notify each candidate in the election involved who is eligible to
  receive benefits under section 504(a)(1)(C) about each determination under
  subparagraph (A), and shall certify, pursuant to the provisions of subsection
  (i), such eligibility to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment in full
  of any amount to which such candidate is entitled.
  `(g)(1) When two or more persons make an expenditure or expenditures in
  coordination, consultation, or concert (as described in paragraph (2) or
  otherwise) for the purpose of promoting the election or defeat of a clearly
  identified candidate, each such person shall report to the Commission,
  under subsection (f), the amount of such expenditure or expenditures made
  by such person in coordination, consultation, or concert with such other
  person or persons when the total amount of all expenditures made by such
  persons in coordination, consultation, or concert with each other exceeds
  the applicable amount provided in such subsection.
  `(2) An expenditure by one person shall constitute an expenditure in
  coordination, consultation, or concert with another person where--
  `(A) there is any arrangement, coordination, or direction with respect to
  the expenditure between such persons making the expenditures, including
  any officer, director, employee or agent of such person;
  `(B) in the same two-year election cycle, one of the persons making the
  expenditures (including any officer, director, employee or agent of such
  person) is or has been, with respect to such expenditures--
  `(i) authorized by such other person to raise or expend funds on behalf
  of such other person; or
  `(ii) receiving any form of compensation or reimbursement from such other
  person or an agent of such other person;
  `(C) one of the persons making expenditures (including any officer,
  director, employee or agent of such person) has communicated with, advised,
  or counseled such other person in connection with such expenditure; or
  `(D) one of the persons making expenditures and such other person making
  expenditures each retain the professional services of the same individual
  or person in connection with such expenditures.
  `(h)(1) Every political committee, as defined in section 301(4),
  active in non-Federal elections and maintaining separate accounts for
  this purpose shall file with the Commission reports of funds received
  into and disbursements made from such accounts for activities which may
  influence an election to any Federal office. For purposes of this section,
  activities which may influence an election to any Federal office include,
  but are not limited to--
  `(A) voter registration and get-out-the-vote drives directed to the general
  public in connection with any election in which Federal candidates appear
  on the ballot;
  `(B) general public political advertising which includes references,
  however incidental, to clearly identified Federal as well as non-Federal
  candidates for public office; or which does not clearly identify Federal
  candidates but urges support for or opposition to all the candidates of a
  political party or other candidates in a classification or context which
  includes Federal candidates; and
  `(C) any other activities which require an allocation of costs between
  a political committee's Federal and non-Federal accounts reflecting the
  impact on Federal elections in accordance with regulations prescribed or
  Advisory Opinions rendered by the Commission.
  `(2) Reports required to be filed by this subsection shall be filed for the
  same time-periods required for political committees under section 304(a),
  and shall include:
  `(A) a separate statement, for each of the activities in connection with
  which a report is required under paragraph (1), of the aggregate total of
  disbursements from the non-Federal accounts; and
  `(B) supporting schedules, providing an identification of each donor
  together with the amount and date of each donation with regard to those
  receipts of the non-Federal account which comprise disbursements reported
  under subparagraph (A), provided, however, that such schedules are required
  only for donations from any one source aggregating in excess of $200 in
  any calendar year.
  `(3) Reports required to be filed by this subsection need not include
  donations made to or on behalf of non-Federal candidates or political
  organizations in accordance with the financing and reporting requirements
  of State laws, or other disbursements from the non-Federal accounts in
  support of exclusively non-Federal election activities, provided that such
  donations or disbursements are governed solely by such State laws and not
  subject to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  `(i) The certification required by this section shall be made by the
  Commission on the basis of reports filed with such Commission in accordance
  with the provisions of this Act, or on the basis of such Commission's
  own investigation or determination, notwithstanding the provisions of
  section 505(a).
  `(j) Within 15 days after a candidate for the Senate qualifies for the
  primary ballot under applicable State law, such candidate shall file with
  the Commission, a declaration stating whether or not such candidate intends
  to expend from his personal funds, and the funds of his immediate family,
  and incur personal loans, in connection with his campaign for such office,
  in the aggregate of $250,000 or more, for the election cycle.
  `(k)(1) Any candidate for the United States Senate who expends from his
  personal funds and the funds of his immediate family, and incurs personal
  loans, in connection with his campaign for such office, in the aggregate
  of $250,000 or more, for the election cycle, shall file a report with
  the Commission within 24 hours after such expenditures have been made or
  loans incurred. Thereafter the expenditures referred to in this paragraph
  shall be reported within 24 hours after each time the aggregate of such
  expenditures or loans exceeds $10,000.
  `(2) The Commission within 24 hours after a report has been filed under
  paragraph (1) shall notify each candidate in the election involved who
  is eligible to receive payments pursuant to the provisions of this title
  under section 504 about each such report.
  `(3) Notwithstanding the reporting requirements in this subsection,
  the Commission may make its own determination that a candidate for the
  United States Senate has made expenditures from the personal funds of
  such candidate or the funds of any member of the immediate family of
  such candidate or incurred personal loans in connection with his campaign
  aggregating in excess of $250,000, or thereafter in increments of $10,000
  during the election cycle. The Commission within 24 hours after making
  such determination shall notify each candidate in the general election
  involved who is eligible to receive benefits under section 504 about each
  such determination.'.
  (b) Section 301(8)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 431(8)(B)) is amended by--
  (1) inserting `except for purposes of reporting and disclosing, pursuant to
  section 304, such amounts in excess of $200,' at the beginning of  [Struck
  out->] subparagraphs (v), (viii), (x), and (xii)  [<-Struck out] clauses
  (v) and (viii); and
  (2) inserting at the end thereof the following:
  `(C) The exclusions provided in  [Struck out->] subparagraphs (v),
  (viii), (x), and (xii) of paragraph (B)  [<-Struck out] clauses (v) and
  (viii) of subparagraph (B) shall not be exclusions from the definition
  of contributions for purposes of reporting contributions as required by
  section 304, and all such contributions shall be reported.'.
  (c) Section 301(4) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
`For purposes of this section, the receipt of contributions or the making of,
or obligating to make expenditures shall be determined by the Commission on
the basis of facts and circumstances, in whatever combination, demonstrating
a purpose of influencing any election for Federal office, including, but
not limited to, the representations made by any person soliciting funds
about their intended uses; the identification by name of individuals who are
candidates for Federal office, as defined in paragraph (2) of this section,
or of any political party, in general public political advertising; and the
proximity to any primary, run-off, or general election of general public
political advertising designed or reasonably calculated to influence voter
choice in that election.'.
  (d) Section 301(9)(B) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 431(9)(B)) is amended by--
  (1) inserting `except for purposes of reporting and disclosing, pursuant to
  section 304, such amounts in excess of $200,' at the beginning of  [Struck
  out->] subparagraphs (iv), (vi), (viii), and (ix)  [<-Struck out] clauses
  (iv) and (vi); and
  (2) inserting at the end thereof the following:
  `(C) The exclusions provided in  [Struck out->] subparagraphs (iv),
  (vi), (viii), and (ix) of paragraph (B)  [<-Struck out] clauses (iv) and
  (vi) of subparagraph (B) shall not be exclusions from the definition of
  expenditures for purposes of reporting expenditures as required by this Act,
  and all such expenditures shall be reported.'.
  (e) Section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431)
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(20) The term `election cycle' means--
  `(A) in the case of a candidate or the authorized committees of a candidate,
  the term beginning on the day after the date of the last previous general
  election for such office or seat which such candidate seeks and ending on
  the date of the next election; or
  `(B) for all other persons, the term beginning on the first day following
  the date of the last general election and ending on the date of the next
  election.'.
  (f) Section 304(b)(2) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 434(b)(2)) is amended by striking out `for the reporting period and
  calendar year,' and inserting in lieu thereof `for the reporting period and
  calendar year in the case of committees other than authorized committees
  of a candidate, and for the reporting period and election cycle in the
  case of authorized committees of candidates,'.
  (g)(1) Section 304(b)(4) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 434(b)(4)) is amended by striking out `for the reporting period and
  calendar year,' and inserting in lieu thereof `for the reporting period and
  calendar year in the case of committees other than authorized committees
  of a candidate, and for the reporting period and election cycle in the
  case of authorized committees of candidates,'.
  (2) Section 304(b)(3) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 434(b)(3)) is amended--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after `calendar year,' the following:
  `in the case of committees other than authorized committees or in excess
  of $200 within the election cycle in the case of authorized committees,';
  (B) in subparagraph (F), by inserting after `calendar year,' the following:
  `in the case of committees other than authorized committees or in excess
  of $200 within the election cycle in the case of authorized committees,'; and
  (C) in subparagraph (G), by inserting after `calendar year,' the following:
  `in the case of committees other than authorized committees or in excess
  of $200 within the election cycle in the case of authorized committees,'.
  (3) Section 304(b)(5)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 434(b)(5)(A)) is amended by inserting after `calendar year,'
  the following: `in the case of committees other than authorized committees
  or in excess of $200 within the election cycle in the case of authorized
  committees,'.
  (4) Section 304(b)(6)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 434(b)(6)(A)) is amended by striking out `calendar year' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `election cycle'.
  (h) Section 301(13) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 431(13)) is amended by striking out `mailing address' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `permanent residence address'.
  (i) Section 304(b)(5)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 434(b)(5)(A)) is amended by adding before the semicolon at the end
  thereof the following: `, except that if a person to whom an expenditure
  is made is merely providing personal or consulting services and is in turn
  making expenditures to other persons who provide goods or services to the
  candidate or his authorized committees, the name and address of such other
  person, together with the date, amount and purpose of such expenditure
  shall also be disclosed'.
LIMITS ON CONTRIBUTIONS BY MULTICANDIDATE POLITICAL COMMITTEES AND SEPARATE
SEGREGATED FUNDS
  SEC. 6. (a) Section 315(a)(2) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(2)) is amended by--
  (1) striking out `or' at the end of subparagraph (B);
  (2) striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (C) and inserting
  in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
  (3) adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
  `(D) to any candidate for the office of Member of, or Delegate or Resident
  Commissioner to, the House of Representatives and the authorized political
  committees of such candidate with respect to--
  `(i) a general or special election for the office of Representative in, or
  Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress (including any primary
  election, convention, or caucus relating to such general or special election)
  which exceed $100,000 ($125,000 if at least two candidates qualify for
  the ballot in the general or special election involved and at least two
  candidates qualify for the ballot in a primary election relating to such
  general or special election), when added to the total of contributions
  previously made by multicandidate political committees and separate
  segregated funds, other than multicandidate committees of a political party,
  to such candidate and his authorized political committees with respect
  to such general or special election (including any primary election,
  convention, or caucus relating to such general or special election); or
  `(ii) a runoff election for the office of Representative in, or Delegate
  or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress which exceed $25,000 when added
  to the total of contributions previously made by multicandidate political
  committees and separate segregated funds, other than multicandidate
  committees of a political party, to such candidate and his authorized
  political committees with respect to such runoff election;
  `(E) to any candidate for the office of Senator and the authorized political
  committees of such candidate with respect to--
  `(i) a general or special election for such office (including any primary
  election, convention, or caucus relating to such general or special
  election) which, when added to the total of contributions previously made
  by multicandidate political committees and separate segregated funds, other
  than multicandidate committees of a political party, to such candidate
  and his authorized political committees with respect to such general or
  special election (including any primary election, convention, or caucus
  relating to such general or special election) exceeds an amount equal to
  30 percent of the amount provided in section 315(i); or
  `(ii) a runoff election for the office of United States Senator which
  exceeds, when added to the total of contributions previously made by
  multicandidate political committees and separate segregated funds, other
  than multicandidate committees of a political party, to such candidate and
  his authorized political committees with respect to such runoff election,
  an amount equal to 30 percent of the limitation on expenditures provided
  in section 315(j), for runoff elections; or
  `(F) to any State committee of a political party, including any subordinate
  committee of a State committee, which, when added to the total of
  contributions previously made by multicandidate political committees
  and separate segregated funds, other than multicandidate committees of a
  political party, to such State committee exceeds an amount equal to--
  `(i) 2 cents multiplied by the voting age population of the State of such
  State committee, or
  `(ii) $25,000,
whichever is greater. The limitation of this subparagraph shall apply
separately with respect to each two-year Federal election cycle, covering a
period from the day following the date of the last Federal general election
held in that State through the date of the next regularly scheduled Federal
general election.'.
  (b)(1) Section 315 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 441a) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(i) For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(E)(i), such limitation shall be an
  amount equal to 67 percent of the aggregate of $400,000, plus--
  `(1) in States having a voting age population of 4 million or less, 30
  cents multiplied by the voting age population; or
  `(2) in States having a voting age population over 4 million, 30 cents
  multiplied by 4 million plus 25 cents multiplied by the voting age population
  over 4 million;
except that such amount shall not be less than $950,000, nor more than
$5,500,000.
  `(j) For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(E)(ii), such limitation shall be
  an amount equal to 20 percent of the aggregate of $400,000, plus--
  `(1) in States having a voting age population of 4 million or less, 30
  cents multiplied by the voting age population; or
  `(2) in States having a voting age population over 4 million, 30 cents
  multiplied by 4 million plus 25 cents multiplied by the voting age population
  over 4 million;
except that such amount shall not be less than $950,000, nor more than
$5,500,000.'.
  (2) Section 315(c) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 441a(c)) is amended by--
  (A) striking out `subsection (b) and subsection (d)' in paragraph (1)
  and inserting in lieu thereof `subsections (b), (d), (i), and (j)'; and
  (B) inserting `for subsections (b) and (d) and the term `base period' means
  the calendar year of the first election after the date of enactment of the
  Senatorial Election Campaign Act of  [Struck out->] 1987,  [<-Struck out]
  1989, for subsections (i) and (j)' before the period at the end of paragraph
  (2)(B).
  (c) Section 315(d) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 441a(d)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking out `(2) and (3)' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `(2), (3), (4), and (5)';
  (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(4) No congressional campaign committee may accept, during any two-year
  election cycle, contributions from multicandidate political committees and
  separate segregated funds which, in the aggregate, exceed 30 percent of the
  total expenditures which may be made during such election cycle by that
  campaign committee on behalf of candidates for Senator, Representative,
  Delegate, or Resident Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
  (3).
  `(5) No national committee of a political party may accept contributions
  from multicandidate political committees and separate segregated funds,
  during any two-year election cycle, which, in the aggregate, equal an
  amount in excess of an amount equal to 2 cents multiplied by the voting
  age population of the United States.
  `(6) The limitations contained in paragraphs (2) and (3) shall apply to
  any expenditure through general public political advertising, whenever
  made, which clearly identifies by name an individual who is, or is seeking
  nomination to be, a candidate in the general election for Federal office
  of President, Senator or Representative; provided that this paragraph shall
  not apply to direct mail communications designed primarily for fundraising
  purposes which make only incidental reference to any one or more Federal
  candidates.'.
INTERMEDIARY OR CONDUIT
  SEC. 7. (a) Section 315(a)(8) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 441a(a)(8)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(8) For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) contributions made by a person, either directly or indirectly, to or
  on behalf of a particular candidate, including contributions which are in
  any way earmarked or otherwise directed through an intermediary or conduit
  to such candidate, shall be treated as contributions from such person to
  such candidate;
  `(B) contributions made by a person either directly or indirectly, to or
  on behalf of a particular candidate, through an intermediary or conduit,
  including all contributions delivered or arranged to be delivered by such
  intermediary or conduit, shall also be treated as contributions from the
  intermediary or conduit, if--
  `(i) the contributions made through the intermediary or conduit are in
  the form of a check or other negotiable instrument made payable to the
  conduit or intermediary rather than the intended recipient; or
  `(ii) the conduit or intermediary is a political committee, other than an
  authorized committee of a candidate, within the meaning of section 301(4),
  or an officer, employee or other agent of such a political committee, or
  an officer, employee or other agent of a connected organization, within
  the meaning of section 301(7), acting in its behalf;  [Struck out->] and
  [<-Struck out] or
  `(iii) the conduit or intermediary is required to register as a lobbyist
  or lobby organization as defined under (2 U.S.C. 266), or an officer,
  employee or other agent of such an organization.'
  `(C) the limitations imposed by this paragraph shall not apply to--
  `(i) bona fide joint fundraising efforts conducted solely for the purpose
  of sponsorship of a fundraising reception, dinner, or other event in
  accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the Commission by
  (I) two or more candidates, (II) two or more national, State, or local
  committees of a political party within the meaning of section 301(4)
  acting on their own behalf, or (III) a special committee formed by (a) two
  or more candidates or (b) one or more candidates and one or more national,
  State, or local committees of a political party acting on their own behalf;
  `(ii) fundraising efforts for the benefit of a candidate which are conducted
  by another candidate within the meaning of section 301(2).
In all cases where contributions are made by a person either directly or
indirectly to or on behalf of a particular candidate through an intermediary
or conduit, the intermediary or conduit shall report the original source
and the intended recipient of such contribution to the Commission and to
the intended recipient.'.
INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURES
  SEC. 8. (a) Section 301(17) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 431(17)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: `An
  expenditure shall constitute an expenditure in coordination, consultation,
  or concert with a candidate and shall not constitute an `independent
  expenditure' where--
  `(A) there is any arrangement, coordination, or direction with respect
  to the expenditure between the candidate or the candidate's agent and the
  person (including any officer, director, employee or agent of such person)
  making the expenditure;
  `(B) in the same election cycle, the person making the expenditure (including
  any officer, director, employee or agent of such person) is or has been--
  `(i) authorized to raise or expend funds on behalf of the candidate or
  the candidate's authorized committees,
  `(ii) serving as an officer of the candidate's authorized committees, or
  `(iii) receiving any form of compensation or reimbursement from the
  candidate, the candidate's authorized committees, or the candidate's agent;
  `(C) the person making the expenditure (including any officer, director,
  employee or agent of such person) has communicated with, advised, or
  counseled the candidate or the candidate's agents at any time on the
  candidate's plans, projects, or needs relating to the candidate's pursuit
  of nomination for election, or election to Federal office, in the same
  election cycle, including any advice relating to the candidate's decision
  to seek Federal office;
  `(D) the person making the expenditure retains the professional services of
  any individual or other person also providing those services to the candidate
  in connection with the candidate's pursuit of nomination for election,
  or election to Federal office, in the same election cycle, including any
  services relating to the candidate's decision to seek Federal office;
  `(E) the person making the expenditure (including any officer, director,
  employee or agent of such person) has communicated or consulted at any time
  during the same election cycle about the candidate's plans, projects, or
  needs relating to the candidate's pursuit of election to Federal office,
  with: (i) any officer, director, employee or agent of a party committee
  that has made or intends to make expenditures or contributions, pursuant
  to subsections (a), (d), or (h) of section 315 in connection with the
  candidate's campaign; or (ii) any person whose professional services have
  been retained by a political party committee that has made or intends to
  make expenditures or contributions pursuant to subsections (a), (d), or
  (h) of section 315 in connection with the candidate's campaign; or
  `(F) the expenditure is based on information provided to the person making
  the expenditure directly or indirectly by the candidate or the candidate's
  agents about the candidate's plans, projects, or needs, provided that the
  candidate or the candidate's agent is aware that the other person has made
  or is planning to make expenditures expressly advocating the candidate's
  election.'.
INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURE BROADCAST DISCLOSURE
  SEC. 9. Section 318(a)(3) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 441d(a)(3)) is amended by deleting the period at the end thereof
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `, except that whenever
  any person makes an independent expenditure through (A) a broadcast
  communication on any television station, the broadcast communication
  shall include a statement clearly readable to the viewer that appears
  continuously during the entire length of such communication setting forth
  the name of such person and in the case of a political committee, the name
  of any connected or affiliated organization, or (B) a newspaper, magazine,
  outdoor advertising facility, direct mailing or other type of general public
  political advertising, the communication shall include, in addition to
  the other information required by this subsection, the following sentence:
  `The cost of presenting this communication is not subject to any campaign
  contribution limits.', and a statement setting forth the name of the person
  who paid for the communication and, in the case of a political committee,
  the name of any connected or affiliated organization and the name of the
  president or treasurer of such organization.'.
PERSONAL LOANS
  SEC. 10. Section 315(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 441a(a)), as amended by section 7 of this Act, is further amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
  `(9) For purposes of the limitations imposed by this section, no
  contributions may be received by a candidate or the candidate's authorized
  committees for the purpose of repaying any loan by the candidate to the
  candidate or to the candidate's authorized committees.'.
REFERRAL TO THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
  SEC. 11. Section 309(a)(5)(C) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
  1971 (2 U.S.C. 437g(a)(5)(C)) is amended by striking out `may refer'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `shall refer'.
EXTENSION OF CREDIT
  SEC. 12. Section 301(8)(A) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 431(8)(A)) is amended by--
  (1) striking out `or' at the end of clause (i);
  (2) striking out the period at the end of clause (ii) and inserting in
  lieu thereof `; or'; and
  (3) adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(iii) with respect to a candidate for the office of United States Senator
  and his authorized political committees, any extension of credit for goods
  or services relating to advertising on broadcasting stations, in newspapers
  or magazines, by direct mail (including direct mail fund solicitations)
  or other similar types of general public political advertising, if such
  extension of credit is--
  `(I) in an amount of more than $1,000; and
  `(II) for a period of more than 60 days after the date on which such goods or
  services are furnished, which date in the case of advertising by direct mail
  (including a direct mail solicitation) shall be the date of the mailing.'.
PREFERENTIAL RATES FOR MAIL
  SEC. 13. (a) Subchapter II of chapter 36 of title 39, United States Code,
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 3629. Reduced rates for certain Senate candidates
  `The rates of postage for matter mailed with respect to a campaign by
  an eligible candidate (as defined in section 501 of the Federal Election
  Campaign Act of 1971) shall be--
  `(1) in the case of first-class mail matter, one-fourth of the rate
  currently in effect; and
  `(2) in the case of third-class mail matter, 2 cents per piece less than
  mail matter mailed pursuant to paragraph (1),
provided that the total paid by such candidate for all mail matter at the
rates provided by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not exceed 5 percent of the
amount which is applicable to such candidate pursuant to section 503(b)
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971.'.
  (b) The table of sections for chapter 36 of title 39, United States Code, is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3628 the following
  new item:
`3629. Reduced rates for certain Senate candidates.'.
DISCLOSURE
  SEC. 14. Section 318(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
  (2 U.S.C. 441d) is amended by--
  (1) striking out the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting in
  lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (2) adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(4) if paid for or authorized by a general election candidate for the
  Senate, or the authorized committee of such candidate who has not agreed
  to abide by the expenditure limits in section 503, such advertisement or
  announcement shall contain the following sentence: `This candidate has not
  agreed to abide by the spending limits for this Senate election campaign
  set forth in the Federal Election Campaign Act.'.'.
EXCESS CAMPAIGN FUNDS
  SEC. 15. Section 313 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C.
  [Struck out->] 439A  [<-Struck out] 439a) is amended by striking out
  `political party;' through the end of the paragraph and inserting in lieu
  thereof `political party.'.
POLITICAL COMMITTEE POSTAL RATES
  SEC. 16. Subsection (e) of section 3626 of title 39, United States Code,
  is hereby repealed.
CERTIFICATION BY PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES ACCEPTING PUBLIC FUNDS CONCERNING
COMPLIANCE WITH FUNDRAISING AND EXPENDITURE LIMITATIONS
  SEC. 17. Section 9006 of title 26, United States Code, is amended by adding
  at the end of that section the following subsection:
  `(d) In order to be eligible to receive any payments under this section,
  a candidate described in sections (b) and (c) above shall certify to the
  Commission, under penalty of perjury, that during the Presidential primary
  and the general election period, the candidate, and his or her authorized
  committees and agents, has not and will not solicit, receive or spend,
  directly or indirectly, any funds in connection with a Federal, State or
  local election, including funds for get out the vote, voter registration
  and generic campaign activities unless such funds are subject to the
  provisions of this Act, including its limitations and prohibitions. For
  purposes of this subsection, the term `agent' includes but is not limited
  to any person who is, or has been authorized to raise funds; who is,
  or has been, an officer of an authorized committee; who is, or has been,
  receiving any form of compensation or reimbursement from the candidate or
  his authorized committees; who has, or has had, actual oral or written
  authority, either express, or implied, to make or authorize the making
  of expenditures on behalf of a candidate or to authorize the receipt of
  contributions on behalf of a candidate.'.
SOFT MONEY
  SEC. 18. (a)  [Struck out->] Insert after section 441(a)(d)(2) of title
  2, United States Code, the following new section  [<-Struck out] Section
  315(d) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a(d)),
  as amended by section 6(c), is further amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6) as paragraphs (4),
  (5), (6), and (7);
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
  `(3) A State committee of a political party, including any subordinate
  committee of a political party, may not make any expenditure in connection
  with the general election campaign of any candidate for President of the
  United States who is affiliated with such party which exceeds an amount
  equal to 4 cents multiplied by the voting age population of that State
  (as certified under subsection  [Struck out->] (g)  [<-Struck out] (e)
  of this section).' [Struck out->] . [<-Struck out] ; and
  (3) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this subsection,
  by striking `(2) and (3)' and inserting `(2) and (4)'.
  (b)  [Struck out->] Section 431 of title 2, United States Code,  [<-Struck
  out] Section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431)
  is amended by repealing the following clauses: clause (x) and clause (xii)
  of subsection 431(8)(B) and clause (viii) and clause (ix) of subsection
  431(9)(B).
  (c)  [Struck out->] At the appropriate place in the Act, insert the following
  new section:  [<-Struck out] Section 315 of the Federal Election Campaign
  Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 441a) is amended by inserting at the end thereof
  the following new subsection:
  `(k) Any amount solicited, received or spent by a national, State or local
  committee of a political party, directly or indirectly, shall be subject
  to the provisions of this Act, if such amount is solicited, received or
  spent in connection with a Federal election. No part of such amount may
  be allocated to a non-Federal account or otherwise maintained in, or paid
  from, an account that is not subject to this Act. This section shall not
  apply to amounts described in section 431(b)(B)(viii) of title 2.
  `For purposes of this section, the term `in connection with a Federal
  election' includes any activity that may affect a Federal election including
  but not limited to the following:
  `(1) voter registration and get out the vote activities;
  `(2) generic activities, including but not limited to any broadcasting,
  newspaper, magazine, billboard, mail, or similar type of communication or
  public advertising;
  `(3) campaign materials which identify a federal candidate, regardless of
  any other candidate who may also be identified.'.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION REFORM
  SEC. 19. (a) Section 306(a)(1) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
  1971 (2 U.S.C.  [Struck out->] 437e(a)(1)  [<-Struck out] 437c(a)(1))
  is amended by--
  (1) striking out `6 members' and inserting in lieu thereof `7 members'; and
  (2) amending the last sentence to read as follows: `No more than 4 members
  of the Commission appointed under this paragraph may be affiliated with
  the same political party, and such appointments shall be made in a manner
  to assure that the same political party shall not have 4 or more members
  affiliated with such party on such Commission for two succeeding years.'.
  (b) Section 306(a)(2) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2
  U.S.C. 437c(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(2)(A) Members of the Commission shall serve for terms of 7 years, except
  that of the members appointed after April 30, 1989--
  `(i) one of the two members appointed for the term beginning May 1, 1991,
  shall be appointed for a term of 6 years;
  `(ii) one of the two members appointed for the term beginning May 1, 1993,
  shall be appointed for a term of 6 years; and
  `(iii) one of the two members appointed for the term beginning May 1,
  1995, shall be appointed for a term of 6 years.
  `(B) One additional member of the Commission shall be appointed for a term
  beginning May 1, 1989, and shall be appointed for a term of 5 years.'.
SEVERABILITY
  SEC. 20. If any provision of this Act or any amendment made by this Act, or
  the application of any such provision to any person or circumstance is held
  invalid, the validity of any other such provision and the application of such
  provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
EFFECTIVE DATE
  SEC. 21. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act and the
  amendments made by this Act shall become effective for any election held
  in 1992 or thereafter.
  (b) The amendments made by section 3, section 7, section 8, and section
  9 shall become effective on the date of enactment of this Act.
S 137 RS----2
S 137 RS----3
S 137 RS----4
S 137 RS----5