Calendar No. 149
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1367
[Report No. 102-101]
A BILL
To extend to the People's Republic of China renewal of nondiscriminatory
(most-favored-nation) treatment until 1992 provided certain conditions are met.
July 9 (legislative day, JULY 8), 1991
Reported without amendment and without recommendation
S 1367 RS
Calendar No. 149
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1367
[Report No. 102-101]
To extend to the People's Republic of China renewal of nondiscriminatory
(most-favored-nation) treatment until 1992 provided certain conditions are met.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 25 (legislative day, JUNE 11), 1991
Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. PELL, Mr. CRANSTON, Mr. BIDEN,
Mr. MOYNIHAN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. WALLOP, Mr. INOUYE, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. DECONCINI,
Mr. GLENN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. DIXON, Mr. SASSER, Mr. DODD, Mr. KERRY, Mr. WIRTH,
Mr. AKAKA, Mr. METZENBAUM, Mr. FORD, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. WELLSTONE,
and Mr. RIEGLE) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and
referred to the Committee on Finance
July 9 (legislative day, JULY 8), 1991
Reported by Mr. BENTSEN, without amendment and without recommendation
A BILL
To extend to the People's Republic of China renewal of nondiscriminatory
(most-favored-nation) treatment until 1992 provided certain conditions are met.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `United States-China Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND POLICY.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) The Chinese people have provided a dramatic demonstration of their
  desire for democratic freedoms. Thousands of courageous Chinese students
  and workers, men and women, demonstrated on June 4, 1989, that they were
  willing to die, or face imprisonment or exile, in pursuit of democratic
  self-determination and human rights.
  (2) The Government of the People's Republic of China, which is a member
  of the United Nations and obligated to uphold the United Nations Charter
  and Universal Declaration of Human Rights, continues to commit violations
  of internationally recognized human rights, including--
  (A) torture or other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment;
  (B) prolonged detention without charges and trials, and sentencing of
  members of the pro-democracy movement for peaceful advocacy of democracy;
  (C) use of forced labor of prisoners to produce cheap products for export
  to countries, including the United States, in violation of international
  labor treaties and United States law;
  (D) abduction and clandestine detention of individuals; and
  (E) other flagrant denials of basic human rights.
  (3) The Government of the People's Republic of China has denied Chinese
  citizens who support the pro-democracy movement and others the right of
  free, unimpeded emigration.
  (4) The Government of the People's Republic of China has restricted the
  number of students permitted to study abroad and has required college
  students to attend military indoctrination courses, to work 5 years after
  graduation, and to pay large sums of money before being eligible to apply
  for study outside China.
  (5) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues to violate
  the fundamental human rights of the people of Tibet and uses the People's
  Liberation Army and police forces to intimidate and repress Tibetan
  and Chinese citizens peacefully demonstrating for democratic change and
  religious freedom.
  (6) The Government of the People's Republic of China has not demonstrated
  its willingness and intention to participate as a full and responsible
  party in good faith efforts to control the proliferation of dangerous
  military technology and weapons, including biological, chemical, and
  nuclear weapons technologies.
  (7) The Government of the People's Republic of China continues clandestinely
  to supply arms and military assistance to the genocidal Khmer Rouge forces
  fighting in Cambodia.
  (8) The Government of the People's Republic of China has interfered with
  the rights of the people of Hong Kong to exercise self-determination in
  their political, cultural, and economic activities.
  (9) The President of the United States has suspended all
  government-to-government sales and commercial exports of weapons to China
  and issued an Executive order to treat sympathetically requests by Chinese
  students in the United States to extend their stay.
  (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (1) the additional existing sanctions being applied against the People's
  Republic of China on the date of the enactment of this Act in the areas
  of technology exports and international monetary loans should be continued
  and strictly enforced; and
  (2) the United States Government should consult with members of the United
  States business community operating or investing in the People's Republic
  of China in order to discuss the establishment of guidelines for corporate
  activity in that country.
SEC. 3. PROVISIONS FOR RENEWAL OF MOST-FAVORED-NATION STATUS.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the People's Republic of China
  may not be provided nondiscriminatory (most-favored-nation) trade treatment
  for the 12-month period beginning July 3, 1992, under any provision of title
  IV of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2431 et seq.), unless the President
  reports in the document required to be submitted by section 402(d)(1)(B)
  of such Act that the Government of the People's Republic of China--
  (1) has accounted for those citizens detained, accused, or sentenced as
  a result of the nonviolent expression of their political beliefs;
  (2) has released those citizens who were imprisoned after such detention,
  accusation, or sentencing;
  (3) has ceased exporting products to the United States manufactured, wholly
  or in part, by convict, forced, or indentured labor under penal sanctions;
  (4) has ceased supplying arms and military assistance to the Khmer Rouge;
  (5) has made significant progress in--
  (A) fulfilling its commitment to engage in high-level discussions on human
  rights issues,
  (B) taking appropriate action to prevent gross violations of internationally
  recognized human rights and fundamental freedoms in the People's Republic
  of China and Tibet, including cessation of religious persecution and removal
  of restrictions on freedom of the press and Voice of America broadcasts,
  (C) terminating intimidation and harassment of Chinese citizens in the
  United States,
  (D) ensuring access of international human rights monitoring groups to
  prisoners, trials, and places of detention,
  (E) providing adequate protection of United States patents, copyrights,
  and other intellectual property rights,
  (F) providing American exporters fair access to Chinese markets, including
  lowering tariffs, removing nontariff barriers, and increasing the purchase
  of United States goods and services, and
  (G) adopting a national policy which adheres to, and ceasing activities
  inconsistent with--
  (i) the limitations and controls contained in the Missile Technology
  Control Regime (MTCR),
  (ii) the standards and guidelines set by the Nuclear Suppliers Group, and
  (iii) the standards and guidelines set by the Australia Group on chemical
  and biological arms proliferation; and
  (6) is adhering to the Joint Declaration on Hong Kong that was entered
  into between the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China.
SEC. 4. IMMEDIATE TERMINATION OF MOST-FAVORED-NATION STATUS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than the day which is 15 days after the date
  of the enactment of this Act, products of the People's Republic of China
  shall be denied nondiscriminatory (most-favored-nation) trade treatment,
  unless the President certifies to the Congress in writing that the People's
  Republic of China has not transferred to Syria or Iran ballistic missiles
  or missile launchers for the weapon systems known as the M-9 or the M-11,
  and has not transferred to Pakistan ballistic missiles or missile launchers
  for the weapon system known as the M-9, or ballistic missiles for the
  weapon system known as the M-11.
  (b) SUBSEQUENT TRANSFERS OF WEAPONS- If, at any time after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, the President determines that any transfer described
  in subsection (a) has occurred, then the President shall immediately--
  (1) notify the Congress of such transfer, and
  (2) terminate nondiscriminatory (most-favored-nation) trade treatment for
  the products of the People's Republic of China.
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this Act:
  (1) The term `gross violations of internationally recognized human rights'
  includes torture, cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment,
  prolonged detention without charges and trial, causing the disappearance
  of persons by the abduction and clandestine detention of those persons,
  secret judicial proceedings, and other flagrant denial of the right to life,
  liberty, or the security of any person.
  (2) The terms `detained' and `imprisoned' include incarceration in prisons,
  jails, labor reform camps, labor reeducation camps, and local police
  detention centers.
  (3) The term `acts of intimidation and harassment' means actions taken by
  the Government of the People's Republic of China that are intended to deter
  or interfere with, or to be in retaliation for, the nonviolent expression
  of political beliefs by Chinese citizens within the United States.
  (4) The term `significant progress' means specific actions taken to achieve
  the objectives stated in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 3(5).
  (5) The term `forced labor' has the meaning given to such term by section
  307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
  (6) The term `Missile Technology Control Regime' or `MTCR' means the
  agreement, as amended, between the United States, the United Kingdom, the
  Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and Japan, announced
  on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant transfers based
  on an annex of missile equipment and technology.