Calendar No. 296
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 195
[Report No. 101-166]
A BILL
Entitled the `Chemical and Biological Weapons Control Act of 1989'.
October 17 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported with an amendment and an amendment to the title
S 195 RS
Calendar No. 296
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 195
[Report No. 101-166]
Entitled the `Chemical and Biological Weapons Control Act of 1989'.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 25 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. PELL (for himself, Mr. HELMS, Mr. KERRY, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. GORE, Mr. SIMON,
Mr. BOSCHWITZ, Mr. DODD, Mrs. KASSEBAUM, Mr. BURDICK, Mr. HUMPHREY,
Mr. SANFORD, Mr. BIDEN, Mr. COHEN, Mr. HARKIN, Mr. DOLE, Mr. STEVENS,
Mr. MURKOWSKI, Mr. LUGAR, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. BOREN, Mr. BREAUX,
Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. FORD, Mr. MATSUNAGA, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. WIRTH, Mr. LOTT, and
Mr. GORTON) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred
to the Committee on Foreign Relations
October 17 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported by Mr. PELL, with an amendment and an amendment to the title
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
A BILL
Entitled the `Chemical and Biological Weapons Control Act of 1989'.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
 [Struck out->] SHORT TITLE [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SECTION. 1. This Act may be cited as the `Chemical and
 Biological Weapons Control Act of 1989'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] FINDINGS AND PURPOSE [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 2. The Congress finds that-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) chemical weapons were employed in the recent Iran-Iraq
 war and by Iraq in attacks against its Kurdish minority; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) the use of chemical or biological weapons in
 contravention of international law is abhorrent and requires immediate and
 effective sanctions; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) United Nations Security Council Resolution 620,
 adopted on August 26, 1988, states the intention of the Security Council
 to consider immediately `appropriate and effective' sanctions against any
 nation using chemical and biological weapons in violation of international
 law; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (d) the Declaration of the Paris Conference on Chemical
 Weapons Use demonstrates the resolve of most nations to reaffirm support for
 the 1925 protocol banning the use of chemical and bacteriological weapons
 and to press for attainment of a ban on the production and possession of
 lethal and incapacitation chemical weapons; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (e) a growing number of nations, including Libya and Syria,
 have or are seeking the capability to produce lethal and incapacitating
 chemical weapons; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (f) the further spread of chemical or biological weapons
 capabilities would pose of a threat of incalculable proportions to friends
 and allies and undermine the national security of the United States;
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (g) the United Nations should create an effective means
 of monitoring and reporting regularly on commerce in equipment, materials,
 and technology applicable to the attainment of a chemical and biological
 weapons capability; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (h) every effort should be made to conclude an early
 agreement banning the production and stockpiling of lethal and incapacitating
 chemical weapons. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] PURPOSE [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 3. It is the purpose of this Act to mandate United
 States sanctions and to encourage international sanctions against nations
 that use chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law;
 to require semi-annual presidential reports on efforts by Iran, Iraq,
 Libya, and Syria and other developing nations to acquire the materials and
 technology to produce and deliver chemical and biological weapons; to urge
 cooperation with other supplier nations to devise effective controls on the
 transfer of materials, equipment, and technology applicable to chemical or
 biological weapons production; to promote agreements banning the transfer
 of missiles suitable for armament with chemical or biological warheads; to
 encourage an early agreement banning the production and stockpiling of lethal
 and incapacitating chemical or biological weapons; and to seek effective
 international means of monitoring and reporting regularly on commerce in
 equipment, materials, and technology applicable to the attainment of a
 chemical or biological weapons capability. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] AUTOMATIC SANCTIONS FOR THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 4. In the event any foreign country shall use chemical
 or biological weapons in violation of international law or against its own
 citizens, the sanctions listed below shall take effect against such country:
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) The United States Government shall not sell the
 sanctioned country and item on the United States Munitions List. [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) Licenses shall not be issued for the export to the
 sanctioned country of any item on the United States Munitions List. [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) The authorities of section 6 of the Export Administration
 Act of 1979 shall be used to prohibit the export to the sanctioned country
 of any goods or technology on the control list established pursuant to
 section 5(c)(1) of that Act. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (d) The United States shall oppose any loan or financial or
 technical assistance to the sanctioned country by international financial
 institutions in accordance with section 701 of the International Financial
 Institutions Act. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (e) The United States shall not provide any military or
 economic assistance (except for urgent humanitarian assistance) to the
 sanctioned country. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (f) The United States shall not import any good, commodity,
 or service from the sanctioned country. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (g) The United States shall not provide the sanctioned
 country any credit or credit guarantees through the Export-Import Bank of
 the United States. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (h) Regulations shall be issued to prohibit any United
 States bank from making any loan or providing any credit to the sanctioned
 country. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (i) Landing rights in the United States shall be denied to
 any airline owned by the government of the sanctioned country. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] WAIVER [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 5. The President may waive some or all of the sanctions
 listed above for a period not to exceed nine months following the illegal
 use of chemical or biological weapons if he determines that such waiver is in
 the national interest of the United States and so reports in writing to the
 Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee
 on Foreign Relations of the Senate. In making such a report, the President
 shall present a detailed explanation of the national interest requiring a
 waiver. In no event shall the President have authority under this Act to
 issue a waiver for that country that would remain in effect beyond nine
 months following the initial illegal use of chemical weapons. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] NOTIFICATION [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 6. Not later than five days after sanctions become
 effective against a country pursuant to this section, the President shall
 so notify in writing the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the
 chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] CONTRACT SANCTITY [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 7. The President may not prohibit or curtail the
 execution of any contract or agreement (except for an agreement to provide
 military assistance or to sell military equipment) entered into prior to the
 date on which Congress is notified of the imposition of sanctions against
 a country pursuant to this section. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] REMOVAL OF SANCTIONS [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 8. The President may waive any sanctions imposed
 pursuant to section 3 of this Act if the President determines and so certifies
 in writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman
 of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the nation under
 sanction-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) has eliminated facilities for the production of chemical
 or biological weapons and existing stockpiles of such weapons; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) has renounced the use of chemical or biological weapons
 in violation of international law and provided reliable assurances to that
 effect; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) has made satisfactory restitution to those affected
 by its earlier use of chemical or biological weapons in violation of
 international law. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] PRESIDENTIAL REPORTS [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 9. Not later than ninety days after the date of
 enactment of this Act, and every one hundred and eighty days thereafter,
 the President shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
 and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report
 on efforts by Iran, Iraq, Libya, and Syria and other developing nations to
 acquire the materials and technology to produce and deliver chemical and
 biological weapons, together with an assessment of such countries' present
 and future capability to produce and deliver such weapons. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] MULTILATERAL EFFORTS [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 10. The President of the United States is urged--
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) to continue close cooperation with others in the
 nineteen nation Australian Group in support of its current efforts and in
 devising additional means to monitor and control the supply of chemicals
 applicable to weapons production to Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Libya--nations
 that currently support or have recently supported acts of international
 terrorism; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) to work closely with other nations also capable of
 supplying equipment, materials, and technology with particular applicability
 to chemical or biological weapons production to devise the most effective
 controls possible on the transfer of such materials, equipment, and
 technology; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) to seek agreements with nations that produce ballistic
 missiles suitable for carrying chemical or biological warheads that would
 prevent the transfer of such missiles; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (d) to take the initiative in pressing for early conclusion
 of an international agreement banning the production and stockpiling of
 lethal and incapacitating chemical or biological weapons. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] UNITED NATIONS INVOLVEMENT [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 11. The President is urged to give full support to--
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) the United Nations Security Council, in furtherance
 of Security Council Resolution 620, adopted August 26, 1988, in developing
 sanctions comparable to those enumerated in section 3 of this Act to be
 imposed in the event any nation uses chemical or biological weapons in
 violation of international law; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) the creation by the United Nations of an effective means
 of monitoring and reporting regularly on commerce in chemical equipment,
 materials, and technology applicable to the attainment of a chemical or
 biological weapons capability. [<-Struck out]
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Chemical and Biological Weapons Control Act
  of 1989'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) chemical weapons were employed in the recent Iran-Iraq war and by Iraq
  in attacks against its Kurdish minority;
  (2) the use of chemical and biological weapons in violation of international
  law is abhorrent and requires immediate and effective sanctions;
  (3) United Nations Security Council Resolution 620, adopted on August 26,
  1988, states the intention of the Security Council to consider immediately
  `appropriate and effective' sanctions against any country using chemical
  and biological weapons in violation of international law;
  (4) the Declaration of the Paris Conference on the Prohibition of Chemical
  Weapons demonstrates the resolve of most countries to reaffirm support for
  the 1925 protocol banning the use of chemical and bacteriological weapons
  and to press for attainment of a ban on the production and possession of
  chemical weapons;
  (5) as many as 20 countries, including Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Libya have
  or are seeking the capability to produce chemical weapons;
  (6) as many as 10 countries are working to produce biological weapons;
  (7) by the year 2000, at least 15 developing countries will have the
  ability to produce ballistic missiles capable of carrying chemical or
  biological warheads;
  (8) the further spread of chemical or biological weapons capabilities
  would pose a threat of incalculable proportions to friends and allies of
  the United States and undermine the national security of the United States;
  (9) the United Nations should create an effective means of monitoring and
  reporting regularly on commerce in equipment, materials, and technology
  applicable to the attainment of a chemical or biological weapons capability;
  and
  (10) every effort should be made to conclude an early agreement banning
  the production and stockpiling of chemical or biological weapons.
SEC. 3. PURPOSE.
  It is the purpose of this Act--
  (1) to mandate United States sanctions and to encourage international
  sanctions against countries that use chemical or biological weapons in
  violation of international law or use lethal chemical or biological weapons
  against their own nationals;
  (2) to require presidential reports on efforts that threaten United States
  interests or regional stability by Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya, and others
  to acquire the materials and technology to develop, produce, stockpile,
  and deliver chemical and biological weapons;
  (3) to urge cooperation with other supplier nations to devise effective
  controls on the transfer of materials, equipment, and technology applicable
  to chemical or biological weapons production;
  (4) to promote agreements banning the transfer of missiles suitable for
  armament with chemical or biological warheads;
  (5) to encourage an early agreement banning the development, production,
  and stockpiling of chemical weapons; and
  (6) to seek effective international means of monitoring and reporting
  regularly on commerce in equipment, materials, and technology applicable
  to the attainment of a chemical or biological weapons capability.
TITLE I--SANCTIONS AGAINST THE USE OF CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS
SEC. 101. SANCTIONS FOR THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
  (a) DETERMINATION BY THE PRESIDENT- (1) Whenever information becomes
  available to the United States Government indicating the substantial
  possibility that, on or after the date of enactment of this Act, a foreign
  country has used chemical or biological weapons, the President shall,
  within 60 days of the receipt of such information by the United States
  Government, make a determination as to whether that foreign country, on
  or after such date, has used chemical or biological weapons in violation
  of international law or has used lethal chemical or biological weapons
  against its own nationals.
  (2) Not later than 60 days after the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate, upon consultation with the ranking minority member
  of such Committee, or the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
  the House of Representatives, upon consultation with the ranking minority
  member of such Committee, request the President to make a determination as to
  whether or not a foreign country, on or after the date of enactment of this
  Act, has used chemical or biological weapons in violation of international
  law or has used lethal chemical or biological weapons against its own
  nationals, the President shall make such determination and so report in
  writing to the chairmen of such Committees.
  (3) In making the determination under paragraph (1) or (2), the President
  shall consider the following:
  (A) All physical and circumstantial evidence available bearing on the
  possible use of such weapons.
  (B) All information provided by alleged victims, witnesses, and independent
  observers.
  (C) The extent of the availability of the weapons in question to the
  purported user.
  (D) All official and unofficial statements bearing on the possible use of
  such weapons.
  (E) Whether, and to what extent, the country in question is willing to
  honor a request from the Secretary General of the United Nations to grant
  timely access to a United Nations fact-finding team to investigate the
  possibility of chemical or biological weapons use or to grant such access
  to other legitimate outside parties.
  (b) SANCTIONS- In the event of a Presidential determination under subsection
  (a) that, on or after the date of enactment of this Act, a foreign country
  has used chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law
  or has used lethal chemical or biological weapons against its own nationals,
  then the President shall--
  (1) terminate assistance to that country under the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961, except for urgent humanitarian assistance, or for the purpose of
  purchasing food or other agricultural products;
  (2) terminate all foreign military sales financing under the Arms Export
  Control Act with respect to that country;
  (3) terminate United States Government sales to that country of any defense
  articles or defense services;
  (4) prohibit the issuance of any licenses for the export to that country
  of any item on the United States Munitions List;
  (5) prohibit, under the authorities of section 6 of the Export Administration
  Act of 1979, the export to that country of any goods or technology on the
  control list established pursuant to section 5(c)(1) of that Act;
  (6) oppose, in accordance with section 701 of the International Financial
  Institutions Act, the extension of any loan or financial or technical
  assistance to that country by international financial institutions;
  (7) prohibit the import of any good, commodity, or service from that country;
  (8) deny that country any credit or credit guarantees through the
  Export-Import Bank of the United States;
  (9) prohibit, under the authorities of the International Emergency Economic
  Powers Act, any United States bank from making any loan or providing any
  credit to that country, except for loans or credits for the purpose of
  purchasing food or other agricultural products; and
  (10) terminate, consistent with international law, the landing rights in
  the United States of any airline owned by the government of that country
  at the earliest practicable date.
SEC. 102. WAIVER.
  The President may waive the applicability of some or all of the sanctions
  listed in section 101 with respect to a specific country for a period of
  not to exceed nine months beginning on the date of the determination by
  the President of use by that country of chemical or biological weapons in
  violation of international law, or the use of lethal chemical or biological
  weapons against its own nationals, if he determines that such waiver is
  in the national interest of the United States and so certifies to the
  Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee
  on Foreign Relations of the Senate. Together with such certification,
  the President shall submit in writing a statement containing a detailed
  explanation of the national interest requiring a waiver, which may include
  a classified addendum if necessary.
SEC. 103. NOTIFICATION.
  Not later than five days after he imposes any sanction described in section
  101 against a country or waives under section 102 the applicability of
  any such sanction, the President shall so notify in writing the Speaker of
  the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 104. CONTRACT SANCTITY.
  (a) SANCTIONS NOT APPLIED TO EXISTING CONTRACTS- No sanction described in
  paragraphs (5) through (10) of section 101 shall apply to any activity
  pursuant to any contract or international agreement entered into before
  the date of the appropriate presidential determination under section 101(a)
  unless the President determines, on a case-by-case basis, that to so apply
  such sanction would prevent the performance of a contract or agreement
  that would have the effect of assisting a country in using chemical or
  biological weapons in violation of international law or in using lethal
  chemical or biological weapons against its own nationals.
  (b) SANCTIONS APPLIED TO EXISTING CONTRACTS- The sanctions described in
  paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of section 101 shall apply to contracts
  and agreements, without regard to the date such contracts or agreements were
  entered into, except that such sanctions shall not apply to any contract
  or agreement entered into before the date of the appropriate presidential
  determination under section 101(a) if the President determines that the
  application of such sanction would be detrimental to the national security
  interests of the United States.
SEC. 105. REMOVAL OF SANCTIONS.
  The President may remove the sanctions imposed pursuant to section 101 of
  this Act if the President determines and so certifies to the Speaker of
  the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate that the country under sanction--
  (1) has renounced any use of chemical or biological weapons in violation
  of international law, or any use of lethal chemical or biological weapons
  against its own nationals, and has provided reliable assurances to that
  effect; and
  (2) has made satisfactory restitution to those affected in its earlier
  use of chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law
  or in its earlier use of lethal chemical or biological weapons against
  its own nationals.
SEC. 106. PRESIDENTIAL REPORTS.
  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and every
  12 months thereafter, the President shall submit to the Speaker of the
  House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate, a report--
  (1) detailing efforts by countries or subnational groups that threaten United
  States security interests or regional stability (including efforts by Iran,
  Iraq, Libya, and Syria and other developing countries or subnational groups)
  to acquire the materials and technology to develop, produce, stockpile, and
  deliver chemical and biological weapons, together with an assessment of the
  present and future capabilities of such countries or subnational groups to
  develop, produce, stockpile, and deliver chemical and biological weapons; and
  (2) describing the degree to which any country or foreign person has aided
  or abetted the government of any country or a subnational group to engage
  in any activity in connection with the acquisition of any such chemical
  or biological weapon.
To the extent practicable, reports submitted pursuant to this section
should be based on unclassified information. Portions of each such report
may be classified.
SEC. 107. MULTILATERAL EFFORTS.
  The President is urged--
  (1) to continue close cooperation with others in the Australia Group in
  support of its current efforts and in devising additional means to monitor
  and control the supply of chemicals applicable to weapons production to
  Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Libya--countries that currently support or have
  recently supported acts of international terrorism;
  (2) to work closely with other countries also capable of supplying equipment,
  materials, and technology with particular applicability to chemical
  or biological weapons production to devise the most effective controls
  possible on the transfer of such materials, equipment, and technology;
  (3) to seek agreements with countries that produce ballistic missiles
  suitable for carrying chemical or biological warheads that would prevent
  the transfer of such missiles; and
  (4) to take the initiative in pressing for early conclusion of an
  international agreement banning the development, production, and stockpiling
  of chemical weapons.
SEC. 108. UNITED NATIONS INVOLVEMENT.
  The President is urged to give full support to--
  (1) the United Nations Security Council, in furtherance of Security
  Council Resolution 620, adopted August 26, 1988, in developing sanctions
  comparable to those enumerated in section 101 of this Act, to be imposed in
  the event that any country uses chemical or biological weapons in violation
  of international law; and
  (2) the creation of an effective multilateral means of monitoring and
  reporting regularly on commerce in chemical equipment, materials, and
  technology applicable to the attainment of a chemical or biological
  weapons capability.
TITLE II--MEASURES TO PREVENT THE PROLIFERATION OF CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL
WEAPONS
SEC. 201. MULTILATERAL EFFORTS.
  It is the policy of the United States to seek multilaterally coordinated
  efforts with other countries to control the proliferation of chemical and
  biological weapons.
SEC. 202. EXPORT CONTROLS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The President shall--
  (1) use the authorities of the Arms Export Control Act to control the
  export of those defense articles and defense services, and
  (2) use the authorities of the Export Administration Act of 1979 to control
  the export of those goods and technologies,
that the President determines would assist a country in acquiring the
capability to develop, produce, stockpile, deliver, or use chemical or
biological weapons.
  (b) EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT- Section 6 of the Export Administration Act
  of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2405) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(q) CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS- A validated license shall be required
  under this section for the export of any goods or technology that the
  President determines would assist a country in acquiring the capability to
  develop, produce, stockpile, deliver, or use chemical or biological weapons,
  unless the destination of such export is a country with whose government the
  United States has entered into bilateral or multilateral arrangements for
  the control of chemical or biological weapons related goods or technology.'.
SEC. 203. SANCTIONS AGAINST CERTAIN FOREIGN PERSONS.
  (a) DETERMINATION BY THE PRESIDENT-
  (1) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS- The President, subject to subsection (d),
  shall impose on a foreign person the sanctions under subsection (b) if the
  President determines that the foreign person, on or after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, has knowingly and substantially contributed to the
  efforts to use, develop, produce, stockpile, otherwise acquire chemical
  or biological weapons by any country that the President has determined
  has at any time after January 1, 1980--
  (A) used chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law;
  (B) used lethal chemical or biological weapons against its own nationals;
  (C) made substantial preparations to do the activities described in clause
  (A) or (B); or
  (D) been designated pursuant to section 6(j) of the Export Administration
  Act of 1979 as a country which supports international terrorism.
  (2) CONSULTATIONS WITH AND ACTIONS BY GOVERNMENT OF JURISDICTION- In
  the event the President has consulted with the government with primary
  jurisdiction over that foreign person involved in the activities cited
  in paragraph (1), the President may decide not to impose sanctions if he
  has determined and certified to the Congress that such government has
  taken specific and effective actions, including appropriate penalties,
  to terminate the involvement of the foreign person in such activities.
  (3) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The President shall report to the Congress, not
  later than 30 days after making a determination under paragraph (1),
  on the status of consultations with the appropriate government under
  paragraph (2), and the basis for any determination under paragraph (2)
  that such government has taken specific corrective actions.
  (b) SANCTIONS- The sanctions to be imposed on a foreign person under
  subsection (a) are the following:
  (1) PROCUREMENT SANCTION- The United States Government shall not procure,
  or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any goods or services
  from that foreign person.
  (2) IMPORT SANCTION- The importation into the United States of products
  produced by that foreign person is prohibited.
  (c) TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS- A sanction imposed on a foreign person under
  this section shall cease to apply to that foreign person after two years
  if the President determines and certifies to the Congress that the foreign
  person has ceased all activities described in subsection (a)(1).
  (d) EXCEPTIONS- The President shall not be required under this section to
  apply sanctions--
  (1) in the case of procurement of defense articles or defense services--
  (A) under existing contracts or subcontracts, including the exercise of
  options for production quantities to satisfy United States operational
  military requirements;
  (B) if the President determines that the person or other entity to which the
  sanctions would otherwise be applied is a sole source supplier of the defense
  articles or services, that the defense articles or services are essential,
  and that alternative sources are not readily or reasonably available; or
  (C) if the President determines that such articles or services are essential
  to the national security under defense coproduction agreements;
  (2) to products or services provided under contracts entered into before
  the date on which the President publishes his intention to impose sanctions;
  (3) to--
  (A) spare parts,
  (B) component parts, but not finished products, essential to United States
  products or production, or
  (C) routine servicing and maintenance of products, to the extent that
  alternative sources are not readily or reasonably available;
  (4) to information and technology not directly useful for the development,
  production, or stockpiling of chemical or biological weapons; or
  (5) to medical or other humanitarian items.
SEC. 204. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this Act--
  (1) the term `foreign person' means--
  (A) an individual who is not a citizen of the United States or an alien
  admitted for permanent residence to the United States; or
  (B) a corporation, partnership, or other entity, including any parent or
  subsidiary entity thereof, which is created or organized under the laws
  of a foreign country or which has its principal place of business outside
  the United States; and
  (2) the terms `defense article' and `defense service' have the same meanings
  as are given to such terms by paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, of
  section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act.
  Amend the title so as to read: `A bill to impose sanctions, and to encourage
  international sanctions, against countries that use chemical or biological
  weapons in violation of international law or use lethal chemical or
  biological weapons against their own nationals, and for other purposes.'.
S 195 RS----2
S 195 RS----3
S 195 RS----4