Calendar No. 255
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1539
[Report No. 102-117]
[Report No. 102-172]
A BILL
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1992 for intelligence activities of
the United States Government, the Intelligence Community Staff, and the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.
October 3 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 19), 1991
Reported with amendments
S 1539 RS2
Calendar No. 255
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1539
[Report No. 102-117]
[Report No. 102-172]
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1992 for intelligence activities of
the United States Government, the Intelligence Community Staff, and the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 24 (legislative day, JULY 8), 1991
Mr. BOREN, from the Select Committee on Intelligence, reported the following
original bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Armed
Services for the thirty-day period provided in section 3(b) of Senate
Resolution 400, Ninety-fourth Congress, except that if such Committee fails
to report such bill within the thirty-day limit, such Committee shall be
automatically discharged from further consideration of such bill in accordance
with that section
October 3 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 19), 1991
Reported by Mr. NUNN, with amendments
[Insert the part printed in italic]
A BILL
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1992 for intelligence activities of
the United States Government, the Intelligence Community Staff, and the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal
  Year 1992'.
TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1992 for
  the conduct of the intelligence activities of the following elements of
  the United States Government:
  (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
  (2) The Department of Defense.
  (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
  (4) The National Security Agency.
  (5) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the
  Department of the Air Force.
  (6) The Department of State.
  (7) The Department of Treasury.
  (8) The Department of Energy.
  (9) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  (10) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.
  (a) AMOUNTS AND PERSONNEL CEILINGS- The amounts authorized to be appropriated
  under section 101, and the authorized personnel ceilings as of September
  30, 1992, for the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements
  listed in such section, are those specified in the classified Schedule
  of Authorizations prepared to accompany S. 1539 of the One Hundred Second
  Congress.
  (b) AVAILABILITY OF THE SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS- The Schedule of
  Authorizations described in subsection (a) shall be made available to the
  Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives
  and to the President. The President shall provide for suitable distribution
  of the Schedule, or of appropriate portions of the Schedule, within the
  executive branch.
SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.
  The Director of Central Intelligence may authorize employment of civilian
  personnel in excess of the numbers for such personnel authorized for
  fiscal year 1992 under sections 102 and 202 of this Act whenever he
  determines that such action is necessary for the performance of important
  intelligence functions, except that such number may not, for any element
  of the Intelligence Community, exceed 2 percent of the number of civilian
  personnel authorized under such section for such element. The Director of
  Central Intelligence shall promptly notify the Permanent Select Committee
  on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee
  on Intelligence of the Senate whenever he exercises the authority granted
  by this section.
SEC. 104. PRESIDENTIAL BUDGET SUBMISSION.
  Section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(29) a separate, unclassified statement of the aggregate amount
  of expenditures for the previous fiscal year, and the aggregate amount
  of funds requested to be appropriated for the fiscal year for which the
  budget is submitted, for intelligence and intelligence-related activities.'.
SEC. 105. FUNDING OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
  Section 502 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
  `(c) Any bill reported by a committee of conference of the Congress
  which authorizes funds to be appropriated for all intelligence and
  intelligence-related activities of the United States shall contain an
  unclassified statement of the aggregate amount of such funds authorized
  to be appropriated.'.
SEC. 106. EFFECTIVE DATE OF SECTIONS 104 AND 105.
  The amendments made by sections 104 and 105 shall take effect on the date
  of the enactment of an Act authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 1993
  for the conduct of intelligence activities of all of the elements of the
  United States Government referred to in section 101.
TITLE II--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community
  Staff for fiscal year 1992 $28,832,000, of which amount $6,566,000 shall
  be available for the Security Evaluation Office.
SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF PERSONNEL END-STRENGTH.
  (a) AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL LEVEL- The Intelligence Community Staff is
  authorized 240 full-time personnel as of September 30, 1992, including 50
  full-time personnel who are authorized to serve in the Security Evaluation
  Office. Such personnel of the Intelligence Community Staff may be permanent
  employees of the Intelligence Community Staff or personnel detailed from
  other elements of the United States Government.
  (b) REPRESENTATION OF INTELLIGENCE ELEMENTS- During fiscal year 1992,
  personnel of the Intelligence Community Staff shall be selected so as
  to provide appropriate representation from elements of the United States
  Government engaged in intelligence and intelligence-related activities.
  (c) REIMBURSEMENT- During fiscal year 1992, any officer or employee of
  the United States or a member of the Armed Forces who is detailed to the
  Intelligence Community staff from another element of the United States
  Government shall be detailed on a reimbursable basis, except that any such
  officer, employee, or member may be detailed on a nonreimbursable basis for
  a period of less than one year for the performance of temporary functions
  as required by the Director of Central Intelligence.
SEC. 203. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF ADMINISTERED IN SAME MANNER AS CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
  During fiscal year 1992, activities and personnel of the Intelligence
  Community Staff shall be subject to the provisions of the National Security
  Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) and the Central Intelligence Agency
  Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et seq.) in the same manner as activities and
  personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency are subject to those provisions.
TITLE III--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement and Disability Fund $164,100,000 for fiscal year 1992.
SEC. 302. SURVIVOR BENEFITS FOR CHILDREN WHO HAVE A SURVIVING PARENT.
  (a) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR OTHER THAN FORMER SPOUSES- Section 221 of
  the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees
  (50 U.S.C. 403 note) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking out `wife or husband and by a child
  or children, in addition to the annuity payable to the surviving wife or
  husband, there shall be paid to or on behalf of each' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `spouse or a former spouse who is the natural or adoptive
  parent of a surviving child of the annuitant, there shall be paid to or
  on behalf of that surviving';
  (2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking out `wife or husband but by a child
  or children, each surviving child shall be paid' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `spouse or a former spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent
  of a surviving child of the annuitant, there shall be paid to or on behalf
  of that surviving child';
  (3) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
  `(d) On the death of the surviving spouse or former spouse or termination
  of the annuity of a child, the annuity of any remaining child or children
  shall be recomputed and paid as though the spouse, former spouse, or child
  had not survived the participant. If the annuity to a surviving child who
  has not been receiving an annuity is initiated or resumed, the annuities
  of any other children shall be recomputed and paid from that date as though
  the annuities to all currently eligible children were then being initiated.';
  (4) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(q) For purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `former spouse' includes any former wife or husband of
  the participant, regardless of the length of marriage or the amount of
  creditable service completed by the participant; and
  `(2) the term `spouse' has the same meaning given the terms `widow' and
  `widower' in section 204(b).'; and
  (5) in subsection (e), by striking out `under paragraph (c) or (d) of this
  section, or (c) or (d)' and inserting in lieu thereof `under subsection
  (c) of this section, or subsection (c) or (d)'.
  (b) DEATH IN SERVICE- Section 232 of the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (50 U.S.C. 403 note)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c)--
  (A) by striking out `wife or a husband and a child or children, each' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `spouse or a former spouse who is the natural
  or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant, that';
  (B) by striking out `section 221(c)(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `subsections (c)(1) and (d) of section 221'; and
  (C) by striking out the last sentence;
  (2) in subsection (d)--
  (A) by striking out `wife or husband, but by a child or children, each'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `spouse or a former spouse who is the nature
  or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant, that';
  (B) by striking out `section 221(c)(2)' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `subsections (c)(2) and (d) of section 221'; and
  (C) by striking out the last sentence; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(e) For purposes of subsections (c) and (d)--
  `(1) the term `former spouse' includes any former wife or husband of
  the participant, regardless of the length of marriage or the amount of
  creditable service completed by the participant; and
  `(2) the term `spouse' has the same meaning given the terms `widow' and
  `widower' in section 204(b).'.
SEC. 303. 18-MONTH PERIOD TO ELECT A SURVIVOR ANNUITY.
  (a) Section 221 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964
  for Certain Employees (50 U.S.C. 403 note) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (q) (as added by subsection (a)) as
  subsection (r); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (p) the following new subsection:
  `(q)(1)(A) A participant or former participant--
  `(i) who, at the time of retirement, is married, and
  `(ii) who elects at such time (in accordance with subsection (b)) to
  waive a survivor annuity for the spouse, may, during the 18-month period
  beginning on the date of the retirement of such participant, elect to have
  a reduction under subsection (b) of this section made in the annuity of the
  participant (or in such portion thereof as the participant may designate)
  in order to provide a survivor annuity for such spouse of the participant.
  `(B) A participant or former participant--
  `(i) who, at the time of retirement, is married, and
  `(ii) who, at such time designates (in accordance with subsection (b))
  that a portion of the annuity of such participant is to be used as the
  base for a survivor annuity, may, during the 18-month period beginning on
  the date of the retirement of such participant, elect to have a greater
  portion of the annuity of such participant so used.
  `(2)(A) An election under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) of this
  subsection shall not be considered effective unless the amount specified
  in subparagraph (B) is deposited into the fund before the expiration of
  the applicable 18-month period under paragraph (1).
  `(B) The amount to be deposited with respect to an election under this
  subsection is an amount equal to the sum of--
  `(i) the additional cost to the system which is associated with providing
  a survivor annuity under subsection (b) and results from such election,
  taking into account (I) the difference (for the period between the date on
  which the annuity of the participant or former participant commences and
  the date of the election) between the amount paid to such participant or
  former participant under this title and the amount which would have been
  paid if such election had been made at the time the participant or former
  participant applied for the annuity, and (II) the costs associated with
  providing for the later election; and
  `(ii) interest on the additional cost determined under clause (i), computed
  using the interest rate specified or determined under section 8334(e) of
  title 5, United States Code, for the calendar year in which the amount to
  be deposited is determined.
  `(3) An election by a participant or former participant under this
  subsection voids prospectively any election previously made in the case
  of such participant under subsection (b).
  `(4) An annuity which is reduced in connection with an election under
  this subsection shall be reduced by the same percentage reductions as
  were in effect at the time of the retirement of the participant or former
  participant whose annuity is so reduced.
  `(5) Rights and obligations resulting from the election of a reduced annuity
  under this subsection shall be the same as the rights and obligations which
  would have resulted had the participant involved elected such annuity at
  the time of retiring.
  `(6) The Director shall, on an annual basis, inform each participant who
  is eligible to make an election under this subsection of the right to make
  such election and the procedures and deadlines applicable to such election.'.
  (b)(1) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect three months
  after the date of enactment of this Act.
  (2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the amendment made by
  subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to participants and former
  participants who retire before, on, or after such amendment first takes
  effect.
  (B) The provisions of paragraph (1)(B) of section 221(q) of the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (as added
  by subsection (a)(2) of this section) shall apply to participants and
  former participants who retire before the date on which the amendments
  made by subsection (a) first takes effect. For the purpose of applying
  such provisions to these annuitants--
  (i) the 18-month period referred to in section 221(q)(1)(B) of such Act
  shall be considered to begin on the date on which the amendments made by
  subsection (a) first becomes effective; and
  (ii) the amount referred to in paragraph (2) of section 221(q) of such
  Act shall be computed without regard to the provisions of subparagraph
  (B)(ii) of such paragraph (relating to interest).
SEC. 304. WAIVER OF THIRTY-MONTH APPLICATION REQUIREMENT.
  (a) WAIVER- Section 224(c)(2)(A) of the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (50 U.S.C. 403 note) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: `The Director may
  waive the 30-month application requirement under this subparagraph in any
  case in which the Director determines that the circumstances so warrant.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by this section shall be effective
  as of October 1, 1986.
SEC. 305. REIMBURSEMENT FOR DISABILITY EXAMS--DIRECTOR'S DISCRETION.
  Section 231(b)(1) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964
  for Certain Employees, as amended (50 U.S.C. 403 note), is amended in the
  sixth sentence by striking `shall' and inserting in lieu thereof `may'.
SEC. 306. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO SECTION ON PREVIOUS SPOUSES OF CIARDS
PARTICIPANTS.
  (a) SURVIVOR ANNUITIES FOR PREVIOUS SPOUSES- Section 226 of the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (50
  U.S.C. 403 note) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking out `whose retirement or disability or FECA (chapter 81
  of title 5, United States Code) annuity commences after the effective date
  of this section';
  (B) by striking out `applicable to spouses' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `applicable to former spouses (as defined in section 8331(23) of title 5,
  United States Code)'; and
  (C) by striking out `married for at least nine months with service creditable
  under section 8332 of title 5, United States Code' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `as prescribed by the Civil Service Retirement Spouse Equity Act
  of 1984'; and
  (2) in subsections (a) and (b), by striking out `the effective date of this
  section' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `September
  29, 1988'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the
  amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment
  of this Act.
  (2) The amendments made by subparagraphs (B) and (C) of subsection (a)(1)
  shall be deemed to have become effective as of September 29, 1988.
  (3) The amendment made by subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(1) shall be
  deemed to have become effective as of September 30, 1990, and shall apply
  in the case of annuitants whose divorce occurs on or after such date.
SEC. 307. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO MANDATORY RETIREMENT PROVISION UNDER CIARDS.
  Section 235(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964
  for Certain Employees (50 U.S.C. 403 note) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by striking `grade GS-18 or above' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `of level 4 or above of the Senior Intelligence Service
  pay schedule'; and
  (2) in the second sentence, by striking `less than GS-18' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `that of level 4 of the Senior Intelligence Service pay
  schedule'.
SEC. 308. EXCLUSION OF CIA FOREIGN NATIONAL EMPLOYEES FROM CERTAIN CSRS
PROVISIONS AND FROM FERS.
  (a) DEFINITION OF `EMPLOYEE'- Section 8331(1) of title 5, United States
  Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `or' at the end of clause (xii);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (xii) and inserting in
  lieu thereof `; or'; and
  (3) by adding after clause (xii) the following: `(xiii) a foreign national
  employee of the Central Intelligence Agency whose services are performed
  outside the United States and who is appointed after December 31, 1989.'.
  (b) PARTICIPATION IN THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN- Section 8351 of title 5,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
  `(d) A foreign national employee of the Central Intelligence Agency whose
  services are performed outside the United States shall be ineligible to
  make an election under this section.'.
  (c) FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM- Section 8402(c) of title 5, United
  States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(7) The Director of Central Intelligence may exclude from the operation
  of this chapter a Central Intelligence Agency foreign national employee
  who is a permanent resident alien.'.
  (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be
  effective as of January 1, 1990.
  (2) The amendments made by subsections (b) and (c) shall be effective as
  of January 1, 1987.
  (3) Any refund which becomes payable as a result of the effective dates
  made by this subsection shall, to the extent that such refund involves an
  individual's contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund (established under
  section 8437 of title 5, United States Code), be adjusted to reflect any
  earnings attributable thereto.
SEC. 309. CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS TO QUALIFIED FORMER  SPOUSE PROVISIONS
UNDER FERS.
  (a) SPECIAL RULES FOR FORMER SPOUSES- Section 304 of the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (50 U.S.C. 403 note)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SPECIAL RULES FOR FORMER SPOUSES
  `SEC. 304. (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section,
  the provisions of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, including
  subsections (d) and (e) of section 8435 of such title, shall apply in the
  case of an officer or employee of the Agency who is subject to chapter 84
  of title 5, United States Code, and who has a former spouse (as defined
  in section 8401(12) of title 5, United States Code) or a qualified former
  spouse.
  `(b) For purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `employee' means an officer or employee of the Agency who
  is subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, including one
  referred to in section 302(a) of this Act;
  `(2) the term `qualified former spouse' means a former spouse of an
  employee who was divorced from the employee after November 15, 1982 and
  who was married to the employee for at least 10 years during periods of
  service by the employee which are creditable under section 8411 of title 5,
  at least five years of which were spent outside the United States by both
  the employee and the former spouse during the employee's service with the
  Central Intelligence Agency;
  `(3) the term `pro rata share' means the percentage that is equal to (A)
  the number of days of the marriage of the qualified former spouse to the
  employee during the employee's periods of creditable service under chapter
  84 of title 5 divided by (B) the total number of days of the employee's
  creditable service;
  `(4) the term `spousal agreement' means any written agreement (properly
  authenticated as determined by the Director) between an employee and the
  employee's spouse or qualified former spouse that has not been modified
  by court order; and
  `(5) the term `court order' means any court decree of divorce, annulment or
  legal separation, or any court order or court-approved property settlement
  agreement incident to such court decree of divorce, annulment or legal
  separation.
  `(c)(1)(A) Unless otherwise expressly provided by any spousal agreement
  or court order governing disposition of benefits payable under subchapter
  II or subchapter V of chapter 84 of title 5, a qualified former spouse
  of an employee is entitled to a share (determined under subparagraph (B))
  of all benefits otherwise payable to such employee under subchapter II or
  subchapter V of chapter 84 of title 5.
  `(B) The share referred to in subparagraph (A) equals--
  `(i) 50 percent, if the qualified former spouse was  married to the employee
  throughout the entire period of the employees service which is creditable
  under chapter 84 of title 5; or
  `(ii) a pro rata share of 50 percent, if the qualified former spouse was
  not married to the employee throughout such creditable service.
  `(2) The benefits payable to an employee under subchapter II of chapter
  84 of title 5 shall include, for purposes of this subsection, any annuity
  supplement payable to such employee under sections 8421 and 8421a of title 5.
  `(3) A qualified former spouse shall not be entitled to any benefit under
  this subsection if, before commencement of any benefit, the qualified
  former spouse remarries before becoming 55 years of age.
  `(4)(A) the benefits of a qualified former spouse under this subsection
  commence on--
  `(i) the day the employee upon whose service the benefits are based becomes
  entitled to the benefits; or
  `(ii) the first day of the second month beginning after the date on which the
  Director receives written notice of the court order of spousal agreement,
  together with such additional information or documentation as the Director
  may prescribe;
whichever is later.
  `(B) The benefits of such former spouse and the right thereto terminate on--
  `(i) the last day of the month before the qualified former spouse remarries
  before 55 years of age or dies; or
  `(ii) the date the retired employee's benefits terminate (except in the
  case of benefits subject to paragraph (5)(B)).
  `(5)(A) Any reduction in payments to a retired employee as a result of
  payments to a qualified former spouse under this subsection shall be
  disregarded in calculating--
  `(i) the survivor annuity for any spouse, former spouse (qualified or
  otherwise), or other survivor under chapter 84 of title 5, and
  `(ii) any reduction in the annuity of the retired employee to provide
  survivor benefits under subsection (d) of this section or under sections
  8442 or 8445 of title 5.
  `(B) If a retired employee whose annuity is reduced under subparagraph (A)
  is recalled to service under section 302(c) of this Act, the salary of
  that annuitant shall be reduced by the same amount as the annuity would
  have been reduced if it had continued. Amounts equal to the reductions
  under this subparagraph shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United
  States to the credit of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
  `(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (4), in the case of any qualified
  former spouse of a disability annuitant--
  `(A) the annuity of such former spouse shall commence on the date the
  employee would qualify, on the basis of his or her creditable service,
  for benefits under subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, or on the date
  the disability annuity begins, whichever is later; and
  `(B) the amount of the annuity of the qualified former spouse shall be
  calculated on the basis of the benefits for which the employee would
  otherwise qualify under subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5.
  `(7) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(B), in the case of an employee who has
  elected to become subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
  the share of such employee's qualified former spouse shall equal the sum of--
  `(A) 50 percent of the employee's annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83
  of title 5, United States Code, or under title II of this Act (computed in
  accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System
  Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act), multiplied by the proportion that
  the number of days of marriage during the period of the employee's creditable
  service before the effective date of the election to transfer bears to
  the employee's total creditable service before such effective date; and
  `(B) if applicable, 50 percent of the employee's benefits under chapter 84
  of title 5, United States Code, or section 302(a) of this Act (computed in
  accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System
  Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act), multiplied by the proportion that
  the number of days of marriage during the period of the employee's creditable
  service on and after the effective date of the election to transfer bears
  to the employee's total creditable service after such effective date.
  `(8) For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, payments to a
  qualified former spouse under this subsection shall be treated as income
  to the qualified former spouse and not to the employee.
   `(d)(1)(A) Subject to an election under section 8416(a) of title 5,
   United States Code, and unless otherwise expressly provided by any spousal
   agreement or court order governing survivor benefits payable under this
   subsection to a qualified former spouse, such former spouse is entitled to
   a share, determined under subparagraph (B), of all survivor benefits that
   would otherwise be payable under subchapter IV of chapter 84 of title 5,
   to an eligible surviving spouse of the employee.
  `(B) The share referred to in subparagraph (A) equals--
  `(i) 100 percent, if the qualified former spouse was married to the employee
  throughout the entire period of the employee's service which is creditable
  under chapter 84 of title 5; or
  `(ii) a pro rata share of 100 percent, if the qualified former spouse was
  not married to the employee throughout such creditable services.
  `(2)(A) The survivor benefits payable under this subsection to a qualified
  former spouse shall include the amount payable under section 8442(b)(1)(A)
  of title 5, and any supplementary annuity under section 8442(f) of title
  5, that would be payable if such former spouse were a widow or widower
  entitled to an annuity under such section of title 5.
  `(B) Any calculation under section 8442(f) of title 5, United States
  Code, of the supplementary annuity payable to a widow or widower of an
  employee referred to in section 302(a) of this Act shall be based on an
  `assumed CIARDS annuity' rather than an `assumed CSRS annuity' as stated
  in section 8442(f) of such title. For the purpose of this subparagraph,
  the term `assumed CIARDS annuity' means the amount of the survivor annuity
  to which the widow or widower would be entitled under title II of this Act
  based on the service of the deceased annuitant determined under section
  8442(f)(5) of such title.
  `(3) A qualified former spouse shall not be entitled to any benefit under
  this subsection if, before commencement of any benefit, the qualified
  former spouse remarries before becoming 55 years of age.
  `(4) If the survivor annuity payable under this subsection to a surviving
  qualified former spouse is terminated because of remarriage before becoming
  age 55, the annuity shall be restored at the same rate commencing on the
  date such remarriage is dissolved by death, divorce, or annulment, if--
  `(A) such former spouse elects to receive this survivor annuity instead
  of any other survivor benefit to which such former spouse may be entitled
  under subchapter IV of chapter 84 of title 5, or under another retirement
  system for Government employees by reason of the remarriage; and
  `(B) any lump sum paid on termination of the annuity is returned to the
  Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
  `(5)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a modification in a court
  order or spousal agreement to adjust a qualified former spouse's share of the
  survivor benefits shall not be effective if issued after the retirement or
  death of the employee, former employee, or annuitant, whichever occurs first.
  `(B) In the case of a post-retirement divorce or annulment, a modification
  referred to in subparagraph (A) shall not be effective if issued--
  `(i) more than a year after the date the decree of divorce or annulment
  becomes final, or
  `(ii) after the death of the annuitant,
whichever occurs first.
  `(C) To the extent a modification under subparagraph (B) increases a
  qualified former spouse's share of the survivor benefits, the annuitant
  shall pay a deposit computed in accordance with the provisions of section
  8418 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(6) After a qualified former spouse of a retired employee remarries before
  becoming age 55 or dies, the reduction in the retired employee's annuity for
  the purpose of providing a survivor annuity for such former spouse shall be
  terminated. The annuitant may elect, in a signed writing received by the
  Director within two years after the qualified former spouse's remarriage
  or death, to continue the reduction in order to provide or increase the
  survivor annuity for such annuitant's spouse. The annuitant making such
  election shall pay a deposit in accordance with the provisions of section
  8418 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(7) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(B), in the case of an employee who has
  elected to become subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
  the share of such employee's qualified former spouse to survivor benefits
  shall equal the sum of--
  `(A) 50 percent of the employee's annuity under subchapter III of chapter
  83 of title 5 or under title II of this Act (computed in accordance with
  section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986
  or section 307 of this Act), multiplied by the proportion that the number
  of days of marriage during the period of the employee's creditable service
  before the effective date of the election to transfer bears to the employee's
  total creditable service before such effective date; and
  `(B) if applicable, 50 percent of--
  `(i) the employee's annuity under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
  or section 302(a) of this Act (computed in accordance with section 302(a)
  of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 or section 307 of
  this Act), plus
  `(ii) the survivor benefits referred to in subsection (d)(2)(A), multiplied
  by the proportion that the number of days of marriage during the period
  of the employee's creditable service on and after the effective date of
  the election to transfer bears to the employee's total creditable service
  after such effective date.
  `(e) An employee may not make any election or modification of election
  under section 8417 or 8418 of title 5, United States Code, or any other
  section relating to the employee's annuity under subchapter II of chapter
  84 of title 5, United States Code, that would diminish the entitlement of
  a qualified former spouse to any benefit granted to such former spouse by
  this section or by court order or spousal agreement.
  `(f) Whenever an employee or former employee becomes entitled to receive
  the lump-sum credit under section 8424(a) of title 5, United States Code,
  a share (determined under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section) of that
  lump-sum credit shall be paid to any qualified former spouse of such
  employee, unless otherwise expressly provided by any spousal agreement or
  court order governing disposition of the lump-sum credit involved.
  `(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) in the case of an employee
  who has elected to become subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States
  Code, the provisions of sections 224 and 225 of this Act shall apply to
  such employees former spouse (as defined in section 204(b)(4) of this Act)
  who would otherwise be eligible for benefits under such sections 224 and
  225 but for the employee having elected to become subject to such chapter.
  `(2) For the purpose of computing such former spouse's benefits under
  sections 224 and 225 of this Act--
  `(A) the retirement benefits shall be equal to the amount determined under
  subsection (c)(7)(A) of this section; and
  `(B) the survivor benefits shall be equal to 55 percent of the full amount
  of the employee's annuity computed in accordance with section 302(a) of the
  Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act.
  `(3) Benefits provided pursuant to this subsection shall be payable from
  the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this
  subsection, the amendments made by this section shall be deemed to have
  become effective as of January 1, 1987.
  (2) Subsection (g) of section 304 of the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended by this section,
  shall be deemed to have become effective as of December 7, 1987.
SEC. 310. ELIMINATION OF OVERSEAS SERVICE REQUIREMENT FOR FORMER SPOUSES.
  (a) ELIGIBILITY- Section 204(b)(4) of the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (60 U.S.C. 403 note) is amended
  by striking out `at least five years of which were spent outside the United
  States by both the participant and the former spouse' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `at least five years of which were spent by the participant outside
  the United States or otherwise in a position whose duties qualified him or
  her for designation by the Director as a participant pursuant to section
  203 of this Act'.
  (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
  to a former husband or wife of a participant or former participant whose
  divorce from the participant or former participant became final after the
  date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY LAW.
  Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, and
  other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such additional or
  supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in such compensation
  or benefits authorized by law.
TITLE V--FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. FBI CRITICAL SKILLS SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
  (a) STUDY- The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall conduct
  a study relative to the establishment of an undergraduate training program
  with respect to employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation that is
  similar in purpose, conditions, content, and administration to undergraduate
  training programs administered by the Central Intelligence Agency (under
  section 8 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403j)),
  the National Security Agency (under section 16 of the National Security
  Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402 (note)), and the Defense Intelligence
  Agency (under 10 U.S.C. 1608).
  (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Any program proposed under subsection (a) may
  be implemented only after the Department of Justice and the Office of
  Management and Budget review and approve the implementation of such program.
  (c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Any payment made by the Director of the Federal
  Bureau of Investigation to carry out any program proposed to be established
  under subsection (a) may be made in any fiscal year only to the extent
  that appropriated funds are available for that purpose.
TITLE VI--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. AMENDMENT TO TITLE 5.
  Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended to insert at the
  end thereof the following:
  `Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency'.
TITLE VII--NATIONAL SECURITY SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND GRANTS
SEC. 701. AMENDMENT TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947.
  The National Security Act of 1947 is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following new title:
`TITLE VIII--NATIONAL SECURITY SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND GRANTS'
`SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
  `This title may be cited as the `National Security Education Act of 1991'.
`SEC. 802. FINDINGS.
  `The Congress finds that--
  `(1) the security of the United States is and will continue to depend on
  our Nation's international leadership;
  `(2) United States leadership is and will increasingly be based on our
  Nation's political, economic, as well as military strength around the world;
  `(3) recent changes in the world pose threats of a new kind to
  international stability as Cold War tensions continue to decline while
  economic competition, regional conflicts, terrorist activities, and weapon
  proliferations have dramatically increased;
  `(4) the future national security and economic well-being of the United
  States will substantially depend on the ability of its citizens to
  communicate and compete by knowing the languages and cultures of other
  countries;
  `(5) the Federal Government has a vested interest to ensure that the
  employees within its national security agencies are prepared to meet the
  challenges of this changing international environment;
  `(6) the Federal Government also must address the fact that American
  undergraduate and graduate students are inadequately prepared to meet the
  challenges posed by increasing global interaction among nations; and
  `(7) American colleges and universities must place a new emphasis on
  improving the teaching of foreign languages, regional studies, and
  international studies to help meet such challenges.
`SEC. 803. PURPOSES.
  `It is the purpose of this title--
  `(1) to establish the National Security Education Trust Fund to--
  `(A) provide the necessary resources, accountability, and flexibility to
  meet the Nation's security needs, especially as such needs change over time;
  `(B) increase the quantity, diversity, and quality of teaching and learning
  of subjects in the fields of international studies, area studies, and
  foreign languages deemed to be critical to the Nation's interest;
  `(C) enhance the pool of possible applicants to work in the national
  security agencies of the United States Government; and
  `(D) in conjunction with other Federal programs, expand the international
  experience, knowledge base, and the perspectives on which the United States
  citizenry, government employees, and leaders shall rely; and
  `(2) to permit the Federal Government to advocate the cause of international
  education;
`SEC. 804. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
  `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The National Security Education Board shall conduct a
  program of--
  `(A) awarding scholarships to undergraduate students who are United States
  citizens or resident aliens to enable such students to study abroad,
  for at least 1 semester, in countries identified by the Board as critical
  countries pursuant to section 805(c)(2);
  `(B) awarding fellowships to graduate students who--
  `(i) are United States citizens or resident aliens to enable such students
  to pursue education in the United States in the disciplines of international
  studies, area studies, and foreign languages, that the Board determines
  pursuant to section 805(c)(3) to be critical areas of such disciplines; and
  `(ii) agree to work for the Federal Government or in the field of education,
  in the area of study for which the scholarship was awarded, in accordance
  with the agreement described in paragraph (3); and
  `(C) awarding grants to institutions of higher education to enable such
  institutions to establish, operate, and improve programs in international
  studies, area studies, and foreign languages that the Board determines
  pursuant to section 805(c)(4) to be critical areas of such disciplines.
  `(2) RESERVATIONS- The Board shall have as a goal reserving--
  `(A)  1/3  of the amount available for obligation under section 806(f)(1)
  to award scholarships pursuant to paragraph (1)(A);
  `(B)  1/3  of such amount to award fellowships pursuant to paragraph
  (1)(B); and
  `(C)  1/3  of such amount to award grants pursuant to paragraph (1)(C).
  `(3) AGREEMENT- Each individual receiving a fellowship pursuant to paragraph
  (1)(B) shall enter into an agreement with the Board which shall provide
  assurances that each such individual--
  `(A) shall maintain satisfactory academic progress; and
  `(B) shall agree to work for the Federal Government or in the field of
  education, in the area of study for which the fellowship was awarded, for a
  period determined by the Board which shall at least be equal to the period
  that fellowship assistance was provided under this title and shall not
  exceed 3 times such period, upon completion of such individual's education.
  `(b) CRITERIA AND INFORMATION- The Board shall--
  `(1) develop criteria for awarding scholarships, fellowships, and grants
  under this title; and
  `(2) provide for the wide disbursement of information regarding the
  activities assisted under this title.
  `(c) DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE- The Board shall take into consideration
  providing an equitable geographic distribution of scholarships, fellowships,
  and grants awarded under this title among the various regions of the
  United States.
  `(d) MERIT REVIEW- The Board shall utilize a merit review process in
  awarding scholarships, fellowships, and grants under this title.
  `(e) INFLATION- The amount of scholarships, fellowships, and grants awarded
  under this title shall be annually adjusted for inflation.
`SEC. 805. NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION BOARD.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Defense shall establish a National
  Security Education Board.
  `(b) COMPOSITION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Board shall be composed of the following individuals
  or the representatives of such individuals:
  `(A) The Secretary of Defense, who shall serve as the chairperson of
  the Board.
  `(B) The Secretary of Education.
  `(C) The Secretary of State.
  `(D) The Secretary of Commerce.
  `(E) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
  `(F) The Director of the United States Information Agency.
  `(G) 4 individuals appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
  consent of the Senate, who have expertise in the fields of international,
  language, and area studies education.
  `(2) SPECIAL RULE- Individuals appointed to the Board pursuant to paragraph
  (1)(G) shall be appointed for a period not to exceed 4 years. Such
  individuals shall receive no compensation for service on the Board but
  may receive reimbursement for travel and other necessary expenses.
  `(c) FUNCTIONS- The Board shall--
  `(1) establish qualifications for students and institutions of higher
  education desiring scholarships, fellowships, and grants under this title;
  `(2) identify as the critical countries described in section 804(a)(1)(A)
  those countries that are not emphasized in other United States study abroad
  programs, such as countries in which few United States students are studying;
  `(3) identify as the critical areas within the disciplines described in
  section 804(a)(1)(B) those areas that the Board determines to be critical
  areas of study in which United States students are deficient in learning;
  `(4) identify as critical areas those areas of study described in section
  804(a)(1)(C) in which United States students, educators, and government
  employees are deficient in learning and in which insubstantial numbers of
  United States institutions of higher education provide training; and
  `(5) review the administration of the program assisted under this title.
`SEC. 806. NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION TRUST FUND.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- There is established in the Treasury of the
  United States a trust fund to be known as the `National Security Education
  Trust Fund'. The Fund shall consist of amounts transferred to it pursuant
  to subsection (b) of this section and amounts credited to the Fund under
  subsection (d) of this section.
  `(b) TRANSFER OF AMOUNTS-
  `(1) TRANSFER- The Secretary of Defense is authorized to transfer to the
  Trust Fund $180,000,000 from funds appropriated for fiscal year 1992 pursuant
  to section 101 of the Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1992.
  `(2) RESERVATIONS- From the amounts transferred pursuant to paragraph (1)
  for fiscal year 1992, the Board shall reserve--
  `(A) $15,000,000 to award scholarships pursuant to section 804(a)(1)(A);
  `(B) $10,000,000 to award fellowships pursuant to section 804(a)(1)(B); and
  `(C) $10,000,000 to award grants pursuant to section 804(a)(1)(C).
  `(c) INVESTMENT OF FUND ASSETS- It shall be the duty of the Secretary of
  the Treasury to invest in full the amounts transferred to the Fund. Such
  investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United
  States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by
  the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be acquired on
  original issue at the issue price or by purchase of outstanding obligations
  at the market price. The purposes for which obligations of the United
  States may be issued under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code,
  are hereby extended to authorize the issuance at par of special obligations
  exclusively to the Fund. Such special obligations shall bear interest at a
  rate equal to the average rate of interest, computed as to the end of the
  calendar month next preceding the date of such issue, borne by all marketable
  interest-bearing obligations of the United States then forming a part of
  the public debt, except that where such average rate is not a multiple of
  1/8  of 1 percent, the rate of interest of such special obligations shall be
  the multiple of  1/8  of 1 percent next lower than such average rate. Such
  special obligations shall be issued only if the Secretary of the Treasury
  determines that the purchases of other interest-bearing obligations of
  the United States, or of obligations guaranteed as to both principal and
  interest by the United States or original issue or at the market price,
  is not in the public interest.
  `(d) AUTHORITY TO SELL OBLIGATIONS- Any obligation acquired by the Fund
  (except special obligations issued exclusively to the Fund) may be sold
  by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price, and such special
  obligations may be redeemed at par plus accrued interest.
  `(e) PROCEEDS FROM CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS CREDITED TO FUND- The interest on,
  and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in
  the Fund shall be credited to and form a part of the Fund.
  `(f) OBLIGATIONS FROM THE ACCOUNT- The Board is authorized to obligate such
  sums as are available in the Fund (including any amounts not obligated in
  previous fiscal years) for--
  `(1) awarding scholarships, fellowships, and grants in accordance with
  the provisions of this title; and
  `(2) properly allocable administrative costs of the Federal Government
  for the activities described in this title.
`SEC. 807. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- In order to carry out this title, the Board may--
  `(1) appoint and fix the compensation of such personnel as may be necessary
  to carry out the provisions of this title, except that in no case may
  an employee other than the Executive Secretary be compensated at a rate
  to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 of the General
  Schedule;
  `(2) prescribe such regulations as the Board considers necessary governing
  the manner in which its functions shall be carried out;
  `(3) receive money and other property donated, bequeathed, or devised,
  without condition or restriction other than it be used for the purposes
  of the  Board, and to use, sell, or otherwise dispose of such property
  for the purpose of carrying out its functions;
  `(4) accept and use the services of voluntary and noncompensated personnel;
  `(5) enter into contracts or other arrangements, or make grants, to carry
  out the provisions of this title, and enter into such contracts or other
  arrangements, or make such grants, with the concurrence of two-thirds of
  the members of the Board, without performance or other bonds and without
  regard to section 5 of title 41, United States Code;
  `(6) rent office space in the District of Columbia; and
  `(7) make other necessary expenditures.
  `(b) ANNUAL REPORT- The Board shall submit to the President and to the
  Congress an annual report of its operations under this title. Such report
  shall contain--
  `(1) an analysis of the mobility of students to participate in study
  abroad programs;
  `(2) an analysis of the trends within language, international, and area
  studies, along with a survey of such areas the Board determines are
  receiving inadequate attention;
  `(3) the impact of the Board's activities on such trends; and
  `(4) an evaluation of the impediments to improving such trends.
`SEC. 808. EXECUTIVE SECRETARY.
  `(a) APPOINTMENT BY BOARD- There shall be an Executive Secretary of the
  Board who shall be appointed by the Board. The Executive Secretary shall be
  the chief executive officer of the Board and shall carry out the functions
  of the Board subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. The
  Executive Secretary shall carry out such other functions consistent with
  the provisions of this title as the Board shall prescribe.
  `(b) COMPENSATION- The Executive Secretary of the Board shall be
  compensated at the rate of basic pay payable for employees at level III
  of the Executive Schedule.
`SEC. 809. AUDITS.
  `The activities of the Board under this title may be audited by the General
  Accounting Office under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed
  by the Comptroller General of the United States. Representatives of the
  General Accounting Office shall have access to all books, accounts, records,
  reports, and files and all other papers, things, or property belonging
  to or in use by the Board pertaining to such activities and necessary to
  facilitate the audit.
`SEC. 810. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purpose of this title--
  `(1) the term `Fund' means the National Security Education Trust Fund
  established pursuant to section 806;
  `(2) the term `Board' means the National Security Education Board established
  pursuant to section 805; and
  `(3) the term `institution of higher education' has the same meaning given
  to such term by section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965.'.
TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS
SEC. 801. TRANSPORTATION OF REMAINS OF CERTAIN NSA EMPLOYEES.
  The National Security Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402 note) is amended
  by adding at the end the following new section.
  `SEC. 17. (a) The Director of the National Security Agency may pay the
  expenses referred to in section 5742(b) of title 5, United States Code,
  in the case of any employee of the National Security Agency who dies while
  on a rotational tour of duty within the United States or while in transit
  to or from such tour of duty.
  `(b) For the purposes of this section, the term `rotational tour of duty',
  with respect to an employee, means a permanent change of station involving
  the transfer of the employee from the National Security Agency headquarters
  to another post of duty for a fixed period established by regulation to
  be followed at the end of such period by a permanent change of station
  involving a transfer of the employee back to such headquarters.'.
SEC. 802. MINOR TRANSFERS OF INTELLIGENCE APPROPRIATIONS FOR OPERATIONAL
EMERGENCIES.
  (a) AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER- Title V of the National Security Act of 1947
  (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 503 the
  following new section:
`MINOR TRANSFERS FOR OPERATIONAL EMERGENCIES
  `SEC. 504. (a) In addition to any other transfer authority provided in this
  or any other Act, the Director of Central Intelligence may transfer funds
  appropriated for the Department of Defense for an intelligence agency or
  program within the National Foreign Intelligence Program to another such
  agency or program in order to respond to unforeseen foreign intelligence
  operational emergencies.
  `(b) Funds transferred under this section shall remain available for the same
  purposes, and for the same period, as the appropriation to which transferred.
  `(c) The total amount that may be transferred under this section in any
  fiscal year may not exceed $10,000,000.
  `(d) Funds transferred under this section may not be used to support any
  covert action of the United States.
  `(e)(1) A transfer may not be made under the authority of this section
  until the fifth day after the Director of Central Intelligence submits a
  report on the proposed transfer to the Committees on Appropriations and
  Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Select
  Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee
  on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
  `(2) The report shall include a determination by the Director of Central
  Intelligence that the proposed transfer is necessary to meet a foreign
  intelligence operational emergency.  Each determination shall contain
  all necessary programmatic data, a full description of the emergency,
  and a discussion of the consequences of not responding to the emergency.
  `(3) The Director of Central Intelligence may not submit a transfer report
  under this subsection until the Director has consulted with and obtained
  the concurrence of the head of each department and agency affected by
  the transfer.
  `(f) Not later than 90 days after the date on which a transfer report is
  submitted pursuant to subsection (e), the Director of Central Intelligence
  shall report in a timely fashion to the committees referred to in that
  subsection regarding the results of each foreign intelligence operational
  emergency for which funds were transferred as described in that transfer
  report.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents at the end of the first section
  of such Act is amended by inserting the following after the item relating
  to section 503:
`Sec. 504. Minor transfers for operational emergencies.'.
SEC. 803. CLARIFICATION OF EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
FROM CERCLA DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
  Section 120(j)(2) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
  and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(j)(2)) is amended--
  (1) by striking out `Atomic Energy Act and' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Atomic Energy Act,';
  (2) by inserting after `information,' the following: `and all statutes
  or Executive orders that authorize the protection of specified types of
  unclassified information from disclosure,'; and
  (3) by striking out `classified information' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `such information'.
S 1539 RS----2
S 1539 RS----3
S 1539 RS----4