Calendar No. 117
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1160
[Report No. 101-146]
A BILL
A bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1990 for the Department
of State, the United States Information Agency, the Board for International
Broadcasting, and for other purposes.
June 12 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Read twice and placed on the calendar
S 1160 PCS
Calendar No. 117
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1160
[Report No. 101-46]
A bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1990 for the Department
of State, the United States Information Agency, the Board for International
Broadcasting, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
June 12 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. PELL, from the Committee on Foreign Relations, reported under authority
of the order of the Senate of June 8 (legislative day, January 3), 1989 the
following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar
A BILL
A bill to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1990 for the Department
of State, the United States Information Agency, the Board for International
Broadcasting, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Foreign Relations
  Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1990'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
TITLE I--THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Part A--Authorization of Appropriations; Allocation of Funds
Sec. 101. Administration of foreign affairs.
Sec. 102. Contributions to international organizations and conferences.
Sec. 103. International commissions.
Sec. 104. Migration and refugee assistance.
Sec. 105. The Asia Foundation and other programs.
Sec. 106. Availability of funds.
Part B--Department of State Authorities and Activities; Foreign Missions
Sec. 111. Prohibition on solicitation of funds to further prohibited or
restricted United States Government actions.
Sec. 112. Prohibition on assisting third parties to further prohibited United
States Government actions.
Sec. 113. Authorization of certain operational activities.
Sec. 114. Working capital fund for Office of Foreign Missions.
Sec. 115. Authority of Diplomatic Security Service.
Sec. 116. Fees and reimbursements.
Sec. 117. Acquisition of domestic property as interim step to acquiring
property abroad.
Sec. 118. International center.
Sec. 119. International Boundary and Water Commission.
Sec. 120. Consular officer duties.
Sec. 121. Access to criminal records.
Sec. 122. State Department post offices abroad.
Sec. 123. Opening an American consulate in Bratislava.
Sec. 124. Construction of United States Embassy in Ottawa.
Sec. 125. Report on reorganization of the Department of State.
Sec. 126. Establishment of a Latin American and Caribbean data base.
Part C--Diplomatic Immunity, Reciprocity, and Security
Sec. 131. Exclusion of aliens previously involved in a serious criminal
offense committed in the United States.
Sec. 132. United States-Soviet reciprocity in matters relating to embassies.
Sec. 133. United States-Soviet Embassy Agreement.
Sec. 134. Child care facilities at certain posts abroad.
Sec. 135. State Department contractor exemption to Polygraph Protection Act.
Sec. 136. Use of cleared personnel to ensure secure maintenance and repair
of diplomatic facilities abroad.
Part D--Personnel
Sec. 141. Authority to transfer retirement contributions for Foreign Service
nationals to local plans.
Sec. 142. Disqualification for service on Foreign Service selection boards.
Sec. 143. Separation for cause; judicial review.
Sec. 144. Visiting scholars program for the Foreign Service Institute.
Sec. 145. Credit for service at unhealthful posts.
Sec. 146. Former spouses of United States Information Agency and Agency for
International Development employees.
Sec. 147. Travel, leave, and other benefits.
Sec. 148. Special allowances under title 5, United States Code.
Sec. 149. Grants for institutions and students for training in international
affairs.
Sec. 150. Judicial review of certain Foreign Service grievances.
Sec. 151. Merit-based Foreign Service.
Sec. 152. Protection of the integrity of the legislative process.
Part E--Foreign Language Competence Within the Foreign Service
Sec. 161. Expansion of model foreign language competence posts.
Sec. 162. Report on foreign language entrance requirement for the Foreign
Service.
Sec. 163. Foreign Service promotion panels.
Sec. 164. Language Proficiency in the Employee Evaluation Report.
TITLE II--UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations; allocation of funds.
Sec. 202. Voice of America.
Sec. 203. Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
Sec. 204. National Endowment for Democracy.
Sec. 205. East-West Center.
Sec. 206. Diplomatic construction program.
Sec. 207. Dissemination of information within the United States.
Sec. 208. USIA satellite and television.
Sec. 209. Voice of America hiring practices.
Sec. 210. United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
Sec. 211. Foreign language services.
Sec. 212. Use of fees for United States Information Agency publications and
other programs.
Sec. 213. The J. William Fulbright Scholarship Board.
Sec. 214. Citizen exchanges.
Sec. 215. United States-Soviet exchanges.
Sec. 216. Scholarships for Tibetans.
Sec. 217. Exclusion from gross income of fellowships, scholarships, and
other payments to students, scholars, and participant trainees.
Sec. 218. VOA public service announcements to promote child survival.
Sec. 219. Voice of America broadcasts to Tibet.
Sec. 220. Afghanistan Country Plan.
Sec. 221. Distribution within the United States of United States Information
Agency film entitled `Long Journey Home'.
TITLE III--BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING
Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 302. Procurement of legal services.
Sec. 303. Radio Free Afghanistan.
TITLE IV--INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
Sec. 401. United States membership in International Sugar Organization.
Sec. 402. Reform in budget decision-making procedures of the United Nations
and its specialized agencies.
Sec. 403. Annual report to Congress on voting practices at the United Nations.
Sec. 404. Policy on UNESCO.
Sec. 405. Membership of the Palestinian Liberation Organization in United
Nations agencies.
TITLE V--REFUGEE AND OTHER PROVISIONS
Sec. 501. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees audit requirement.
Sec. 502. Worldwide refugee protection.
Sec. 503. Prohibition on exclusion or deportation of nonresident aliens.
TITLE VI--GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION ACT
Sec. 601. Short title.
Part A--Commercial Debt-For-Nature Exchanges
Sec. 611. Amendment to the Foreign Assistance Act.
Part B--Multilateral Foreign Assistance Coordination
Sec. 621. General policy.
Sec. 622. Policy on negotiations.
Part C--International Debt Exchanges and Environment
Sec. 631. Environmental Policy and International Debt Exchanges.
Sec. 632. Reports.
Part D--Wildlife and Nature Protection
Sec. 641. Elephant protection.
Sec. 642. Authorization for membership in the International Tropical Timber
Organization.
Sec. 643. Authorization for membership in the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.
Sec. 644. Authorization of appropriations for membership in wildlife
conventions.
Part E--Global Warming
Sec. 651. Report concerning Global Warming Prevention Network.
Part F--International Environmental Education
Sec. 661. Policy Regarding Environmental Libraries.
TITLE VII--TELEVISION BROADCASTING TO CUBA ACT
Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Findings; purposes.
Sec. 703. Additional functions of the United States Information Agency.
Sec. 704. Assistance from other Government agencies.
Sec. 705. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 706. Definitions.
Sec. 707. Advisory Board for Cuba broadcasting.
TITLE VIII--PLO COMMITMENTS COMPLIANCE ACT OF 1989
Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Findings.
Sec. 803. Policy.
Sec. 804. Reporting requirement.
TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 901. Inter-American Foundation.
Sec. 902. Consideration by Senate committees of certain expedited legislation.
Sec. 903. Munitions control registration fees.
Sec. 904. Procedures for issuance of commercial arms export licenses.
Sec. 905. Prohibition on the use of military items in Tibet.
Sec. 906. Use of herbicides for drug eradication.
Sec. 907. Report concerning Mexico.
Sec. 908. President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
Sec. 909. Establishment of Pacific Basin Forum.
Sec. 910. Democracy, human rights, and justice in the People's Republic
of China.
Sec. 911. Support for Benjamin Franklin house museum and library.
Sec. 912. Report concerning an International Agricultural Conservation Reserve.
Sec. 913. High seas driftnet fishing.
Sec. 914. Chemical and biological weapons suppliers group.
TITLE I--THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PART A--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; ALLOCATION OF FUNDS
SEC. 101. ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
  The following amounts are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1990
  for the Department of State for the `Administration of Foreign Affairs'
  to carry out the authorities, functions, duties, and responsibilities
  in the conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States and for other
  purposes authorized by law:
  (1) For `Salaries and Expenses' of the Department of State, (other than
  the Diplomatic Security Program), $1,485,187,000.
  (2) For `Salaries and Expenses' of the Diplomatic Security Program,
  $310,365,000.
  (3) For the `Office of the Inspector General', $18,672,000.
  (4) For the `Acquisition and Maintenance of Buildings Abroad', $218,900,000.
  (5) For `Representation Allowances', $4,600,000.
  (6) For the `Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials', $9,100,000.
  (7) For `Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service', $4,700,000.
  (8) For the `American Institute in Taiwan', $11,300,000.
SEC. 102. CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND CONFERENCES.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- The following amounts are authorized to
  be appropriated to the Department of State under `International Organizations
  and Conferences' for fiscal year 1990:
  (1) For `Contributions to International Organizations', $714,927,000.
  (2) For `Contributions for International Peacekeepings Activities',
  $111,184,000.
  (3) For `International Conferences and Contingencies', $6,340,000.
  (b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by
  paragraph (1), $1,249,000 for fiscal year 1990 shall be available only
  for the South Pacific Commission.
SEC. 103. INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS.
  The following amounts are authorized to be appropriated to the Department
  of State under `International Commissions' for fiscal year 1990:
  (1) For the salaries and expenses of the `International Boundary and Water
  Commission, United States and Mexico', $10,460,000.
  (2) For construction projects for the `International Boundary and Water
  Commission, United States and Mexico', $11,500,000.
  (3) For the `International Boundary Commission, United States and Canada',
  $750,000.
  (4) For the `International Joint Commission', $3,750,000.
  (5) For `International Fisheries Commissions', $11,000,000.
SEC. 104. MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE.
  There are authorized to be appropriated for `Migration and Refugee
  Assistance' $370,000,000 for fiscal year 1990, of which $25,000,000 shall
  be available only for assistance for refugees resettling in Israel.
SEC. 105. THE ASIA FOUNDATION AND OTHER PROGRAMS.
  (a) THE ASIA FOUNDATION- (1) Section 404 of The Asia Foundation Act (22
  U.S.C. 4403) is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 404. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of
  State $18,000,000 for fiscal year 1990 for grants to The Asia Foundation
  pursuant to this title.'.
  (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on October 1, 1989.
  (b) OTHER PROGRAMS- There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
  year 1988 to the Department of State for the following programs:
  (1) For United States Bilateral Science and Technology Agreements,
  $4,000,000.
  (2) For Soviet-East European Research and Training, $5,000,000.
SEC. 106. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 24(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities
  Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2696(b)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as paragraphs (5) through
  (7), respectively;
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
  `(4)(A) Not later than the end of the two-fiscal year period immediately
  succeeding the end of the last fiscal year for which appropriations
  (other than no-year appropriations) for any account under the heading
  `Administration of Foreign Affairs' have been made available to the
  Department of State, amounts obligated during the period of availability
  may, if deobligated after expiration of the period of availability for
  obligation for such appropriations, be transferred into and merged with the
  `Buying Power Maintenance Account'.
  `(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term `no-year appropriations'
  means appropriations which are made available without regard to any fiscal
  year limitation.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(e) If--
  `(1) the amount appropriated (or made available in the event of a
  sequestration order issued pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency
  Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-177, as amended)) for a fiscal
  year pursuant to any authorization of appropriations provided by an Act
  other than an appropriation Act is less than the amount authorized to be
  appropriated, and
  `(2) a provision of that Act provides that a specified amount of the amount
  authorized to be appropriated shall be available only for a certain purpose,
then the amount so specified shall be reduced for that fiscal year to an
amount which bears the same ratio to the specified amount as the amount
appropriated (or made available in the event of sequestration) bears to the
amount authorized to be appropriated.
  `(f) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year for the
  Department of State are authorized to be obligated for twelve-month
  contracts which are to be performed in two fiscal years, if the total
  amount for such contracts is obligated in the earlier fiscal year.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply only
  to funds appropriated for fiscal year 1987 and thereafter, except that
  section 24(b)(4) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956,
  as added by subsection (a), shall apply only to funds which are deobligated
  after the date of enactment of this Act.
PART B--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES; FOREIGN MISSIONS
SEC. 111. PROHIBITION ON SOLICITATION OF FUNDS TO FURTHER PROHIBITED OR
RESTRICTED UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
  Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 is amended--
  (1) by redesignating section 43 as section 44; and
  (2) by inserting after section 42 the following new section:
`SEC. 43. PROHIBITION ON SOLICITATION OF FUNDS TO FURTHER PROHIBITED OR
RESTRICTED UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
  `(a) PROHIBITION- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no officer
  or employee of the United States Government may solicit the provision
  of funds or material assistance by any foreign government (including any
  instrumentality or agency thereof), foreign person, or United States person,
  for the purpose of furthering any military, foreign policy, or intelligence
  activity for which funds are expressly prohibited or restricted by United
  States law.
  `(b) PENALTY- Any person who violates the provision of subsection (a) shall
  be imprisoned not more than 5 years or fined in accordance with title 18,
  United States Code, or both.
  `(c) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `person' includes
  (1) any natural person, (2) any corporation, partnership, or other legal
  entity, and (3) any organization, association, or other group.
  `(d) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
  full Constitutional powers of the President to conduct the foreign policy
  of the United States.'.
SEC. 112. PROHIBITION ON ASSISTING THIRD PARTIES TO FURTHER PROHIBITED OR
RESTRICTED UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
  Chapter 1 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 620F. PROHIBITION ON ASSISTING THIRD PARTIES TO FURTHER PROHIBITED
  OR RESTRICTED UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ACTIONS-
  `(a) PROHIBITION- (1) Whenever funds for any military, foreign policy, or
  intelligence activity with respect to a specific foreign region, country,
  government, group, or individual are expressly prohibited or restricted by
  United States law, no United States assistance shall be provided to any
  third party which would have the purpose or direct effect of furthering
  or carrying out the prohibited or restricted activity.
  `(2) As used within the meaning of paragraph (1), assistance which is
  provided for a particular purpose includes assistance provided under an
  arrangement conditioning, expressly or impliedly, action by the recipient
  to further that purpose.
  `(b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `United States
  assistance' means--
  `(1) assistance of any kind under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
  `(2) sales, credits, and guaranties under the Arms Export Control Act;
  `(3) export licenses issued under the Arms Export Control Act; and
  `(4) activities authorized pursuant to the National Security Act of 1947
  (50 U.S.C. 410 et seq.), the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
  U.S.C. 403a et seq.), or Executive Order No. 12333 (December 4, 1981),
  excluding any activity involving the provision or sharing of intelligence
  information.
  `(c) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
  full Constitutional powers of the President to conduct the foreign policy
  of the United States.'.
SEC. 113. AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
  Section 2 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act (22 U.S.C. 2669)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (g), by striking out `and' at the end thereof;
  (2) in subsection (h), by striking out the period at the end thereof and
  inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
  (3) by inserting the following new subsections:
  `(i) pay obligations assumed in Germany on or after June 5, 1945;
  `(j) provide telecommunications services; and
  `(k) provide maximum physical security in Government-owned and leased
  properties and vehicles abroad.'.
SEC. 114. WORKING CAPITAL FUND FOR OFFICE OF FOREIGN MISSIONS.
  Section 13 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22
  U.S.C. 2684) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence--
  (A) by inserting `and' before `(4)'; and
  (B) by striking out `; and (5) services and supplies to carry out title
  II of this Act'; and
  (2) by inserting after the first sentence the following new sentence:
  `Such fund shall also be available without fiscal year limitation to carry
  out the purposes of title II of this Act'.
SEC. 115. AUTHORITY OF DIPLOMATIC SECURITY SERVICE.
  Section 37(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act (22
  U.S.C. 2709(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by redesignating clause (B) as clause (C);
  (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting after clause (A) the following new clause:
  `(B) make arrests without warrant for any offense concerning passport
  or visa issuance or use if the special agent has reasonable grounds to
  believe that the person has committed or is committing such offense;'; and
  (3) in paragraph (5), by amending the text above clause (A) to read
  as follows:
  `(5) arrest without warrant any person for a violation of section 111,
  112, 351, 970, or 1028 of title 18, United States Code--'.
SEC. 116. FEES AND REIMBURSEMENTS.
  The State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by section
  111, is further amended--
  (1) by redesignating section 44 as section 45; and
  (2) by inserting after section 43 the following new section:
`SEC. 44. FEES RECEIVED FOR USE OF BLAIR HOUSE.
  (a) USE OF FEES- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal
  year 1990, funds received by the Department of State in connection with
  use of Blair House, including reimbursements and surcharges for services
  and goods provided and fees for use of Blair House facilities, may be
  credited to the appropriate appropriation account for the Department of
  State which is currently available. Such receipts shall be available only
  for maintenance and other expenses of Blair House.
  `(b) COMPLIANCE WITH THE BUDGET ACT- The authority of this section may
  be exercised only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in
  advance in an appropriation Act.'.
SEC. 117. ACQUISITION OF DOMESTIC PROPERTY AS INTERIM STEP TO ACQUIRING
PROPERTY ABROAD.
  (a) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE OFFICE OF FOREIGN MISSIONS- Section 203(c)
  of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4303(c))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
  `(3) dispose of property acquired in carrying out the purposes of this
  Act; and'.
  (b) PROVISION OF BENEFITS- Section 204 of the State Department Basic
  Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 4303) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b), by striking out `or' at the end of paragraph (3);
  (2) by inserting `or' at the end of paragraph (4);
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(5) to implement an exchange of property with a foreign country, such
  property to be used by each government in the receiving state for or in
  connection with diplomatic or consular establishments,'; and
  (4) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(f)(1) Upon a determination in each specific case by the Secretary of State
  or his designee that the purpose of the Foreign Service Buildings Act,
  1926, can best be met on the basis of an in-kind exchange of properties
  with a foreign country pursuant to subsection (b)(5), the Secretary of
  State may transfer funds made available under the heading `Acquisition
  and Maintenance of Buildings Abroad' for such purpose, including funds
  held in the Foreign Service Buildings Fund, to the Working Capital Fund,
  as provided in section 208(h)(1). In addition to any funds that may be
  provided by a foreign government for the purchase of property, only funds
  transferred to the Working Capital Fund from the `Acquisition of Maintenance
  of Buildings Abroad' account or the Foreign Service Buildings Fund account
  may be used for the purposes of subsection (b)(5).
  `(2) The Secretary of State may acquire property in the United States
  for the purposes of subsection (b)(5) only in the context of a specific
  reciprocal agreement with a specified foreign government. Property acquired
  by the United States in the foreign country through such an exchange shall
  benefit the United States at least to the same extent as the property
  acquired in the United States benefits the foreign government.
  `(3)(A) Proceeds from disposition of properties acquired pursuant to this
  subsection shall be credited to the Foreign Service Buildings Fund under
  section 9 of the Foreign Service Buildings Act, 1926.
  `(B) The authority of subparagraph (A) may be exercised only to such extent
  or in such amounts as are provided in advance in an appropriation Act.'.
  (c) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY- Section 9(a)(1) of the Foreign Service Buildings
  Act, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 300(a)(1)), is amended by inserting after `countries'
  the following: `or in the United States pursuant to section 204(b)(5)
  of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956'.
SEC. 118. INTERNATIONAL CENTER.
  Section 4 of the International Center Act is amended by adding at the end
  thereof following new subsection:
  `(c)(1) The Department of State is authorized to charge other United
  States Government agencies for the lease or use of facilities located
  at the International Center and used for the purposes of security and
  maintenance. Any payments received for lease or use of such facilities
  shall be credited to the account entitled `International Center, Washington,
  District of Columbia' and shall be available, without fiscal year limitation,
  to cover the operating expenses of such facilities, including administration,
  maintenance, utilities, repairs, and alterations.
  `(2) The authority of paragraph (1) shall be exercised only to such extent
  or in such amounts as are provided in advance in an appropriation Act.'.
SEC. 119. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title I of the Act of June 20, 1956 (70 Stat. 302;
  22 U.S.C. 277d-12), is amended in the fourth undesignated paragraph under
  the heading `INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION, UNITED STATES
  AND MEXICO'--
  (1) by inserting `or sanitation' after `flood control'; and
  (2) by inserting before the period at the end thereof the following: `,
  the Colorado or Tijuana Rivers, and for taking emergency actions to protect
  against health threatening sanitation problems by repairing or replacing
  existing capital infrastructure along the United States-Mexico Boundary'.
  (b) RESTRICTIONS- The Act of May 13, 1924, as amended (49 Stat. 660;
  22 U.S.C. 277-277f), is amended--
  (1) in section 3 (22 U.S.C. 277b) by--
  (A) by inserting `(1)' after `authorized';
  (B) by striking out `and (b)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(2)';
  (C) by inserting before the period at the end thereof the following: `;
  and (3) to carry out preliminary surveys, operations, and maintenance of
  the interceptor system constructed to intercept sewage flows from Tijuana
  from selected canyon areas'; and
  (D) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(b) Expenditures for the Rio Grande bank protection project shall be subject
  to the provisions and conditions made with respect to that project in the
  first undesignated paragraph under the heading `INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS'
  contained in the Act of April 25, 1945 (59 Stat. 89).
  `(c) The Anzalduas diversion dam shall not be operated for irrigation or
  water supply purposes in the United States unless suitable arrangements
  have been made with the prospective water users for repayment to the
  Government of the United States for such portions of the dam as shall have
  been allocated to such purposes by the Secretary of State.'; and
  (2) in section 2 (49 Stat. 660; 22 U.S.C. 277a) by striking out `and
  stabilization' and inserting in lieu thereof `stabilization, drainage of
  transboundary storm waters,'.
SEC. 120. CONSULAR OFFICER DUTIES.
  Section 31 of the Act of June 22, 1860 (12 Stat. 79; 22 U.S.C. 4192),
  relating to the solemnizing of marriages, is repealed.
SEC. 121. ACCESS TO CRIMINAL RECORDS.
  Section 9101 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting `, the Department of State,' after
  `the Central Intelligence Agency';
  (2) in subsection (c), by inserting `the Department of State,' after
  `the Central Intelligence Agency,'; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(d) The authority provided under this section with respect to the Department
  of State may be exercised only so long as the Department of State continues
  to extend to its employees and applicants for employment, at a minimum,
  those procedural safeguards provided for as part of the security clearance
  process that are currently available pursuant to section 163.4 of volume
  3 of the Foreign Affairs Manual.'.
SEC. 122. STATE DEPARTMENT POST OFFICES ABROAD.
  Title 39, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in the heading for section 406, by inserting `and diplomatic posts
  abroad' after `installations';
  (2) in section 406(a), by striking out `Forces and' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `Forces,';
  (3) by inserting `, and at diplomatic posts abroad' before the period at
  the end thereof;
  (4) in section 406(b), by inserting `, State,' after `Defense';
  (5) in the heading for section 3401, by adding at the end thereof `and
  United States Government employees assigned to United States diplomatic
  missions abroad';
  (6) in section 3401(e)--
  (A) by inserting `and the Department of State' after `Department of Defense'
  the first place it appears;
  (B) by striking out `the Department of Defense' the second place it appears
  and inserting in lieu thereof `these agencies';
  (C) by inserting `or diplomatic posts abroad' after `Armed Forces post
  offices'; and
  (D) by inserting `or a diplomatic post abroad' before the period at the
  end thereof;
  (7) in section 3401(f), by inserting `or the Secretary of State' after
  `Secretary of Defense'; and
  (8) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(g) The authority provided in this section shall be exercised with respect
  to diplomatic posts only to the extent that the total cost of postal
  service provided by the Department of State pursuant to such authority
  does not exceed the total cost of postal service that would be incurred
  by the Department of State in the absence of such authority.'.
SEC. 123. OPENING AN AMERICAN CONSULATE IN BRATISLAVA.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the State Department's `small consulate' concept offers a model for
  reopening a consulate in Bratislava at modest cost and with significant
  public diplomacy and political benefits;
  (2) the United States still owns the old consulate building and in 1987-1988
  spent about $500,000 to renovate parts of the building;
  (3) the building has been productively used for trade and cultural events,
  but could be more effectively used by restoring it to its original purpose
  as the locus of official United States representation in the Slovak capital;
  (4) Slovakia has been the source of the largest and most recent wave of
  Czechoslovak emigration to the United States and approximately three and
  one-half million Americans are of Slovak heritage;
  (5) American tourists of Slovakia, many visiting relatives, often require
  consular assistance and this consular support could best be provided by
  a consulate in Bratislava;
  (6) Slovaks account for more than half of all Czechoslovak tourist travel
  to the United States and this travel, which should be encouraged, could
  be expedited by an American consulate in Bratislava;
  (7) the Slovak underground Catholic Church is one of the most vibrant
  religious forces in Czechoslovakia and each year tens of thousands of
  Catholics make pilgrimages to Slovakia;
  (8) American outreach efforts in Slovakia have been hindered by the absence
  of a constant and direct American presence in Bratislava; and
  (9) with its Hungarian, Polish, and Ukranian minorities, an American
  consulate in Bratislava would provide important information on both regional
  and local developments.
  (b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that the
  President should take all practicable steps to reopen the American consulate
  in Bratislava.
SEC. 124. CONSTRUCTION OF UNITED STATES EMBASSY IN OTTAWA.
  Section 402(a) of the Diplomatic Security Act (22 U.S.C. 4852(a)) shall
  not apply to the construction or renovation of the United States Embassy
  in Ottawa, Canada.
SEC. 125. REPORT ON REORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that:
  (1) The Department of State is currently reviewing its organizational
  structure.
  (2) Each of the geographical bureaus deals with a large number of countries
  and often a broad diversity of cultures, nationalities, and ethnic divisions.
  (3) The territory covered by the Bureau of Near Eastern and South Asian
  Affairs, for example, stretches from the Atlantic Coast of Morocco to the
  Bay of Bengal, includes 25 countries, more than a billion people, a number
  of regional disputes, and several cultural and linguistic divisions. The
  Bureau of Inter-American Affairs has within its jurisdiction 33 countries,
  including Mexico, the nations of the Caribbean Basin, and Central and
  South America.
  (4) Among the most pressing international issues is the prospect for Global
  Warming. Over the next few years, American leadership at the international
  level will be crucial to worldwide efforts to ensure that Global Warming
  does not occur. The Department of State will need to consider appropriate
  steps to prepare for the leadership role of the United States.
  (5) The United States continues to face a foreign intelligence threat,
  including the danger to United States diplomatic missions. The Department
  of State will need to improve its ability to detect and prevent intelligence
  penetration of United States missions abroad.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than December 31, 1989, the Secretary of State
  shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and
  the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a
  report assessing the advisability of reorganization of its regional and
  functional bureaus. The report shall include, but not be limited to, an
  assessment of the advisability of establishing a Bureau of South Asian
  Affairs, two bureaus to cover the present responsibilities of the Bureau
  of Inter-American Affairs, an office of Diplomatic Security to be headed
  by an Under Secretary-level Director of Diplomatic Security, and an Office
  of Global Warming within the Bureau of Oceans, International Environmental
  and Scientific Affairs. The report shall also include an assessment of
  the advisability of transferring the jurisdictional responsibility for
  the Organization of American States from the Bureau of International
  Organizations to the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, and of creating a
  high-level coordinator for United States policy toward Mexico.
SEC. 126. ESTABLISHMENT OF A LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN DATA BASE.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- The Secretary of State, in consultation with the heads
  of appropriate departments and agencies of the United States, shall use not
  less than $1,300,000 of the funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
  year 1990 by this title to provide continued support for the establishment
  of a Latin American and Caribbean Data Base.
  (b) CONDITIONS- In developing the data base described in subsection (a),
  the Secretary of State shall be required to satisfy the following conditions:
  (1) Any agreement for an on-line bibliographic data base entered into for
  purposes of this section shall continue to be subject to full and open
  competition or merit review among qualified United States institutions
  with strong Latin American and Caribbean programs.
  (2) The Secretary of State shall ensure that funds are not awarded to
  maintain services which are significantly duplicative of existing services.
PART C--DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY, RECIPROCITY, AND SECURITY
SEC. 131. EXCLUSION OF ALIENS PREVIOUSLY INVOLVED IN A SERIOUS CRIMINAL
OFFENSE COMMITTED IN THE UNITED STATES.
  (a) GROUNDS OF EXCLUSION- Section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality
  Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (33) and inserting in
  lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (2) by adding after paragraph (33) the following new paragraph:
  `(34)(A) Any alien who has committed in the United States any serious
  criminal offense, as defined in subparagraph (B), for whom immunity from
  criminal jurisdiction was exercised with respect to that offense, who as
  a consequence of the offense and the exercise of immunity has departed
  the United States, and who has not subsequently submitted fully to the
  jurisdiction of the United States with respect to that offense;
  `(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `serious criminal offense'
  means--
  `(i) any felony;
  `(ii) any crime of violence, as defined in section 16 of title 18 of the
  United States Code; or
  `(iii) any crime of reckless driving or of driving while intoxicated or
  under the influence of alcohol or of prohibited substances when that crime
  involves personal injury to another.'.
  (b) WITHHOLDING DEPORTATION- Section 212(h) of the Immigration and
  Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(h)) is amended by striking `or (12)' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `, (12) or (34)'.
  (c) REPORT CONCERNING COMPENSATION AND DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY- (1) The
  Secretary of State shall prepare and submit a report to the Congress which
  considers the need and feasibility of establishing a program which makes
  compensation awards to United States citizens and permanent resident aliens
  in the United States for physical injury or financial loss which is the
  result of criminal activity reasonably believed to have been committed
  by individuals with immunity from criminal jurisdiction as a result of
  international obligations of the United States arising from multilateral
  agreements, bilateral agreements, or international law.
  (2) Together with such other information as the Secretary considers
  appropriate, the report shall include--
  (A) a plan and feasibility analysis for the establishment of such a program,
  including--
  (i) specific recommendations for funding, administration, and procedures
  and standards for compensation and payment of awards; and
  (ii) particular consideration of the feasibility of an appeals mechanism;
  (B) an assessment of--
  (i) the feasibility of establishing a fund,
  (ii) the availability of existing accounts, or
  (iii) other sources of funding for the program; and
  (C) consideration of other possible mechanisms for compensation or
  reimbursement, including direct compensation by the individual with immunity
  from criminal jurisdiction or by the sending country of that individual.
  (3) Not more than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
  the Secretary of State shall submit the report referred to in paragraph
  (1) to the appropriate committees of the Congress.
SEC. 132. UNITED STATES-SOVIET RECIPROCITY IN MATTERS RELATING TO EMBASSIES.
  Section 153(b) of Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988
  and 1989 (Public Law 100-204) is amended by striking out `until the United
  States mission in Kiev is able to occupy secure permanent facilities'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `except on the basis of reciprocity as to
  the establishment by the United States of a consulate in Kiev'.
SEC. 133. UNITED STATES-SOVIET EMBASSY AGREEMENT.
  Section 151 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988
  and 1989 (Public Law 100-204), is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 151. UNITED STATES-SOVIET EMBASSY AGREEMENT.
  `(a) RESTRICTION- The Soviet Union shall not be permitted to occupy the
  new chancery building on Mount Alto in Washington, District of Columbia,
  unless and until the President certifies in writing to the Speaker of
  the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate that--
  `(1) there is completed a new chancery building for use by the United
  States Embassy in Moscow which can be safely and securely used for its
  intended purpose; and
  `(2) all feasible steps have or will be taken to eliminate the damage to
  the national security of the United States due to electronic surveillance
  from Soviet facilities on Mount Alto.
  `(b) CERTIFICATION DESCRIBED- Not later than six months after the date of
  enactment of this section, the President shall terminate the Agreement
  Between the Government of the United States and the Government of the
  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Reciprocal Allocation for Use
  Free of Charge of Plots of Land in Moscow and Washington (signed at Moscow,
  May 16, 1969), and related agreements, notes, and understandings unless he
  certifies to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman of
  the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the Soviet use of the
  facility on Mount Alto does not pose a significantly greater threat to the
  national security of the United States than the potential or actual threat
  from Soviet use for espionage of existing Soviet facilities in Washington,
  District of Columbia.
  `(c) WAIVER- The President may waive subsection (b) if he determines that
  it is in the vital national security interest of the United States to do
  so and reports in writing to the Speaker of the House of Representatives
  and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate,
  together with a detailed explanation, in suitably classified form, of the
  reasons for making this waiver.'.
SEC. 134. CHILD CARE FACILITIES AT CERTAIN POSTS ABROAD.
  Section 31 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22
  U.S.C. 2684) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
  subsection:
  `(e) The Secretary of State may make grants to child care facilities, to
  offset in part the cost of such care, in Moscow and at no more than five
  other posts abroad where the Secretary determines that due to extraordinary
  circumstances such facilities are necessary to the efficient operation
  of the post. In making that determination, the Secretary shall take into
  account factors such as--
  `(1) whether Foreign Service spouses are encouraged to work at the post
  because--
  `(A) the number of members of the post is subject to a ceiling imposed by
  the receiving country; and
  `(B) Foreign Service nationals are not employed at the post; and
  `(2) whether local child care is available.'.
SEC. 135. STATE DEPARTMENT CONTRACTOR EXEMPTION TO POLYGRAPH PROTECTION ACT.
  Section 7 of the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988 (Public Law
  100-347) is amended by--
  (1) redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f), as subsections (e),
  (f), and (g); and
  (2) adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
  `(d) DEPARTMENT OF STATE CONTRACTORS EXEMPTION- Nothing in this Act shall
  be construed to prohibit the administration, by the Department of State,
  in the performance of any counterintelligence function, of any lie detector
  test, administered under regulations implementing the Department's polygraph
  program, to any individual under contract to the Department of State or any
  employee of a contractor or subcontractor of the Department of State, who is
  engaged in the performance of any work under that contract or subcontract.'.
SEC. 136. USE OF CLEARED PERSONNEL TO ENSURE SECURE MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
OF DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES ABROAD.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title IV of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism
  Act of 1986 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
  section:
`SEC. 415. USE OF CLEARED PERSONNEL TO ENSURE SECURE MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
OF DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES ABROAD.
  `(a) POLICIES AND REGULATIONS- The Secretary of State shall develop and
  implement policies and regulations to provide for the use of persons who
  have been granted an appropriate United States security clearance to ensure
  that the security of areas intended for the storage of classified materials
  or the conduct of classified activities in a United States diplomatic
  mission or consular post abroad is not compromised in the performance of
  maintenance and repair services in those areas.
  `(b) STUDY AND REPORT- The Secretary of State shall conduct a study of
  the feasibility and necessity of requiring that, in the case of certain
  United States diplomatic facilities abroad, no contractor shall be hired to
  perform maintenance or repair services in an area intended for the storage
  of classified materials or the conduct of classified activities unless
  such contractor has been granted an appropriate United States security
  clearance. Such study shall include but is not limited to United States
  facilities located in Cairo, New Delhi, Riyadh, and Tokyo. Not later than
  180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of
  State shall report the results of such a study to the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for
  the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 is amended
  by inserting after the item relating to section 414 the following new item:
`Sec. 415. Use of cleared personnel to ensure secure maintenance and repair
of diplomatic facilities abroad.'.
PART D--PERSONNEL
SEC. 141. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS FOR FOREIGN SERVICE
NATIONALS TO LOCAL PLANS.
  (a) LOCAL COMPENSATION PLANS- Subsection 408(a) of the Foreign Service
  Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3968) is amended by inserting at the end thereof
  the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) At the direction of the Secretary of State, and whenever a foreign
  national employee so elects during a one-year period established by the
  Secretary of State with respect to each post abroad, the Secretary of
  the Treasury shall transfer such employee's interest in the Civil Service
  Retirement and Disability Fund to a trust or other local retirement plan
  certified by the United States Government, under a local compensation
  plan established for foreign national employees pursuant to this section
  (excluding local social security plans).
  `(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the phrase `employee's interest
  in the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund' means the total
  contributions of the employee and the employing agency with respect to
  such employee, pursuant to subsections 8331(8) and 8334(a)(1) of title 5,
  United States Code, respectively, plus interest at the rate provided in
  subsection 8334(e)(3) of such title.
  `(C) Any such transfer shall void any annuity rights or entitlement to
  lump-sum credit under subchapter III of chapter 83 of such title.'.
  (b) TRANSFER AS CONSTITUTING FINAL PAYMENT- Section 8345 of title 5, United
  States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof a new subsection (l),
  as follows:
  `(l) Transfers of contributions and deposits authorized by section 408(a)(3)
  of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 shall be deemed to be a complete and
  final payment of benefits under this chapter with respect to the employee's
  funds thus transferred.'.
SEC. 142. DISQUALIFICATION FOR SERVICE ON FOREIGN SERVICE SELECTION BOARDS.
  Section 602 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4002) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(c) No public members appointed pursuant to this section may be, at the
  time of their appointment or during their appointment, an agent of a foreign
  principal, as defined by section 1(b) of the Foreign Agents Registration
  Act of 1938 or receive income from a government of a foreign country.'.
SEC. 143. SEPARATION FOR CAUSE; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
  (a) AVAILABILITY OF JUDICIAL REVIEW- Section 610(a)(2) of the Foreign
  Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4010(a)(2)) is amended by adding at the
  end thereof the following new sentence: `Section 1110 shall also apply to
  proceedings under this paragraph.'.
  (b) SEPARATION DUE TO CRIMINAL CONVICTION- Section 610(a)(2) of the Foreign
  Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4010) is amended by inserting at the end of
  the first sentence before the period the following: `or, notwithstanding
  section 1106(8) of this Act, unless the member has been convicted of a
  crime related to the cause for separation, subject to reinstatement with
  back pay (for any period during which separation for cause had not been
  established by such a hearing) if such conviction is reversed on appeal'.
SEC. 144. VISITING SCHOLARS PROGRAM FOR THE FOREIGN SERVICE INSTITUTE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 7 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 707. Visiting Scholars Program-
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- There is authorized to be established
  at the Foreign Service Institute a program whereby selected scholars
  would participate fully in the educational and training activities of
  the Institute. This program may be referred to as the `Visiting Scholars
  Program'.
  `(b) SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF SCHOLARS-
  `(1) Scholars participating in the Visiting Scholar Program shall be
  selected by a five-member board described in subsection (c).
  `(2) Each visiting scholar shall serve a term of one year, except that
  such term may be extended for one additional one-year period.
  `(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF SELECTION BOARD- The board described in subsection
  (b) shall be composed of the Director of the Foreign Service Institute,
  who shall serve as Chairman, and four other members appointed by the
  Secretary of State.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of the Foreign
  Service Act of 1980 is amended by inserting after the item relating to
  section 706 the following new item:
`Sec. 707. Visiting Scholars Program.'.
SEC. 145. CREDIT FOR SERVICE AT UNHEALTHFUL POSTS.
  (a) CREDITABLE SERVICE- Section 816(i)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980
  (22 U.S.C. 4056) is amended to read as follows:
  `(2) A former spouse shall not be considered as married to a participant
  for periods assumed to be creditable service under section 808(a) or
  section 809(e).'.
  (b) CALCULATION OF CREDIT FOR SERVICE AT UNHEALTHFUL POSTS- Section 817
  of such Act (22 U.S.C. 4057) is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following new sentences: `Such extra credit shall not be used to
  determine the eligibility of a person to qualify as a former spouse
  under this subchapter, or to compute the pro rata share under section
  804(10). No extra credit for service at unhealthful posts shall be given
  under this section for any service as part of a tour of duty, or extension
  thereof, commencing on or after the effective date of the Foreign Relations
  Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1990.'.
SEC. 146. FORMER SPOUSES OF UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY AND AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEES.
  (a) RETIREMENT BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN FORMER SPOUSES- Section 830 of the
  Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4069a) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new subsection:
  `(f) Any individual who on February 14, 1981, was an otherwise qualified
  former spouse pursuant to this section, but who was married to a former
  Foreign Service employee of the United States Information Agency or of
  the Agency for International Development, shall be entitled to benefits
  under this section if--
  `(1) the former employee retired from the Civil Service Retirement and
  Disability System on a date before his employing agency could legally
  participate in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System; and
  `(2) the marriage included at least five years during which the employee
  was assigned overseas.'.
  (b) SURVIVOR BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN FORMER SPOUSES- Section 831 of the Foreign
  Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4069b) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new subsection:
  `(g) Any individual who on February 14, 1981, was an otherwise qualified
  former spouse pursuant to this section, but who was married to a former
  Foreign Service employee of the United States Information Agency or of the
  Agency of International Development, shall be entitled to benefits under
  this section if--
  `(1) the former employee retired from the Civil Service Retirement and
  Disability System on a date before his employing agency could legally
  participate in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System; and
  `(2) the marriage included at least five years during which the employee
  was assigned overseas.'.
  (c) HEALTH BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN FORMER SPOUSES- Section 832 of the Foreign
  Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4069c) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new subsection:
  `(f) Any individual who on February 14, 1981, was an otherwise qualified
  former spouse pursuant to subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section,
  but who was married to a former Foreign Service employee of the United
  States Information Agency or of the Agency for International Development,
  shall be entitled to benefits under this section if--
  `(1) the former employee retired from the Civil Service Retirement and
  Disability System on a date before his employing agency could legally
  participate in the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System; and
  `(2) the marriage included at least five years during which the employee
  was assigned overseas.'.
SEC. 147. TRAVEL, LEAVE, AND OTHER BENEFITS.
  Section 901(9) of chapter 9 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22
  U.S.C. 4081(9)) is amended by striking out `from a location' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `to or from an employee's assigned post'.
SEC. 148. SPECIAL ALLOWANCES UNDER TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 5523(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting `(or that of his dependents or
  immediate family, as the case may be)' after `departure'; and
  (2) in the last sentence, by striking out `for not more than 120 additional
  days' and inserting in lieu thereof `thereafter in 30-day increments,
  up to a total evacuation period of no more than 270 days'.
  (b) LUMP-SUM PAYMENTS- Section 5551(a) of that title is amended by inserting
  after `pay' in the second sentence the following: `or, for service as part
  of a tour of duty or extension thereof commencing on or after the effective
  date of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1990, the
  basic pay,'.
  (c) AUTHORITY FOR ALLOWANCES- Section 5922 of that title is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(d) When a quarters allowance or an allowance related to education under
  this subchapter, or quarters furnished in Government-owned or controlled
  buildings under section 5912, would be furnished to an employee but for
  the death of the employee, such allowances or quarters may be furnished or
  continued for the purpose of allowing any child of the employee to complete
  the current school year at post or away from post, notwithstanding the
  employee's death.
  `(e) When an allowance related to education away from post under
  this subchapter would be authorized to an employee but for the
  evacuation/authorized departure status of the post, such an allowance may
  be furnished or continued for the purpose of allowing any dependent child
  of such employee to complete the current school year.'.
  (d) QUARTERS ALLOWANCES- Section 5923 of that title is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking out `lodging' and inserting in lieu thereof `subsistence';
  and
  (B) by inserting `including meals and laundry expenses' after `quarters'
  the first time it appears;
  (2) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking out `3 months' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `90 days'; and
  (3) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking out `1 month' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `30 days'.
  (e) POST ALLOWANCE- Section 5924(1) of that title is amended by inserting
  before the period at the end thereof the following: `, except that employees
  receiving the temporary subsistence allowance under section 5923(1) of this
  title are ineligible for receipt of a post allowance under this paragraph.'.
  (f) TRANSFER ALLOWANCE- Section 5924(2) of that title is amended--
  (1) in the text above clause (A)--
  (A) by inserting `subsistence and other relocation' after `reasonable'; and
  (B) by inserting `(including unavoidable lease penalties)' after `expenses';
  (2) in clause (A), by striking out `the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico'; and
  (3) in clause (B), by striking out `between assignments to posts in
  foreign areas' and inserting in lieu thereof `after the employee agrees
  in writing to remain in Government service for 12 months after transfer,
  unless separated for reasons beyond the control of the employee that are
  acceptable to the agency concerned'.
  (g) EDUCATION ALLOWANCE- Section 5924(4) of that title is amended--
  (1) in the text above clause (A), by inserting `or, to the extent education
  away from post is involved, official assignment to serve in such area or
  areas,' after `dependents,';
  (2) in clause (A), by inserting `pre-school for handicapped children ages
  three to five years,' before `kindergarten,'; and
  (3) in clause (B), by striking out `undergraduate college' each place it
  appears and inserting in lieu thereof `postsecondary (but not graduate or
  postgraduate) educational institution'.
SEC. 149. GRANTS FOR INSTITUTIONS AND STUDENTS FOR TRAINING IN INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS.
  The State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2269 et seq.),
  as amended by sections 111 and 116, is further amended--
  (1) by redesignating section 45 as section 46; and
  (2) by inserting after section 44 the following new section:
`SEC. 45. GRANTS FOR TRAINING AND EDUCATION IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS.
  `The Secretary of State may make grants to postsecondary educational
  institutions or students for the purpose of increasing the level of knowledge
  and awareness of and interest in employment with the Foreign Service,
  consistent with section 105 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980. To the
  extent possible, the Secretary shall give special emphasis to promoting such
  knowledge and awareness of the Foreign Service among minority students. Any
  grants awarded shall be made pursuant to regulations to be established
  by the Secretary of State, which shall provide for a limit on the size of
  any specific grant and, regarding any grants to individuals, shall ensure
  that no grant recipient receives an amount of grants from one or more
  Federal programs which in the aggregate would exceed the cost of his or her
  education, and shall require satisfactory educational progress by grantees
  as a condition of eligibility for continued receipt of grant funds.'.
SEC. 150. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF CERTAIN FOREIGN SERVICE GRIEVANCES.
  For the purposes of judicial review under section 1010 of the Foreign Service
  Act of 1980, any recommendation made by the Foreign Service Grievance Board
  with respect to the tenure of a grievant which was reviewed by the Secretary
  of State before the date of enactment of the Foreign Relations Authorization
  Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989, shall be considered to be a final action of
  the Department of State, and any such recommendation shall be considered to
  have been made within the authority of the Foreign Service Grievance Board.
SEC. 151. MERIT BASED FOREIGN SERVICE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that a primary role of the Department of
  State is to represent the interests of the American people in foreign affairs
  and, as such, should strive to represent and include, among its policy
  and professional employees, the great diversity of the American people.
  (b) RECRUITMENT- (1) Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary of State shall provide the Congress with a plan
  to assure that equal efforts are undertaken in each of the regions of
  the United States to recruit policy and professional Government Service
  Employees and Foreign Service Officers for the Department of State and
  each of its affiliated agencies.
  (2) Not later than January 1, 1990, the Secretary of State shall implement
  the plan provided for in paragraph (1).
  (c) REPORT- Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Office of Inspector General of the Department of State shall submit
  to the Congress a report documenting the geographic, racial, ethnic,
  and gender composition of the policy and professional Government Service
  employees and Foreign Service Officers of the Department and each of its
  affiliated agencies. The report shall include--
  (1) a breakdown of current policy and professional Government Service
  employees and Foreign Service Officers of the Department and each of
  its affiliated agencies by age, race, gender, undergraduate institution,
  graduate institution, and place of birth;
  (2) a breakdown by age, race, gender, ethnic background, undergraduate
  institution, graduate institution, and place of birth of those persons
  who during 1988 passed the written portion of the Foreign Service exam
  but failed the interview portion; and
  (3) a breakdown by age, race, gender, ethnic background, undergraduate
  institution, graduate institution, and place of birth of those persons
  who during 1989 passed the Foreign Service exam.
  (d) PROHIBITION ON DISCRIMINATION BASED ON GEOGRAPHIC OR EDUCATIONAL
  AFFILIATION- Section 105(b)(1) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22
  U.S.C. 3905(b)(1)) is amended by inserting `geographic or educational
  affiliation within the United States,' after `marital status,'.
SEC. 152. PROTECTION OF THE INTEGRITY OF THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESS.
  Unless an individual has been appointed to fill the position of Ombudsman
  for Civil Service Employees, pursuant to the requirements of section 172(c)
  of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989,
  within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of
  the Office of Personnel Management shall appoint an ombudsman within 120
  days after the date of enactment of this Act to carry out the functions
  of that position.
PART E--FOREIGN LANGUAGE COMPETENCE WITHIN THE FOREIGN SERVICE
SEC. 161. EXPANSION OF MODEL FOREIGN LANGUAGE COMPETENCE POSTS.
  (a) DESIGNATION OF POSTS- In order to carry out the purposes of section
  702 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, and in light of the positive
  report issued on March 28, 1986, by the Department of State, as required
  by section 2207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, the Secretary of State
  shall designate as model foreign language competence posts at least two
  Foreign Service posts in each of the Department of State's five geographic
  bureaus, for a minimum of ten posts, in countries where English is not the
  common language. Such designation shall be made not later than October 1,
  1989, and shall be implemented so that no later than October 1, 1991, each
  Government employee permanently assigned to those posts shall possess an
  appropriate level of competence in the language common to the country where
  the post is located. The Secretary of State shall determine appropriate
  levels of language competence for employees assigned to those posts by
  reference to the nature of their functions and the standards employed by
  the Foreign Service Institute.
  (b) `HARD LANGUAGE COUNTRY' POST TO BE DESIGNATED- At least one of the
  posts designated under subsection (a) shall be in a `hard language'
  country, as identified in the report to the Under Secretary of State for
  Management of May 12, 1986, entitled `Hard Language Proficiency in the
  Foreign Service'. Such post shall be in one of the countries where the
  official or principal language is Arabic, Chinese, Japanese, or Russian.
  (c) TERMINATION DATE- The posts designated under subsection (a) shall
  continue as model foreign language posts at least until September 30,
  1993. Not later than January 31, 1994, the Secretary of State shall submit to
  the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
  Affairs of the House of Representatives a report describing the operation
  of such posts and the costs, advantages, and disadvantages associated with
  meeting the foreign language competence requirements of this section.
  (d) EXEMPTION AUTHORITY- The Secretary of State may authorize exceptions
  to the requirements of this section if--
  (1) he determines that unanticipated exigencies so require; and
  (2) he immediately reports such exceptions to the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
  of Representatives.
  (e) EXCLUDED POSTS- The posts designated under subsection (a) may not
  include Dakar, Senegal, or Montevideo, Uruguay. The report required under
  subsection (c) shall include progress made in these posts in maintaining
  the high foreign language standards achieved under the initial pilot program.
  (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
SEC. 162. REPORT ON FOREIGN LANGUAGE ENTRANCE REQUIREMENT FOR THE FOREIGN
SERVICE.
  Not later than December 31, 1989, the Secretary of State shall submit to the
  Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
  Affairs of the House of Representatives a report evaluating an entrance
  requirement for the Foreign Service of at least one world language at the
  S-3/R-3 level, as defined by the Foreign Service Institute, or one nonworld
  language at the S-2/R-2 level. Such report shall also describe--
  (1) the amount of time necessary to implement such a requirement;
  (2) the use of bonus points on the Foreign Service candidate scoring system
  for candidates with foreign language ability; and
  (3) the adjustments necessary to raise otherwise qualified candidates,
  especially including affirmative action applicants, to the levels required
  for entrance as defined in this section.
SEC. 163. FOREIGN SERVICE PROMOTION PANELS.
  It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent possible,
  Foreign Service promotion panels should--
  (1) only promote candidates to the Senior Foreign Service who have
  demonstrated foreign language proficiency in at least one language at the
  S-3/R-3 level, as defined by the Foreign Service Institute;
  (2) strive for the objective stipulated in the Foreign Service Manual
  (3 FAM 870, `Foreign Language Training', 871.2-1 a. (1)) `to be able to
  use two foreign languages at a minimum professional level of proficiency
  of S-3/R-3'; and
  (3) have at least one person on each Foreign Service promotion panel who
  has attained at least the S-3/R-3 level.
SEC. 164. LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY IN THE EMPLOYEE EVALUATION REPORT.
  (a) ASSESSMENT OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE COMPETENCE- The Department of State
  and the Agency for International Development shall revise the Employee
  Evaluation Report for Foreign Service officers, and the United States
  Information Agency shall revise the Officer Evaluation Report for its
  Foreign Service officers, to require, as a separate entry, an assessment of
  the employee's performance in each foreign language tested at the S-3/R-3
  level, including the date on which the officer was last tested in that
  language and the score achieved in the officer's last test.
  (b) PRECEDENCE IN PROMOTION- The directors of personnel of the Department
  of State, the Agency for International Development, and the United States
  Information Agency shall instruct promotion panels to take account of
  language ability and, all matters being otherwise equal, to give precedence
  in promotions to officers who have achieved a level of at least S-3/R-3
  in one or more foreign languages over officers who lack a level of S-3/R-3.
TITLE II--THE UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the United States Information Agency $440,000,000 for fiscal year
  1990 for `Salaries and Expenses' to carry out international information,
  educational, cultural, and other exchange programs under the United States
  Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, the Mutual Educational
  and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, Reorganization Plan Number 2 of 1977,
  and other purposes authorized by law.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  $4,000,000 for United States participation in the World's Fair in Seville,
  Spain.
SEC. 202. VOICE OF AMERICA.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to amounts authorized to
  be appropriated by section 201, there are authorized to be appropriated
  $181,724,000 for fiscal year 1990 to the Voice of America for the purpose
  of carrying out title V of the United States Information and Educational
  Exchange Act of 1948 and the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act.
  (b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS- Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this
  section, $12,000,000 shall be available only for the `Voice of America:
  Cuba Service'.
  (c) RADIO CONSTRUCTION- In addition to the funds authorized to be
  appropriated to the United States Information Agency by subsection (a),
  there are authorized to be appropriated $36,000,000 for radio construction.
SEC. 203. BUREAU OF EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL AFFAIRS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to amounts otherwise
  authorized to be appropriated by section 201, there are authorized to be
  appropriated to the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs $196,626,000
  for fiscal year 1990 to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Educational and
  Cultural Exchange Act of 1961. Of the funds authorized to be appropriated
  by this section, not less than--
  (1) $98,000,000 shall be available only for grants for the Fulbright
  Academic Programs;
  (2) $40,400,000 shall be available only for grants for the International
  Visitors Program;
  (3) $5,500,000 shall be available only for grants for the Hubert H. Humphrey
  Fellowship Program;
  (4) $2,500,000 shall be available only for Congress-Bundestag Exchanges;
  (5) $2,000,000 shall be available only for the Samantha Smith Programs.
  (6) $7,800,000 shall be available only for the Arts America Program;
  (7) $11,900,000 shall be available only for the Office of Citizen Exchanges;
  and
  (8) $150,000 for books and materials to complete the collections at the
  Edward Zorinsky Memorial Library in Jakarta, Indonesia.
  (b) ALLOCATION FOR SOVIET AND EASTERN EUROPEAN RESEARCH EXCHANGES- (1)
  Of the funds authorized to be appropriated in subsection (a), not less
  than $3,250,000 shall be available only for research exchanges with the
  Soviet Union and Eastern Europe for--
  (A) professors and other professionals holding the doctoral degree or its
  equivalent; and
  (B) enrolled doctoral candidates who will have satisfied all requirements
  for the doctoral degree except for the dissertation by the time of their
  exchange participation.
  (2) In addition to maintaining or expanding their traditional exchange
  programs with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, organizations receiving
  the funds allocated by this subsection shall be encouraged to develop
  direct exchanges with academic institutions in non-Russian republics in
  the Soviet Union.
SEC. 204. NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY.
  In addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, there
  are authorized to be appropriated to the United States Information Agency
  $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1990 to be available only for a grant to the
  National Endowment for Democracy for use in carrying out its purposes.
SEC. 205. EAST-WEST CENTER.
  There are authorized to be appropriated $20,700,000 for fiscal year 1990 to
  carry out the provisions of the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange
  Between East and West Act of 1960 (74 Stat. 134; Public Law 86-472).
SEC. 206. DIPLOMATIC CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM.
  Section 402(a)(2) of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism
  Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-399) is amended to read as follows:
  `(2) bid on a diplomatic construction or design project which involves
  physical or technical security, unless--
  `(A) the project is for the design or construction of a facility of the
  United States Information Agency that does not process or store classified
  material; and
  `(B) the total value of the project does not exceed $500,000.'.
SEC. 207. DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION WITHIN THE UNITED STATES.
  Section 501 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act
  of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1461) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' after `501.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(b)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), the Director
  shall make available to the Archivist of the United States, for domestic
  distribution, motion pictures, films, videotapes, and other material
  prepared for dissemination abroad 12 years after the dissemination of the
  material abroad or, in the case of such material not disseminated abroad,
  12 years after the preparation of the material.
  `(2) The Director shall be reimbursed for any attendant expenses. Any
  reimbursement to the Director pursuant to this subsection shall be credited
  to the applicable appropriation of the United States Information Agency.
  `(3) The Archivist shall be the official custodian of the material and shall
  issue necessary regulations to ensure that persons seeking its release
  have secured and paid for necessary United States rights and licenses
  and that all costs associated with the provision of the material by the
  Archivist shall be paid by the persons seeking its release. The Archivist
  may charge fees to recover such costs, in accordance with section 2116(c)
  of title 44, United States Code. Such fees shall be paid into, administered,
  and expended as part of the National Archives Trust Fund.'.
SEC. 208. USIA SATELLITE AND TELEVISION.
  Title V of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of
  1948 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 505. USIA SATELLITE AND TELEVISION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the United States Information Agency is
  authorized to lease or otherwise acquire time on commercial or United
  States Government satellites for the purpose of transmitting materials
  and programs of the Agency to posts and other users abroad. The Director
  is authorized to produce and transmit only where the programs are--
  `(1) interactive dialogue programs consisting of live interviews and
  discussions among participants in different locations;
  `(2) coverage of current events, such as United States elections, candidate
  debates, and presidential speeches, where such coverage is not available
  at a reasonable cost from commercial or public television networks;
  `(3) regular coverage of congressional proceedings, White House news
  briefings, or State Department news briefings, where such coverage is not
  available at a reasonable fee from C-Span or other public and commercial
  television service; or
  `(4) short news clips to be provided to foreign broadcasters only for
  rebroadcast at the discretion of the foreign broadcaster.
  `(b) PREFERENCE FOR NON-GOVERNMENTAL BROADCASTS- In transmitting programs
  by satellite pursuant to subsection (a), the Director of the United States
  Information Agency shall use programs produced by American commercial and
  public television broadcasters in preference to material produced by the
  United States Government where such programs are comparable to programs
  being produced by the United States Information Agency and where such
  programs are available at a reasonable cost. The United States Information
  Agency Film and Television Service is authorized to acquire and transmit,
  by satellite, programs produced by United States commercial and public
  television networks only if such programs--
  `(1) are comprised of news, public affairs, artistic, cultural, or scientific
  programming; and
  `(2) have been or are being broadcast in the United States.
  `(c) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS- Of the funds made available to the United States
  Information Agency for fiscal year 1990 for the acquisition, production, and
  transmission by satellite of television programs, not less than $1,500,000
  shall be available for the purchase or use of programs produced with grants
  from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting or produced by United States
  public television networks.
  `(d) POLICY TOWARD PROGRAMMING BY FOREIGN BROADCASTERS- The Congress
  intends that television programs transmitted by satellite pursuant to this
  section should supplement the programming of foreign broadcasters and does
  not intend that the United States Information Agency should establish its
  own television network in competition with foreign broadcasters or United
  States commercial and public television networks.
  `(e) AVAILABILITY OF LEASED TIME TO OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES- To the extent
  that significant economies may be achieved by the purchase of large blocks
  of satellite time, the Director of the United States Information Agency
  is authorized to acquire such satellite time. Satellite time not utilized
  by the United States Information Agency, or time in excess of four hours
  of programming each day, shall be made available to other United States
  Government agencies on a priority basis and without cost. Satellite time
  not utilized by the United States Government may be sold to commercial users.
  `(f) POLICY TOWARD FACILITATING ACCESS TO UNITED STATES PROGRAMMING- The
  Congress affirms its belief that the United States free enterprise system,
  supplemented by public television, provides the highest quality and most
  objective news and public affairs programming available. The United States
  Information Agency shall undertake, as a matter of high priority in the
  field of television, to promote access in foreign countries to the news
  and public affairs programming of United States commercial and public
  television networks. Whenever requested by a United States company and
  permitted by a foreign government, the United States Information Agency
  shall provide assistance, including use of the United States Information
  Agency satellite receiving equipment, to facilitate such access.
  `(g) REPEAL OF RESTRICTIONS- Section 209(e) of the Foreign Relations
  Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204),
  is repealed.
SEC. 209. VOICE OF AMERICA HIRING PRACTICES.
  Title V of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of
  1948 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 506. VOICE OF AMERICA HIRING PRACTICES.
  `(a) PROHIBITION- After the date of enactment of this section, the Voice
  of America shall not select candidates for employment who must be or are
  preapproved for employment at the Voice of America by a foreign government
  or an entity controlled by a foreign government.
  `(b) EXCEPTION- The prohibition referred to in this section shall not
  apply to--
  `(1) participants in the Voice of America's exchange programs; or
  `(2) clerical, technical, or maintenance staff at Voice of America offices
  in foreign countries.
  `(c) REPORT- In the event the Director of the United States Information
  Agency determines that the prohibition referred to in subsection (a)
  would require the discontinuation of a specific Voice of America foreign
  language service, then, not less than 90 days before the agency commences
  recruitment of such candidates, the Director shall submit to the chairmen
  of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on
  Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, a report on--
  `(1) the number and location of speakers of that foreign language who could
  be recruited by the Voice of America without violating this section; and
  `(2) the efforts made by the Voice of America to recruit such persons
  for employment.'.
SEC. 210. UNITED STATES ADVISORY COMMISSION ON PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 604 of the United States Information and Education
  Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1469) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 604. UNITED STATES ADVISORY COMMISSION ON PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- (1) There is established an advisory commission to be
  known as the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
  `(2) The Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the
  President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The members
  of the Commission shall represent the public interest and shall be selected
  from a cross section of educational, communications, cultural, scientific,
  technical, public service, labor, business, and professional backgrounds. Not
  more than four members shall be from any one political party.
  `(3) The term of each member shall be 3 years, except that of the original
  seven appointments, two shall be for a term of 1 year and two shall be
  for a term of 2 years.
  `(4) Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration
  of the term for which a predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for
  the remainder of such term. Upon the expiration of a member's term of
  office, such member may continue to serve until a successor is appointed
  and qualified.
  `(5) The President shall designate a member to chair the Commission.
  `(b) STAFF- The Commission shall have a staff director who shall be appointed
  by the chairperson of the Commission. Subject to such rules and regulations
  as may be adopted by the Commission, the chairperson of the Commission may--
  `(1) appoint such additional personnel for the staff of the Commission as
  the chairperson considers necessary; and
  `(2) procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is
  authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates
  for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of
  basic pay payable for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule under section
  5332 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(c) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES- (1) The Commission shall formulate and
  recommend to the Director, the Secretary of State, and the President policies
  and programs to carry out the functions vested in the Director or the Agency,
  and shall appraise the effectiveness of policies and programs of the Agency.
  `(2) The Commission shall submit to the Congress, the President, the
  Secretary of State, and the Director annual reports on programs and
  activities carried out by the Agency, including appraisals, where feasible,
  as to the effectiveness of the several programs. The Commission shall also
  include in such reports such recommendations as shall have been made by
  the Commission to the Director for effectuating the purposes of the Agency,
  and the action taken to carry out such recommendations.
  `(3) The Commission may also submit such other reports to the Congress
  as it considers appropriate, and shall make reports to the public in the
  United States and abroad to develop a better understanding of and support
  for the programs conducted by the Agency.
  `(4) The Commission's reports to the Congress shall include assessments
  of the degree to which the scholarly integrity and nonpolitical character
  of the educational and cultural exchange activities vested in the Director
  have been maintained, and assessments of the attitudes of foreign scholars
  and governments regarding such activities.
  `(d) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY- The Commission shall have no authority with
  respect to the J. William Fulbright Scholarship Board or the United States
  National Commission for UNESCO.'.
  (b) CONTINUED SERVICE OF MEMBERS OF COMMISSION- Members of the United
  States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy as in existence on the day
  before the date of enactment of this Act shall continue to serve for the
  remainder of the term to which each such member was appointed.
SEC. 211. FOREIGN LANGUAGE SERVICES.
  Section 804(1) of the United States Information and Educational Exchange
  Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1474(1)) is amended by inserting `when job vacancies
  occur' after `United States citizens are not available'.
SEC. 212. USE OF FEES FOR UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY PUBLICATIONS AND
OTHER PROGRAMS.
  Section 810 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act
  of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1475e) is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 810. Notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31 of any other law or
  limitation of authority, all payments received by or for the use of the
  United States Information Agency from or in connection with Agency-produced
  publications, English-teaching, and library programs produced or conducted
  by or on behalf of the Agency under the authority of this Act or the
  Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 may be credited to
  the Agency's applicable appropriation to such extent as may be provided
  in advance in an appropriation Act.'.
SEC. 213. THE J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT SCHOLARSHIP BOARD.
  (a) AMENDMENTS TO THE MUTUAL EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE ACT OF 1961-
  (1) Section 106(a) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of
  1961 (22 U.S.C. 2456(a)(1)) is amended in paragraph (1), by striking out
  `Board of Foreign Scholarships' and inserting in lieu thereof `board of
  foreign scholarships which shall be known as the `J. William Fulbright
  Scholarship Board'; and
  (2) Section 112 of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2460) is amended--
  (A) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d),
  respectively; and
  (B) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
  `(b)(1) All recipients of Fulbright Academic Exchange and Humphrey Fellowship
  awards shall have full academic and artistic freedom, including freedom to
  write, publish, and create. No award granted pursuant to this Act may be
  revoked or diminished on account of the political views expressed by the
  recipient or on account of any scholarly or artistic activity that would
  be subject to the protections of academic and artistic freedom normally
  observed in universities in the United States. The Board shall ensure
  that the academic and artistic freedoms of all persons receiving grants
  are protected.
  `(2) The J. William Fulbright Scholarship Board shall formulate a
  policy on revocation of Fulbright grants which shall be made known to all
  grantees. Such policy shall fully protect the right to due process as well
  as the academic and artistic freedom of all grantees.'.
  (b) CONTINUED SERVICE OF MEMBERS OF BOARD OF FOREIGN SCHOLARSHIPS- Each
  member appointed to the Board of Foreign Scholarships before the date of
  the enactment of this Act shall, on and after such date, be considered to
  be a member appointed to the J. William Fulbright Scholarship Board for
  the remainder of the term for which such member was originally appointed.
  (c) REFERENCES IN LAW- Any reference in any provision of law to the Board of
  Foreign Scholarships shall, on and after the date of enactment of this Act,
  be deemed to be a reference to the J. William Fulbright Scholarship Board.
SEC. 214. CITIZEN EXCHANGES.
  Section 112 of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961
  (22 U.S.C. 2460), as amended by section 213(a)(2), is further amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(e) There is established in the Bureau of Educational and Cultural
  Affairs an Office of Citizen Exchanges. The Office shall support private
  not-for-profit organizations engaged in the exchange of persons, including
  youth, between the United States and other countries.'.
SEC. 215. UNITED STATES-SOVIET EXCHANGES.
  The Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 113. UNITED STATES-SOVIET EXCHANGES- (a) The President is authorized
  to negotiate and implement an agreement with the Union of Soviet Socialist
  Republics under which repayments made by the Soviet Union on Lend-Lease
  debts to the United States would be used to finance the exchange of
  persons between the United States and the Soviet Union for educational,
  cultural, and artistic purposes. Exchanges authorized by this section
  shall be administered pursuant to the provisions of this Act. Part of the
  funds repaid to the United States shall be in convertible currency for the
  purpose of paying the expenses associated with study and other exchange
  activities by Soviet citizens in the United States.
  `(b) Funds made available for the purposes of this section shall be available
  only to the extent and in the amounts provided for in an appropriation Act.'.
SEC. 216. SCHOLARSHIPS FOR TIBETANS.
  Of the funds authorized to be appropriated in section 203(1), not less
  than 30 scholarships shall be made available to Tibetan students and
  professionals who are outside Tibet.
SEC. 217. EXCLUSION FROM GROSS INCOME OF FELLOWSHIPS, SCHOLARSHIPS, AND
OTHER PAYMENTS TO STUDENTS, SCHOLARS, AND PARTICIPANT TRAINEES.
  Subsection (b) of section 872 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
  (relating to exclusions from gross income of nonresident alien individuals)
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(7) Payments for study, scholarly activity, and training-
  `(A) An amount received by a nonresident alien individual who is temporarily
  present in the United States as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (F),
  (J), or (M) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
  which amount is provided for study, research, advanced scholarly activity,
  and training of the individual in the United States in programs financed
  by the United States Government under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  and the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, including the
  value of contributed services and accommodations and any amount received to
  cover expenses for research, clerical help or equipment, food and lodging,
  travel, medical costs or any other expenses that are incident to such
  activity. An individual may claim the exclusion in this subparagraph for
  no more than 5 years.
  `(B) If the gross income of a nonresident alien individual who is temporarily
  present in the United States as a nonimmigrant under subparagraph (F),
  (J), or (M) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
  is zero under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, such individual shall
  not be subject to income tax filing requirements and such amounts shall
  not be subject to withholding.'.
SEC. 218. VOA PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS TO PROMOTE CHILD SURVIVAL.
  The United States Information Agency shall establish and maintain through
  the Voice of America a system of international public service announcements
  focusing on child survival techniques.
SEC. 219. VOICE OF AMERICA BROADCASTS TO TIBET.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE- Not later than 60 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Director of the United States Information
  Agency shall establish, from funds appropriated to the Voice of America,
  a service to provide Voice of America Tibetan language programming to the
  people of Tibet.
  (b) AMOUNT OF PROGRAMMING- Programming broadcasts to the people of Tibet
  pursuant to this section shall occur for not less than two hours each
  calendar day.
  (c) REPORT- Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Director of the United States Information Agency shall submit to the
  Congress a comprehensive written report detailing the implementation of
  the programming provided for in this section.
SEC. 220. AFGHANISTAN COUNTRY PLAN.
  (a) MAINTENANCE OF PLAN- The Director of the United States Information
  Agency shall maintain a comprehensive country plan for Afghanistan,
  consistent with the plan submitted to the Congress for fiscal year 1989.
  (b) Not later than March 1, 1990, the Director of the United States
  Information Agency shall submit to the Congress a report describing the
  Afghanistan country plan and including a specific outline on how that
  country plan will be adapted for implementation inside a free Afghanistan.
SEC. 221. DISTRIBUTION WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OF UNITED STATES INFORMATION
AGENCY FILM ENTITLED `LONG JOURNEY HOME'.
  Notwithstanding section 208 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act,
  Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (22 U.S.C. 1461-1(a)) and the second sentence
  of section 501 of the United States Information and Education Exchange
  Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1461)--
  (1) the Director of the United States Information Agency shall make available
  to the Archivist of the United States a master copy of the film entitled
  `Long Journey Home'; and
  (2) upon evidence that necessary United States rights and licenses have
  been secured and paid for by the person seeking domestic release of the
  film, the Archivist shall--
  (A) reimburse the Director for any expenses of the Agency in making that
  master copy available;
  (B) deposit that film in the National Archives of the United States; and
  (C) make copies of that film available for purchase and public viewing
  within the United States.
Any reimbursement to the Director pursuant to this section shall be credited
to the applicable appropriation of the United States Information Agency.
TITLE III--BOARD FOR INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Clause (A) of section 8(a)(1) of the Board for International
  Broadcasting Act of 1973 (22 U.S.C. 2877) is amended to read as follows:
  `(A) $180,330,000 fiscal year 1990; and'.
  (b) RADIO TRANSMITTER CONSTRUCTION AND MODERNIZATION- Section 8(a) of such
  Act (22 U.S.C. 2877) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
  `(3) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Board for International
  Broadcasting for radio transmitter construction and modernization $23,917,000
  for fiscal year 1990.'.
  (c) FULL FUNDING FOR CONSTRUCTION OF RELAY STATION IN ISRAEL- (1) There are
  authorized to be appropriated to the Board for International Broadcasting
  for the costs associated with construction of a relay station in Israel,
  $194,000,000 for fiscal year 1990.
  (2) Amounts appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) are authorized to remain
  available until expended.
SEC. 302. PROCUREMENT OF LEGAL SERVICES.
  Section 26(b) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956
  (22 U.S.C. 2698) is amended by striking out `International Communication
  Agency' and inserting in lieu thereof `United States Information Agency,
  the chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting,'.
SEC. 303. RADIO FREE AFGHANISTAN.
  Section 2(5) of the Board for International Broadcasting Act of 1973 (22
  U.S.C. 2871(5)) is amended by striking out `(as long as it is under Soviet
  occupation)' and inserting therein `(until the government in Kabul is
  replaced by a government achieved through a free act of self-determination)'.
TITLE IV--INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
SEC. 401. UNITED STATES MEMBERSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL SUGAR ORGANIZATION.
  The President is authorized to continue membership for the United States
  in the International Sugar Organization. Beginning in fiscal year 1991 and
  for each fiscal year thereafter, the United States-assessed contributions
  to such organization may be paid from funds appropriated to the Department
  of State under the heading `Contributions to International Organizations'.
SEC. 402. REFORM IN BUDGET DECISION-MAKING PROCEDURES OF THE UNITED NATIONS
AND ITS SPECIALIZED AGENCIES.
  (a) FINDINGS- (1) The United Nations and its specialized agencies have
  made progress in the formulation and implementation of budget reforms
  as called for by section 143 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act,
  Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (Public Law 99-93). Presidential determinations
  that were required by that and other laws confirm the progress that has
  been made in this respect.
  (2) The Congress remains concerned about the need to make further progress
  to protect the independence of the international civil service working at the
  United Nations and urges the President to make vigorous efforts to this end.
  (b) FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN BUDGET PROCEDURES- To assure financial
  responsibility in preparation of the assessed budgets of the United
  Nations and its specialized agencies, it is the sense of the Congress
  that the President should continue vigorous efforts to ensure continued
  implementation by the United Nations and its specialized agencies of
  consensus-based decision-making procedures where applicable on budgetary
  matters which assure that sufficient attention is paid to the views of the
  United States and other member states who are major financial contributors
  to such assessed budgets.
  (c) LIMITATION ON ASSESSED CONTRIBUTIONS-
  (1) For assessed contributions authorized to be appropriated by this Act,
  the President shall withhold 20 percent of the funds appropriated for the
  United States assessed contribution to the United Nations or to any of its
  specialized agencies for any calendar year until the President determines
  and reports to the Congress that the United Nations or any such agency--
  (A) has continued implementation of decision-making procedures on budgetary
  matters referred to in subsection (b); and
  (B) in the case of the United Nations--
  (i) is making further progress toward the elimination of the abuse
  of secondment in the United Nations Secretariat which undermines the
  independence of the international civil service; and
  (ii) is implementing the 15 percent reduction in the staff of the
  United Nations Secretariat (recommendation 15 of the Group of High Level
  Intergovernmental Experts to Review the Efficiency of the Administrative
  and Financial Functioning of the United Nations (Group of 18)) and that
  such reduction is being equitably applied among the nationals on such staff.
  (2) The President shall notify the Congress when each such determination
  is made. Each such notification shall include appropriate consultation
  between the President or his designated representative and the Committee
  on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Committee on
  Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the appropriations subcommittees of
  jurisdiction in both Houses of Congress.
SEC. 403. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS ON VOTING PRACTICES AT THE UNITED NATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than March 31 of each year, the Secretary
  of State shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives
  and the President of the Senate a full and complete annual report which
  assesses for the prior calendar year, with respect to each foreign country
  member of the United Nations, the voting practices of the governments of
  such countries at the United Nations, and evaluates General Assembly and
  Security Council actions and the responsiveness of those governments to
  United States policy on issues of special importance to the United States.
  (b) INFORMATION ON VOTING PRACTICES IN THE UNITED NATIONS- Such report
  shall include, with respect to voting practices and plenary actions in
  the United Nations during the preceding year, information to be compiled
  and supplied by the Permanent Representative of the United States to the
  United Nations, consisting of--
  (1) an analysis and discussion, prepared in consultation with the Secretary
  of State, of the extent to which member countries supported United States
  policy objectives at the United Nations;
  (2) an analysis and discussion, prepared in consultation with the Secretary
  of State, of actions taken by the United Nations by consensus;
  (3) with respect to plenary votes of the United Nations General Assembly--
  (A) a listing of all such votes on issues which directly affected important
  United States interests and on which the United States lobbied extensively
  and a brief description of the issues involved in each such vote;
  (B) a listing of the votes described in subparagraph (A) which provides a
  comparison of the vote cast by each member country with the vote cast by
  the United States;
  (C) a country-by-country listing of votes described in subparagraph (A); and
  (D) a listing of votes described in subparagraph (A) displayed in terms
  of United Nations regional caucus groups;
  (4) a listing of all plenary votes cast by member countries of the United
  Nations in the General Assembly which provides a comparison of the votes
  cast by each member country with the vote cast by the United States;
  (5) an analysis and discussion, prepared in consultation with the Secretary
  of State, of the extent to which other members supported United States
  policy objectives in the Security Council and a separate listing of all
  Security Council votes of each member country in comparison with the United
  States; and
  (6) a side-by-side comparison of agreement on important and overall votes
  for each member country and the United States.
  (c) FORMAT- Information required pursuant to subsection (b)(3) shall also
  be submitted, together with an explanation of the statistical methodology,
  in a format identical to that contained in chapter II of the Report to
  Congress on Voting Practices in the United Nations, dated March 14, 1988.
  (d) STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY OF STATE- Each report under subsection (a)
  shall contain a statement by the Secretary of State discussing the measures
  which have been taken to inform United States diplomatic missions of United
  Nations General Assembly and Security Council activities.
  (e) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The following provisions of law
  are repealed:
  (1) The second undesignated paragraph of section 101(b)(1) of the Foreign
  Assistance and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1984 (Public Law 98-151;
  97 Stat. 967).
  (2) Section 529 of the Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Appropriations
  Act, 1986, as enacted by Public Law 99-190 (99 Stat. 1307).
  (3) Section 528 of the Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Appropriations
  Act, 1987, as enacted by Public Law 99-500 (100 Stat. 1783) and Public
  Law 99-591 (100 Stat. 3341).
  (4) Section 528 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
  Programs Appropriations Act, 1988, as enacted by Public Law 100-202 (101
  Stat. 1329).
  (5) Section 527 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
  Programs Appropriations Act, 1989, as enacted by Public Law 100-461.
SEC. 404. POLICY ON UNESCO.
  (a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the United States withdrew from the United Nations Educational,
  Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on December 31, 1984, in
  response to grave and persistent problems in UNESCO under the then-Director
  General;
  (2) chief among these problems was the assault on the free flow
  of information supported by that Director General and the pervasive
  ideological conflict fomented by the alliance between totalitarian and
  developing nations;
  (3) UNESCO has since acquired a new Director General, Federico Mayor,
  who has pledged his support for the free flow of information, the return
  of UNESCO to the principles enunciated in its Charter, and other needed
  changes in UNESCO policy;
  (4) Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze stated on October 11, 1988,
  that the Soviet Union was responsible for `the exaggerated ideological
  approach [that] undermined tolerance intrinsic to UNESCO,' and stated that
  Soviet policy would improve in this regard;
  (5) substantial progress remains to be made in implementing the reforms
  proposed by the new Director General and in determining the degree to
  which ideological conflict has actually declined; and
  (6) when the United States withdrew from UNESCO, the policy of the United
  States was that at such time as satisfactory changes were achieved in
  UNESCO, the United States would act on reentry.
  (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State
  should monitor closely the changes achieved in UNESCO and should work with
  United States allies and the UNESCO leadership to continue to promote the
  progress necessary to permit United States reentry in UNESCO as soon as
  possible and appropriate.
SEC. 405. MEMBERSHIP OF THE PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION IN UNITED
NATIONS AGENCIES.
  No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or any other Act shall
  be available for the United Nations or any specialized agency thereof
  which accords the Palestine Liberation Organization the same standing as
  member states.
TITLE V--REFUGEE AND OTHER PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES AUDIT REQUIREMENT.
  Subsection (a) of section 8 of the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act
  of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2606) is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) PROGRAM AUDITS- Funds may not be available to the United Nations
  High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) under this or any other Act unless
  provision is made for--
  `(1) annual program audits to determine the use of UNHCR funds, including
  the use of such funds by implementing partners; and
  `(2) such audits are made available through the Department of State for
  inspection by the Comptroller General of the United States.'.
SEC. 502. WORLDWIDE REFUGEE PROTECTION.
  (a) Commendation to the Government and People of Pakistan and the Government
  and People of Malawi-
  (1) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (A) Pakistan has provided sanctuary, comfort, and care for nearly 3,000,000
  refugees from Afghanistan;
  (B) Malawi has provided sanctuary, care, and support to 640,000 refugees
  from Mozambique; and
  (C) both Pakistan and Malawi have provided humane treatment to refugees
  despite the very difficult social, economic, and political hardships their
  generosity has caused within their own borders.
  (2) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (A) the government and people of Pakistan and the government and people
  of Malawi should be highly commended for their humanitarian behavior to
  alleviate the suffering, deprivation, and cruelty inflicted upon their
  neighbors; and
  (B) the Secretary of State should convey the deep admiration and respect
  of the United States to the government of the people of Pakistan and to
  the government and people of Malawi for their ongoing efforts to support
  and care for refugees from Afghanistan and Mozambique.
  (b) REFUGEES FROM THE SOVIET UNION-
  (1) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (A) the recent increase in the number of Jews and other persecuted religious
  minority groups able to depart the Soviet Union is a significant foreign
  policy and human rights achievement which the United States should welcome
  and encourage; and
  (B) the current practice whereby United States refugee status is denied
  to some of those now leaving the Soviet Union has led to substantial
  increases in the numbers of Soviet refugees in Rome waiting to come to
  the United States.
  (2) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (A) the United States should reaffirm its commitment to facilitating the
  departure of Jews and other persecuted religious minority groups of special
  concern from the Soviet Union; and
  (B) United States refugee processing should recognize the history
  of persecution that is the compelling reason for Jews and other
  similarly-prosecuted religious minority groups to leave the Soviet
  Union and should assure that these refugees have adequate resettlement
  opportunities. The United States should make known to all Jewish refugees the
  option of emigrating to Israel under its `Law of Return'. Sufficient funds
  from this Act should be provided to fulfill the purposes of this subsection.
  (c) REFUGEES FROM INDOCHINA-
  (1) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (A) the refugee crisis in Southeast Asia remains unresolved, and large
  numbers of refugees continue to flee from Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia;
  (B) while voluntary repatriation appears to be the best solution for
  most of the 320,000 Cambodian refugees and displaced persons in Thailand,
  there are many of special humanitarian concern to the United States for
  whom resettlement opportunities must be preserved, including victims of
  torture and human rights abuses, and family reunification cases;
  (C) while the overall rate of pirate attacks on refugee boats in the
  Gulf of Thailand is lower than in previous years, the numbers of rapes
  and abductions of refugees increased from 95 in 1987 to 185 in 1988, and
  the totals for dead and missing refugees increased more than fivefold,
  from 95 in 1987 to 501 in 1988;
  (D) United States rejection rates of refugee applicants for the orderly
  departure program from Vietnam reached nearly 80 per centum in 1989, while in
  the previous decade these rejection rates never exceeded 10 per centum; and
  (E) this unannounced policy change is unfair to the thousands of Vietnamese
  who, in response to a United States invitation for an interview, have been
  waiting, often for many years, for an opportunity to leave Vietnam safely
  and legally through the orderly departure program.
  (2) It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (A) the United States Government should work with the Government of Thailand
  and with other countries of the region, and with refugee resettlement
  countries, and with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
  to assure that refugees and displaced persons continue to receive asylum
  and protection, and that resettlement opportunities for refugees and others
  of special humanitarian concern are maintained;
  (B) first asylum countries in Southeast Asia should be urged to reinstate
  the practice of providing adequate refuge for all asylum seekers, while
  carrying out the screening of such individuals;
  (C) efforts to combat pirate attacks on refugees should be continued and
  strengthened;
  (D) the United States Government should advocate the policy that no
  repatriation of asylum seekers should occur until strong and effective
  procedures are in place to guarantee that such asylum seekers will be
  returned to their countries of origin in conditions of safety and will
  not be subjected to persecution;
  (E) the United States should review procedures and criteria in the orderly
  departure program to assure that family reunion cases and others who have
  received letters of introduction for the United States are given reasonable
  opportunities to leave Vietnam; and
  (F) the United States should seek to establish a special resettlement
  program for former `reeducation camp' prisoners and their immediate families.
  (d) REFUGEES IN SOUTHERN AFRICA-
  (1) The Congress finds that--
  (A) the actions of the Government of the Republic of South Africa in
  forcing Mozambican refugees to return to their violence-plagued homeland
  in 1988 should be condemned;
  (B) the possibility exists that large numbers of Mozambican civilians in
  South Africa could face similar involuntary return to their homeland in
  1989; and
  (C) the policy of the Government of South Africa of deterring and preventing
  the entry of refugees from Mozambique by means of an electrified fence
  has resulted in the deaths of numerous refugees and should be condemned.
  (2) It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State should
  urge the Government of the Republic of South Africa to stop the forcible
  repatriation of Mozambican civilians, to dismantle the fence upon which
  numerous refugees have been electrocuted, and to invite the United Nations
  High Commissioner for Refugees to carry out his customary role of protecting
  and assisting Mozambican refugees in South Africa.
  (3) Not later than September 30, 1989, the Secretary of State shall
  submit to the Congress a report as to his actions to carry out paragraph
  (3) and the response of the Republic of South Africa, and shall provide a
  current assessment of the situation of Mozambicans in or seeking to enter
  South Africa.
  (e) REFUGEES IN THE HORN OF AFRICA-
  (1) The Congress finds that--
  (A) while hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ethiopia remain in asylum
  in contiguous countries, serious internal violence in Sudan and Somalia
  has uprooted several million civilians and precipitated a major movement
  of refugees from both countries into Ethiopia;
  (B) the Government of Ethiopia and the United Nations High Commissioner
  for Refugees have been unable to provide adequately for the humanitarian
  needs of the refugees from Sudan and Somalia now in asylum in Ethiopia; and
  (C) continuing violence in Sudan and Somalia may lead to the arrival of
  additional large numbers of refugees into Ethiopia from both countries.
  (2) It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (A) the Secretary of State should advise the Government of Ethiopia and
  the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees of the strong concern
  of the United States Government that the situation of refugees from Sudan
  and Somalia should be improved to acceptable standards; and
  (B) the Secretary of State should urge the Government of Ethiopia to permit
  cross-border deliveries of food and other humanitarian assistance to the
  people of southern Sudan, in order to stem the further flow of Sudanese
  into Ethiopia.
  (3) Not later than September 30, 1989, the Secretary of State shall submit
  to the Congress a report on the actions taken by the Government of Ethiopia
  and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to improve the living
  conditions of these refugees, measures the United States has taken and can
  take to assist in this regard, and the prospects for additional refugee
  movements from Sudan and Somalia.
  (f) TIBETAN REFUGEES- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section
  104 for the Department of State for `migration and refugee assistance'
  for fiscal year 1990, $500,000 shall be made available for assistance
  for displaced Tibetans in India and Nepal. The Secretary of State shall
  determine the best means for providing such assistance.
SEC. 503. PROHIBITION ON EXCLUSION OR DEPORTATION OF NONRESIDENT ALIENS.
  (a) TECHNICAL CORRECTION- Section 901 of the Foreign Relations Authorization
  Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note) is amended in subsection
  (a) by inserting `subject to restrictions or conditions on entry into the
  United States', after `United States', the first place it appears.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsection (d) of section 901 of the Foreign Relations
  Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (8 U.S.C. 1182 note)
  is repealed.
TITLE VI--GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION ACT
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Global Environmental Protection Assistance
  Act of 1989'.
PART A--COMMERCIAL DEBT-FOR-NATURE EXCHANGES
SEC. 611. AMENDMENT TO THE FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT.
  The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting after chapter
  6 of part I the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 7--Debt-for-Nature Exchanges
  `SEC. 461. DEFINITION- For purposes of this chapter, the term
  `debt-for-nature exchange' means the cancellation of the foreign debt of
  the government of a country in exchange for--
  `(1) that government's making available local currencies (including
  through the issuance of bonds) which are used only for eligible projects
  involving the conservation or protection of the environment in that country
  (as described in section 463); or
  `(2) that government's financial resource, and policy commitment to
  take certain specified actions to ensure the restoration, protection,
  or sustainable use of natural resources within that country; or
  `(3) a combination of assets and actions under both paragraphs (1) and (2).
  `SEC. 462. ASSISTANCE FOR COMMERCIAL DEBT EXCHANGES- (a) The Administrator of
  the Agency for International Development is authorized to furnish assistance,
  in the form of grants on such terms and conditions as may be necessary,
  to nongovernmental organizations for the purchase on the open market of
  discounted commercial debt of a foreign government of an eligible country
  which will be canceled under the terms of an agreement with that government
  as part of a debt-for-nature exchange.
  `(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a grantee (or any
  subgrantee) of the grants referred to in subsection (a) may retain interest
  earned on the proceeds of any resulting debt-for-nature exchange pending
  their disbursement for approved program purposes without deposit in the
  Treasury of the United States and without further appropriation by the
  Congress.
  `SEC. 463. ELIGIBLE PROJECTS- (a) The Administrator of the Agency
  for International Development shall seek to ensure that debt-for-nature
  exchanges under this chapter support one or more of the following activities
  by either the host government, a local private conservation group, or a
  combination thereof:
  `(1) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of the world's oceans
  and atmosphere;
  `(2) restoration, protection, or sustainable use of diverse animal and
  plan species;
  `(3) establishment, restoration, protection, and maintenance of parks
  and reserves;
  `(4) development and implementation of sound systems of natural resource
  management;
  `(5) development and support of local conservation programs;
  `(6) training programs to strengthen conservation institutions and increase
  scientific, technical, and managerial capabilities of individuals and
  organizations involved in conservation efforts;
  `(7) efforts to generate knowledge, increase understanding, and enhance
  public commitment to conservation;
  `(8) design and implementation of sound programs of land and ecosystem
  management; and
  `(9) promotion of regenerative approaches in farming, forestry, fishing,
  and watershed management.
  `(b)(1) In cooperation with nongovernmental organizations, the Administrator
  of the Agency for International Development shall seek to identify those
  areas, which because of an imminent threat, are in particular need of
  immediate attention to prevent the loss of unique biological life or
  valuable ecosystem.
  `(2) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall
  encourage as many eligible countries as possible to propose such exchanges
  with the purpose of demonstrating to a large number of governments the
  feasibility and benefits of sustainable development.
  `SEC. 464. ELIGIBLE COUNTRIES- In order for a foreign country to be
  eligible to participate in a debt-for-nature exchange under this chapter,
  the Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall
  determine that--
  `(1) the host country is fully committed to the long-term viability of the
  program or project that is to be undertaken through the debt-for-nature
  exchange;
  `(2) a long-term plan has been prepared by the host country, or private
  conservation group, which adequately provides for the long-term viability of
  the program or project that is to be undertaken through the debt-for-nature
  exchange or that such a plan will be prepared in a timely manner; and
  `(3) there is a government agency or a local nongovernmental organization,
  or combination thereof, in the host country with the capability, commitment,
  and record of environmental concern to oversee the long-term viability of
  the program or project that is to be undertaken through the debt-for-nature
  exchange.
  `SEC. 465. TERMS AND CONDITIONS- (a) The terms and conditions for making
  grants under this chapter shall be deemed to be fulfilled upon final
  approval by the Administrator of the Agency for International Development
  of the debt-for-nature exchange, a certification by the nongovernmental
  organization that the host government has accepted the terms of the exchange,
  and that the commercial debt has been canceled in the agreed upon fashion.
  `(b) Grants made under this section are intended to complement, and not
  substitute for, assistance otherwise available to a foreign country under
  this Act or any other provision of law.
  `(c) The United States Government is prohibited from accepting title
  or interest in any land in a foreign country as a condition on the debt
  exchange.
  `SEC. 466. PILOT PROGRAM FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA- (a) The Administrator of the
  Agency for International Development, in cooperation with nongovernmental
  conservation organizations, shall invite the government of each country in
  sub-Saharan Africa to submit a list of those areas of severely degraded
  national resources which threaten human survival and well-being and the
  opportunity for future economic growth or those areas of biological or
  ecological importance within the territory of that country.
  `(b) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall
  assess the list submitted by each country under subsection (a) and shall
  seek to reach agreement with the host country for the restoration and
  future sustainable use of those areas.
  `(c)(1) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development is
  authorized to make grants, on such terms and conditions as may be necessary,
  to nongovernmental organizations for the purchase on the open market of
  discounted commercial debt of a foreign government of an eligible sub-Saharan
  country in exchange for commitments by that government to restore natural
  resources identified by the host country under subsection (a) or for
  commitments to develop plans for sustainable use of such resources.
  `(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a grantee (or subgrantee)
  under this subsection may retain interest earned on the proceeds of any
  resulting debt-for-nature exchange pending their disbursement for approved
  program purposes without deposit in the Treasury of the United States and
  without further appropriation by the Congress.'.
PART B--MULTILATERAL FOREIGN ASSISTANCE COORDINATION
SEC. 621. GENERAL POLICY.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary of State should seek to
  develop an increased consideration of global warming, tropical deforestation,
  sustainable development, and biological diversity among the highest goals
  of bilateral foreign assistance programs of all countries.
SEC. 622. POLICY ON NEGOTIATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of State, acting through the United States
  representative to the Development Assistance committee of the Organization
  for Economic Coordination and Development (OECD), should initiate, at
  the earliest practicable date, negotiations among member countries on a
  coordinated approach to global warming, tropical deforestation, sustainable
  development, and biological diversity through bilateral assistance programs
  that would include--
  (1) increased consideration of the impact of developmental projects on
  global warming, tropical deforestation, and biological diversity;
  (2) reduction or elimination of funding for those projects that exacerbate
  those problems;
  (3) coordinated research and development of projects that emphasize
  sustainable use or protection of tropical forests and support for local
  conservation efforts;
  (4) expanded use of forgiveness of foreign assistance debt in exchange for
  policy changes or programs that address problems associated with global
  warming, tropical deforestation, sustainable development, and biological
  diversity;
  (5) increased use of foreign assistance funds and technical assistance
  in support of local conservation, restoration, or sustainable development
  efforts and debt-for-nature exchanges;
  (6) improved exchange of information on energy efficiency and solar and
  renewable energy sources, and a greater emphasis on the use of those
  sources of energy in developmental projects; and
  (7) increased use of environmental experts in the field to assess development
  projects for their impact on global warming, tropical deforestation,
  and biological diversity.
  (b) IMPLEMENTATION OF AGREEMENT- Negotiations described in subsection (a)
  shall seek to ensure that the recommended changes are implemented as quickly
  as possible by member countries of the Development Assistance Committee.
PART C--INTERNATIONAL DEBT EXCHANGES AND THE ENVIRONMENT
SEC. 631. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND INTERNATIONAL DEBT EXCHANGES.
  (a) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the President, acting
  through the Secretary of State, should include support for sustainable
  development and conservation projects when negotiating or facilitating
  exchanges or reductions of commercial debt of foreign countries.
  (b) GOAL- In assisting or facilitating the reduction of debt of heavily
  indebted foreign countries, either through bilateral institutions or
  multilateral institutions such as the International Monetary Fund of the
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Secretary of
  State shall support efforts to provide adequate resources for sustainable
  development and conservation projects as a component of the restructured
  debt of that country.
  (c) CRITERIA- In providing that support, the Secretary of State shall seek
  to assure that--
  (1) the host government, or a local nongovernmental organization acting with
  the support of the host government, has identified specific conservation
  or sustainable development projects it will target for assistance;
  (2) there will be in place an institution, either governmental or
  nongovernmental, that will have the commitment to assure the long-term
  viability of the project; and
  (3) a mechanism exists to allocate the resources provided for conservation
  and sustainable development projects through the debt restructuring agreement
  to the appropriate institution in a manner that will not overwhelm the
  institution or distort economic conditions in the host country.
SEC. 632. REPORTS.
  (a) REPORT ON METHODS- Within 90 days after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate and the Speaker of the House a report on the methods
  that will be used to incorporate environmental considerations into debt
  restructuring plans.
  (b) REPORT ON SUPPORT FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS- With each major agreement to
  restructure a country's foreign debt, the Secretary of State shall submit
  to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Speaker of the
  House a report on the support provided to conservation and sustainable
  development projects in a host country. That report shall describe the
  projects to be supported and the amount and form of the support provided.
PART D--WILDLIFE AND NATURE PROTECTION
SEC. 641. ELEPHANT PROTECTION.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the elephant is a unique and magnificent species, the survival of which
  is now seriously endangered by illegal hunting and poaching, as well as
  by the destruction of its habitat;
  (2) the demand for illegal ivory is a major cause of the illegal hunting
  and poaching that is now decimating elephant herds;
  (3) the United States imports ivory from countries that do not enforce
  bans against illegal hunting or which tolerate the trade in ivory from
  illegally killed elephants;
  (4) action to close the United States market to countries which tolerate
  illegal hunting of elephants or which tolerate trade in illegally killed
  elephants will reduce demand for ivory from illegal sources and will provide
  incentives to countries to enforce measures prohibiting the illegal hunting
  of elephants and the trade in ivory from illegal sources; and
  (5) urgent action is required if the elephant species is to be saved.
  (b) PROHIBITION- (1) No ivory or other elephant product may be imported
  into the United States or may be sold in any United States Government
  facility if--
  (A) the ivory or other elephant product originated from a country where
  significant numbers of elephants are killed illegally or are killed in
  numbers sufficient to reduce the optimal sustainable elephant population
  in the country; or
  (B) the ivory or other elephant product was traded in a country where there
  is any significant trade or transit traffic in the products of illegally
  killed elephants.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to antique ivory.
  (c) PUBLICATION REQUIREMENT- Not later than six months after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall cause to be published
  in the Federal Register a list of all foreign countries from which the
  imports of ivory and other elephant products are prohibited pursuant to
  subsection (b).
  (d) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `ivory' includes raw ivory and worked ivory;
  (2) the term `significant numbers of elephants killed illegally' refers
  to the lesser of (A) one thousand elephants or (B) a number killed such
  that the killing adversely affects the ability of the elephant herds in
  a country to sustain a stable population;
  (3) the term `optimal sustainable elephant population' is the largest
  population that can be supported in healthy condition by the habitat in
  the country available for elephants;
  (4) the term `significant trade' refers to ivory valued at more than
  $200,000 or the product of more than one hundred elephants; and
  (5) the term `significant transit traffic' means traffic in ivory valued
  at more than $200,000 or the product of more than one hundred elephants.
SEC. 642. AUTHORIZATION FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE INTERNATIONAL TROPICAL TIMBER
ORGANIZATION.
  The President is authorized to maintain membership of the United States
  in the International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO).
SEC. 643. AUTHORIZATION FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE
CONSERVATION OF NATURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES.
  The President is authorized to maintain membership of the United States in
  the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
  (IUCN).
SEC. 644. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP IN WILDLIFE
CONVENTIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the President $1,511,000 for
  fiscal year 1990 in support of United States participation in the following
  international environmental organizations and conventions of which--
  (1) $650,000 shall be available for dues and arrearages for United States
  contributions to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
  Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES);
  (2) $231,000 shall be available for dues and arrearages for United States
  contributions to the International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO);
  (3) $450,000 shall be available to support United States participation in
  the World Heritage Convention; and
  (4) $180,000 shall be available to support United States participation in
  the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.
PART E--GLOBAL WARMING
SEC. 651. REPORT CONCERNING GLOBAL WARMING PREVENTION INFORMATION NETWORK.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) The United States, which chairs the response strategies working group
  of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), has an interest
  in preventing global warming.
  (2) The Secretary of State urged other nations of the world to reduce the
  generation of greenhouse gases at the IPCC's first meeting.
  (3) Information and technology available in the United States, and
  internationally, on global warming and related issues could substantially
  assist in reducing the generation of greenhouse gases in developing
  countries and help prevent global warming.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- (1) Not more than 90 days after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the
  heads of other Federal agencies, shall prepare and submit to the Congress
  a report on the feasibility of establishing a global warming prevention
  information network to disseminate prompt, accurate, and comprehensive
  information concerning matters pertaining to global warming to foreign
  governments, business organizations, public and private institutions,
  and citizens of other countries.
  (2) Together with such other information as the Secretary of State considers
  appropriate, such report shall--
  (A) include recommendations as to the most appropriate means by which the
  dissemination of such information may be achieved; and
  (B) evaluate, including relevant costs, the availability of information
  concerning methods and technologies to--
  (i) reduce energy consumption through conservation and energy efficiency;
  (ii) promote the use of solar and renewable energy sources that reduce
  the amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere;
  (iii) develop safe, nontoxic replacements for chlorofluorocarbons and halons;
  (iv) promote the conservation of forest resources that help reduce the
  amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere;
  (v) assist developing countries in ecological pest management practices
  and in the proper use of agricultural and industrial chemicals;
  (vi) promote recycling and source reduction in order to reduce the volume
  of waste that must be disposed of, thus decreasing energy use and greenhouse
  gas emissions;
  (vii) coordinate international research efforts to reduce energy consumption
  and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases; and
  (viii) encourage international agreement and cooperation to reduce the
  generation of greenhouse gases.
PART F--INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION
SEC. 661. POLICY REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL LIBRARIES.
  It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (1) the United States should promote and support--
  (A) assistance to nongovernmental, independent libraries in regions with
  ecological crises and limited access to literature related to such crises,
  including those in Eastern Bloc countries, notwithstanding section 620(f)
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; and
  (B) contributions of corporate book inventories and other items related to
  environmental protection to charitable organizations, as defined by section
  501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, assisting in regions of
  environmental crisis. These contributions may include, but need not be
  limited to--
  (i) books and journals covering environmental science and related fields; and
  (ii) pollution monitoring equipment for nongovernmental watchdog
  organizations involved in environmental monitoring and reporting; and
  (2) the Internal Revenue Service should interpret section 170(e)(3)
  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to include within the term `needy'
  libraries in regions of environmental crisis that lack the capacity to
  acquire basic environmental science literature.
TITLE VII--TELEVISION BROADCASTING TO CUBA ACT
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act'.
SEC. 702. FINDINGS; PURPOSES.
  The Congress finds and declares--
  (1) that it is the policy of the United States to support the right of the
  people of Cuba to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas through
  any media and regardless of frontiers, in accordance with article 19 of
  the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
  (2) that, consonant with this policy, television broadcasting to Cuba may
  be effective in furthering the open communication of accurate information
  and ideas to the people of Cuba, in particular, information about Cuba;
  (3) that such broadcasting to Cuba, operated in a manner not inconsistent
  with the broad foreign policy of the United States and in accordance with
  high professional standards, would be in the national interest; and
  (4) that the Voice of America already broadcasts to Cuba information that
  represents America, not any single segment of American society, and includes
  a balanced and comprehensive projection of significant American thought
  and institutions but that there is a need for television broadcasts to
  Cuba which provide news, commentary, and other information about events
  in Cuba and elsewhere to promote the cause of freedom in Cuba.
SEC. 703. ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONS OF THE UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY.
  (a) AUTHORITY- (1) In order to carry out the objectives set forth in section
  702, the United States Information Agency (hereafter in this title referred
  to as the `Agency') shall provide for the open communication of information
  and ideas through the use of television broadcasting to Cuba. Television
  broadcasting to Cuba shall serve as a consistently reliable and authoritative
  source of accurate, objective, and comprehensive news.
  (2) The Director of the Agency shall establish within the Agency a Television
  Marti Service (hereafter in this title referred to as the `Service'). The
  Service shall be responsible for all television broadcasts authorized by
  this title.
  (b) STANDARDS- Television broadcasting in accordance with subsection (a)
  shall be in accordance with all Voice of America standards to ensure the
  broadcast of programs which are objective, accurate, balanced, and which
  present a variety of views.
  (c) DESIGNATION OF PROGRAM- Any program of United States Government
  television broadcasts to Cuba authorized by this section shall be designated
  the `USIA Television Marti program'.
  (d) USE OF SPECTRUM- The Federal Communications Commission shall have
  the authority to allocate by order the spectrum it determines to be
  the most practicable and efficient to further the national interests
  expressed by this title, except that no such allocation shall result
  in objectionable interference (as applied under Federal Communications
  Commission rules), with the broadcasts of any incumbent domestic licensee,
  which interference cannot be eliminated through action taken pursuant
  to subsection (e)(2). This spectrum shall be assigned in accordance with
  section 305 of the Communications Act.
  (e) INTERFERENCE WITH DOMESTIC BROADCASTING-
  (1) Broadcasting by the Service shall be conducted in accordance with
  such parameters as shall be prescribed by the Federal Communications
  Commission to preclude objectionable interference with the broadcasts of
  any incumbent domestic licensee. The Service shall be governed by at least
  the same standards regarding objectionable interference as any domestic
  licensee. The Federal Communications Commission shall monitor the operations
  of the Service. If, on the basis of such monitoring or a complaint from any
  person, the Federal Communications Commission determines (which determination
  shall be made expeditiously) that broadcastings by the Service are causing
  any objectionable interference with the transmission or reception of any
  domestic licensee, the Federal Communications Commission shall expeditiously
  notify the National Telecommunications and Information Administration. On
  the basis of such notification, the National Telecommunications and
  Information Administration shall take immediate action to eliminate the
  interference. If the interference cannot be eliminated within 72 hours of
  the notification, then regular operation of the Service shall be suspended
  and not resumed until the Federal Communications Commission determines
  that the objectionable interference is eliminated.
  (2) The Federal Communications Commission shall take such actions as are
  necessary and appropriate to assist domestic licensees in overcoming the
  adverse effects of objectionable interference caused by broadcasting by the
  Service. Such assistance may include the authorization of nondirectional
  increases in the effective radiated power of domestic television stations
  so that its coverage is equivalent to the maximum allowable for such
  facilities, to avoid any adverse effect on such stations of the broadcasts
  of the Television Marti Service.
  (3) No Federal branch or agency shall compel an incumbent domestic licensee
  to change its frequency in order to eliminate objectionable interference
  caused by broadcasting of the Service.
  (f) MONITORING OF INTERFERENCE- The Federal Communications Commission shall
  continually monitor and periodically report to the appropriate committees
  of the Congress interference to domestic broadcasts licensees--
  (1) from the operation of Cuban television and radio stations; and
  (2) from the operations of the television broadcasting to Cuba.
SEC. 704. ASSISTANCE FROM OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES.
  In order to assist the United States Information Agency in carrying out
  the provisions of this title, any agency or instrumentality of the United
  States may sell, loan, lease, or grant property (including interests therein)
  and may perform administrative and technical support and services at the
  request of the Agency.
SEC. 705. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to amounts available for
  such purposes under section 201, there are authorized to be appropriated
  to the United States Information Agency $16,000,000 for fiscal year 1990
  for television broadcasting to Cuba in accordance with the provisions of
  this title.
  (b) LIMITATION-
  (1) Subject to paragraph (2), no funds authorized to be appropriated under
  subsection (a) may be obligated or expended unless the President determines
  and notifies the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman
  of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that--
  (A) the test of television broadcasting to Cuba authorized by law has
  demonstrated television broadcasting to Cuba is feasible; and
  (B) television broadcasting to Cuba would not cause objectionable
  interference with the broadcasts of incumbent domestic licensees which could
  not be eliminated through action taken pursuant to section 703(e)(2). The
  Federal Communications Commission shall furnish to the appropriate committees
  of Congress all interim and final reports and other appropriate documentation
  concerning objectionable interference from television broadcasting to Cuba
  to domestic television licensees.
  (2) Not less than 30 days before the President makes the determination under
  paragraph (1), the President shall submit to the Congress a report which
  includes the findings of the test of television broadcasting to Cuba. The
  period for the test of television broadcasting may be extended until--
  (A) the date of the determination and notification by the President under
  paragraph (1), or
  (B) 30 days,
whichever comes first.
  (3) For purposes of paragraph (1)(A), the phrase `test of television
  broadcasting to Cuba authorized by law' refers to the test authorized by
  the first proviso under the heading `Radio Construction' of title V of the
  Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
  Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public 100-459).
  (c) AVAILABILITY- Amounts appropriated under this section are authorized
  to be made available until expended.
SEC. 706. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title--
  (1) the term `incumbent domestic licensee' means a licensee as provided
  in section 3(c) of the Communications Act of 1934 that was broadcasting
  a television signal as of January 1, 1989;
  (2) the term `appropriate committees of Congress' includes the Foreign
  Affairs Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee
  on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and
  (3) the term `Service' means the Television Marti Service established
  pursuant to section 703 of this title.
SEC. 707. ADVISORY BOARD FOR CUBA BROADCASTING.
  (a) AMENDMENTS TO THE RADIO BROADCASTING TO CUBA ACT- Section 5 of the
  Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act (22 U.S.C. 1465c) is amended--
  (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows: `advisory board
  for cuba broadcasting';
  (2) by amending subsections (a) and (b) to read as follows:
  `(a) There is established within the Office of the President the Advisory
  Board for Cuba Broadcasting (hereafter in this title referred to as the
  `Board'). The Board shall consist of nine members, appointed by the
  President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of whom not
  more than five shall be members of the same political party. The President
  shall designate one member of the Board to serve as chairperson.
  `(b) The Board shall review the effectiveness of the activities carried out
  under this title and the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act and shall make
  recommendations to the President and the Director and Associate Director
  for Broadcasting of the United States Information Agency as the Board may
  consider necessary.';
  (3) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
  `(d) The head of the Cuba Service and the head of the Television Marti
  Service shall serve, ex officio, as members of the Board.'; and
  (4) in the last sentence of subsection (e) by striking out `The ex officio
  member' and inserting in lieu thereof `The ex officio members'.
  (c) REFERENCES- A reference in any provision of law to the `Advisory Board
  for Radio Broadcasting to Cuba' shall be considered to be a reference to
  the `Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting'.
  (d) CONTINUED SERVICE OF MEMBERS OF BOARD- Members of the Advisory Board
  for Radio Broadcasting to Cuba as in existence on the day before the
  effective date of the amendment made by subsection (b) shall continue to
  serve for the remainder of the term to which each such member was appointed
  as members of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting.
  (e) WAIVER- Section 3 of the Radio Broadcasting of Cuba Act (22
  U.S.C. 1465a) is amended in the first sentence by inserting after `section
  2' the following: `and notwithstanding the limitation of section 501 of
  the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 with
  respect to the dissemination in the United States of information prepared
  for dissemination abroad to the extent such dissemination is inadvertent'.
TITLE VIII--PLO COMMITMENTS COMPLIANCE ACT OF 1989
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `PLO Commitments Compliance Act of 1989'.
SEC. 802. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) United States policy regarding contracts with the Palestine Liberation
  Organization (including its Executive Committee, the Palestine National
  Council, and any constituent groups related thereto, (hereafter in this title
  referred to as the `PLO')) set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement between
  the United States and Israel, dated September 1, 1975, stated that the
  United States `will not recognize or negotiate with the Palestine Liberation
  Organization so long as the PLO does not recognize Israel's right to exist
  and does not accept United Nations Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338';
  (2) section 1302 of the International Security and Development Cooperation
  Act of 1985 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note; Public Law 99-83), effective October 1,
  1985, stated that `no officer or employee of the United States Government
  and no agent or other individual acting on behalf of the United States
  Government shall negotiate with the PLO or any representatives thereof
  (except in emergency or humanitarian situations) unless and until the
  PLO recognizes Israel's right to exist, accepts United National Security
  Council Resolutions 242 and 338, and renounces the use of terrorism';
  (3) the Department of State statement of November 26, 1988, found that `the
  United States Government has convincing evidence that PLO elements have
  engaged in terrorism against Americans and others' and that `Mr. [Yasser]
  Arafat, Chairman of the PLO, knows of, condones, and lends support to such
  acts; he therefore is an accessory to such terrorism';
  (4) Secretary of State Shultz declared on December 14, 1988, that `the
  [PLO] today issued a statement in which is accepted United Nations Security
  Council Resolutions 242 and 338, recognized Israel's right to exist in peace
  and security, and renounced terrorism. As a result, the United States is
  prepared for a substantive dialogue with PLO representatives';
  (5) President Ronald Reagan, subsequent to the decision to open a United
  States-PLO dialogue, stated that the PLO `must demonstrate that its
  renunciation of terrorism is pervasive and permanent' and if the PLO
  reneges on its commitments, the United States `will certainly break off
  communications';
  (6) since the United States agreed to enter into a dialogue with the PLO,
  there have been several attempted incursions into Israel by the following
  PLO-affiliated groups: the Popular Struggle Front, the Palestine Liberation
  Front, the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and the
  Islamic Jihad group;
  (7) Yasser Arafat has not renounced any of these incidents, that he has
  threatened `ten bullets in the chest' to those Palestinians who advocate a
  cessation of the unrest, and that his principal deputy, Abu Iyad, as well
  as other senior Al-Fatah figures, have been quoted as saying that the PLO
  recognition of Israel and renunciation of terrorism is merely tactical
  and that a Palestinian state is but the first step in the `liberation of
  Palestine'; and
  (8) that the United States should regularly evaluate the PLO's compliance
  with the commitments made by Yasser Arafat on behalf of the PLO in Geneva
  on December 14, 1988.
SEC. 803. POLICY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Congress reiterates long-standing United States policy
  that any dialogue with the PLO be contingent upon the PLO's recognition
  of Israel's right to exist, its acceptance of United National Security
  Council Resolutions 242 and 338, and its abstention from and renunciation
  of all acts of terrorism.
  (b) POLICY TOWARD IMPLEMENTATION OF PLO COMMITMENTS- It is the sense of
  the Congress that the United States, in any discussions with the PLO,
  should seek--
  (1) the prevention of terrorism and other violent activity by the PLO or
  any of its factions; and
  (2) the implementation of concrete steps by the PLO consistent with its
  commitments to recognize Israel and renounce terrorism, including concrete
  actions that will further the peace process such as--
  (A) disbanding units which have been involved in terrorism;
  (B) publicly condemning all acts of terrorism;
  (C) ceasing the intimidation of Palestinians who advocate a cessation of
  or who do not support the unrest;
  (D) calling on the Arab states to recognize Israel and to end their economic
  boycott of Israel; and
  (E) amending the PLO's Covenant to remove provisions which undermine
  Israel's legitimacy and which call for Israel's destruction.
  (c) POLICY TOWARDS RECENT ARMED INCURSIONS INTO ISRAEL BY PLO-AFFILIATED
  GROUPS- During the next round of talks with the PLO, should such talks occur
  after the date of enactment of this Act, the representative of the United
  States should obtain from the representative of the PLO a full accounting
  of the following attempted incursions into Israel which occurred after
  Yasser Arafat's statement of December 14, 1988:
  (1) On December 26, 1988, an attempted armed infiltration into Israel by
  boat by four members of the PLO-affiliated Popular Struggle Front.
  (2) On December 28, 1988, an attempted armed infiltration into Israel by
  three members of the PLO-affiliated Palestine Liberation Front.
  (3) On January 24, 1989, an unprovoked attack on an Israeli patrol in
  Southern Lebanon by PLOaffiliated Palestine Liberation Front.
  (4) On February 5, 1989, an attempted armed infiltration into Israel by
  nine members of the PLO-affiliated Palestine Liberation Front and Popular
  Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
  (5) On February 23, 1989, an attempted attack on targets in Israel by members
  of the PLO-affiliated Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine.
  (6) On February 27, 1989, a PLO-affiliated Popular Front for the liberation
  of Palestine ambush of a pro-Israeli Southern Lebanese army vehicle.
  (7) On March 2, 1989, an attempted armed infiltration into Israel by
  four members of the PLOaffiliated Democratic Front for the Liberation of
  Palestine headed for the civilian town of Zarit.
  (8) On March 13, 1989, an attempted armed infiltration into Israel by
  three members of the PLO-aligned Palestine Liberation Front.
  (9) On March 15, 1989, an attempted attack on Israel through Gaza by two
  members of the Islamic Jihad group.
SEC. 804. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
  (a) REPORT ON ARMED INCURSIONS- In the event that talks are held with
  the PLO after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State,
  shall, within 30 days after the next round of such talks, report to the
  Senate any accounting provided by the representative of the PLO of the
  incidents described in section 803(c).
  (b) REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH COMMITMENTS- Beginning 30 days after the
  date of enactment of this Act, and every 120 days thereafter in which the
  dialogue between the United States and the PLO has not been discontinued,
  the President shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
  the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report,
  in unclassified form to the maximum extent practicable, regarding progress
  toward the achievement of the measures described in section 803(b). Such
  report shall include--
  (1) a description of actions or statements by the PLO as an organization,
  its Chairman, members of its Executive Committee, members of the Palestine
  National Council, or any constituent groups related thereto, as they relate
  to the Geneva commitments of December 1988 regarding cessation of terrorism
  and recognition of Israel's right to exist, including actions or statements
  that contend that the declared `Palestinian state' encompasses all of Israel;
  (2) a description of the steps, if any, taken by the PLO to evict or
  otherwise discipline individuals or groups taking actions inconsistent
  with the Geneva commitments;
  (3) a statement of whether the PLO, in accordance with procedures in
  Article 33 of the Palestinian National Covenant, has repealed provisions
  in that Covenant which call for Israel's destruction;
  (4) a statement of whether the PLO has repudiated its `strategy of stages'
  whereby it seeks to use a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza as
  the first step in to the total elimination of the state of Israel;
  (5) a statement of whether the PLO has called on any Arab state to recognize
  and enter direct negotiations with Israel or to end its economic boycott
  of Israel;
  (6) a statement of whether `Force 17' and the `Hawari Group', units
  directed by Yasser Arafat that have carried out terrorist attacks, have
  been disbanded and not reconstituted under different names;
  (7) a statement of whether the following PLO constituent groups conduct
  or participate in terrorist or other violent activities: the Fatah; the
  Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine; the Democratic Front for
  the Liberation of Palestine; the Arab Liberation Front; the Palestine
  Liberation Front;
  (8) a statement of the PLO's position on the unrest in the West Bank and
  Gaza, and whether the PLO threatens, through violence or other intimidation
  measures, Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza who advocate a cessation
  of or who do not support the unrest, and who might be receptive to taking
  part in elections there;
  (9) a statement of the position of the PLO regarding the prosecution
  and extradition, if so requested, of known terrorists such as Abu Abbas,
  who directed the Achille Lauro hijacking during which Leon Klinghoffer was
  murdered, and Muhammed Rashid, implicated in the 1982 bombing of a PanAm jet
  and the 1986 bombing of a TWA jet in which four Americans were killed; and
  (10) a statement of the position of the PLO on providing compensation to
  the American victims or the families of American victims of PLO terrorism.
  (c) REPORT ON POLICIES OF ARAB STATES- Not more than 30 days after the
  date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall prepare and
  submit to the Congress a report concerning the policies of Arab states
  toward the Middle East peace process, including progress toward--
  (1) public recognition of Israel's right to exist in peace and security;
  (2) ending the Arab economic boycott of Israel; and
  (3) ending efforts to expel Israel from international organizations or
  denying participation in the activities of such organizations.
TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 901. INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION.
  Subsection (s) of section 401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969 (22
  U.S.C. 290f) is amended to read as follows:
  `(s)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated $16,932,000 for fiscal
  year 1990 to carry out the purposes of this section.
  `(2) Amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) are authorized to remain
  available until expended.'.
SEC. 902. CONSIDERATION BY SENATE COMMITTEES OF CERTAIN EXPEDITED LEGISLATION.
  Section 481(h)(6)(B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
  U.S.C. 2291(h)(6)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(B) For the purpose of expediting the consideration and enactment of
  joint resolutions under this subsection, a motion to proceed to the
  consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by
  the appropriate committee shall be treated as privileged in the Senate or
  as highly privileged in the House of Representatives.'.
SEC. 903. MUNITIONS CONTROL REGISTRATION FEES.
  Section 38(b)(3)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(3)(A))
  is amended by striking out `each of the fiscal years 1988 and 1989' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `fiscal year 1990'.
SEC. 904. PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF COMMERCIAL ARMS EXPORT LICENSES.
  Section 38(g) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(g)) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(10) In order to assure prompt processing of license applications under
  this section, the office primarily responsible for export licensing
  functions under this section shall--
  `(A) notify applicants, within 10 days of receiving an application, of
  any outside agency referrals the application must undergo.
  `(B) set 30 calendar days as a target for making a determination on
  most license applications for exports to any member country of the North
  Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and other major allies, as determined
  in accordance with section 27 of this Act.
  `(C) report on a semiannual basis to the Committee on Foreign Relations
  of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
  Representatives as to what percentage of cases handled in the previous
  period have fallen within these time frames.'.
SEC. 905. PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF MILITARY ITEMS IN TIBET.
  (a) RESTRICTION ON ARMS TRANSFERS- No defense article on the United States
  Munitions List, including helicopter and helicopter parts, may be sold or
  transferred to the People's Republic of China if any United States supplied
  military equipment is used by the People's Republic of China to enforce
  martial law in Tibet, to suppress demonstrations by the Tibetan people,
  or to support violations of the human rights of the Tibetan people.
  (b) CERTIFICATION REQUIRED- Before the issuance of any license for the
  export to the People's Republic of China of an item on the United States
  Munitions List, the President shall certify to the Speaker of the House
  of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations
  of the Senate that no United States defense article has been used in
  the previous year, or is being used, to enforce martial law in Tibet, to
  suppress demonstrations by the Tibetan people, or to support violations
  of the human rights of the Tibetan people.
  (c) TERMINATION DATE-  This section shall terminate October 1, 1993.
SEC. 906. USE OF HERBICIDES FOR DRUG ERADICATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- For each foreign country in which the Department of State
  uses, or approves for use, a herbicide for the purpose of eradicating coca
  or opium by aerial application, the Assistant Secretary for International
  Narcotics Matters shall submit to the Congress a report determining--
  (1) the expected impact of that eradication on the price and availability
  of cocaine and heroin in the United States;
  (2) the extent to which aerial eradication could encourage coca or opium
  growers to align themselves with insurgent groups against legitimate
  governmental authorities, and the consequences for broader United States
  foreign policy objectives of strengthening such insurgent groups;
  (3) the total dollar amount of assistance given by the United States,
  international organizations, and local governments to help coca and opium
  growers in aerial eradication zones shift to production of licit crops,
  and the likelihood that such assistance will be adequate for this purpose;
  (4) what countermeasures coca and opium growers may take in response to
  aerial eradication of their crops, including adoption of guerrilla farming
  techniques and shifting of cultivation to more isolated areas; and
  (5) what countermeasures may be taken against aerial eradication by
  illicit drug cartels, including their recruitment of new growers in more
  isolated areas.
  (b) TIME FOR SUBMISSION OF THE REPORT- For each country in which aerial
  coca or opium eradication programs are underway on the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit the report required by this
  section as part of the annual report required by section 481(e) of the
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. For each country for which the Secretary
  approves the use of herbicides for aerial coca or opium eradication, but
  in which the eradication program is not underway on the date of enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary shall submit the report required by this section
  60 days before the beginning of the eradication program.
  (c) LIMITATION ON USE OF EQUIPMENT- No equipment or aircraft made available
  to a foreign country for narcotics control purposes under section 482 of
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be used or deployed in a location
  to which representatives of the United States Government are not permitted
  substantially free access by the government of that country.
SEC. 907. REPORT CONCERNING MEXICO.
  Not more than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
  of State and the United States Trade Representative shall prepare and
  submit to the Congress a report concerning the relationship between the
  United States and Mexico. Such report shall--
  (1) analyze potential changes in political, cultural, diplomatic, economic,
  and other factors as the United States and Mexico move toward greater
  economic integration and cooperation;
  (2) consider the feasibility and effect of a three-way meeting among Canada,
  Mexico, and the United States to discuss greater economic integration
  and cooperation;
  (3) analyze political, cultural, diplomatic, economic, and other factors
  related to the development of an economically-integrated and cooperative
  border region between Mexico and the United States; and
  (4) evaluate the adequacy of the resources of agencies which currently
  address relations between the United States and Mexico, including a
  projection of future needs to handle the increasing work load requirements
  resulting from the growing flow of goods, services, and people across the
  United States-Mexican border.
SEC. 908. PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) pursuant to Executive Order 12537, issued on October 28, 1985, the
  President established the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board;
  (2) the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board is charged
  with, among other responsibilities, assessing the quality, quantity,
  and adequacy of intelligence collection, of analysis and estimates, of
  counterintelligence, and other intelligence activities;
  (3) to fulfill its responsibilities, the President's Foreign Intelligence
  Advisory Board is provided access to certain proprietary information
  necessary to carry out its duties; and
  (4) in light of the sensitive nature of the responsibilities of and the
  information provided to the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board,
  it is in the interest of the United States for members of the Board to
  disclose fully each source of income and not be beholden to any foreign
  government and, as such, it is inappropriate for members of the Board to
  derive income from foreign governments or foreign government controlled
  entities.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this
  Act, and every 180 days thereafter, each member of the President's Foreign
  Intelligence Advisory Board shall file with the Office of Government Ethics
  a full financial disclosure report, the contents of which shall include
  all information provided for in section 202 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 909. ESTABLISHMENT OF PACIFIC BASIN FORUM.
  (a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDING- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the growing importance of United States economic, diplomatic, and
  security relations with the nations of the Pacific Basin present new
  opportunities for American initiatives in the Pacific Century ahead;
  (2) unprecedented economic growth in East Asia is promoting prosperity,
  while introducing new trade tensions into crucial bilateral relationships;
  (3) encouraging economic developments have spurred constructive moves to
  allow more democratic freedoms in several East Asian nations;
  (4) East Asia remains the site of significant regional conflicts which would
  greatly benefit from a broader dialogue on confidence-building measures; and
  (5) new diplomatic initiatives by numerous Pacific Rim countries require a
  thoughtful American response, carefully coordinated with friendly nations
  in the Pacific Basin.
  (b) FINDING AND DECLARATION- The Congress hereby finds and declares that
  it is in the interest of the United States to pursue the establishment
  of a Pacific Basin Forum for the discussion of economic, diplomatic,
  and other issues unique to the region.
  (c) POLICY- In seeking the establishment of a Pacific Basin Forum, the
  United States shall encourage the exchange of proposals to promote free
  trade and economic development and to reduce military tensions in the region.
  (d) ANNUAL SUMMIT MEETING- The President is urged to issue a call for the
  convening of an annual summit meeting with the leaders of key Pacific Rim
  nations. This group of leaders should have the broadest possible composition
  to facilitate dialogue on issues of mutual concern.
SEC. 910. DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND JUSTICE IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the United States was founded on the democratic principles that all
  men are created equal and entitled to the exercise of their human rights;
  (2) the advancement of democracy and human rights are prime objectives of
  the foreign policy of the United States;
  (3) the fundamental rights of freedom of speech, press, and peaceful assembly
  have not been adequately respected in the People's Republic of China;
  (4) the exercise of religious activities has a severely detrimental effect
  on a participant's civil, social, and economic status within the People's
  Republic of China;
  (5) the freedom of movement and the freedom to form independent trade unions,
  student organizations, and other voluntary associations are curtailed;
  (6) led by the Independent Student Union of Beijing Universities, the
  Chinese people have demonstrated their desire for democracy, human rights,
  and an end to corruption in the People's Republic of China; and
  (7) the American people desire to extend their moral support to the struggle
  for democracy, liberty, and justice within the People's Republic of China.
  (b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (1) the leadership of the People's Republic of China should take all
  necessary steps to establish a just and democratic society, with a free
  and open political system that will protect the essential human rights of
  all people living within that country; and
  (2) the Secretary of State should communicate to the leadership of the
  People's Republic of China that official violence directed at those who
  would peacefully demonstrate for democracy, liberty and justice will
  seriously damage relations with the United States.
SEC. 911. SUPPORT FOR THE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN HOUSE MUSEUM AND LIBRARY.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the former London residence of Benjamin Franklin is the only surviving
  home of Benjamin Franklin existing today and should be preserved to
  commemorate his great contributions to human liberty, science, and
  education; and
  (2) the Friends of Benjamin Franklin House and the American Franklin Friends
  Committee are twin charities dedicated to the restoration, preservation,
  and maintenance of the Benjamin Franklin House as a museum and library
  open to the public.
  (b) POLICY OF SUPPORT- The Congress hereby--
  (1) urges the people of the United States to recognize June 17, 1990, as the
  bicentennial of Benjamin Franklin's death and to celebrate Franklin's long
  and distinguished public service, his scientific and literary achievements,
  and his role as a Founding Father of our country; and
  (2) calls on the relevant agencies and departments of the Federal Government
  of the United States to recognize the important goals of the Friends of
  Benjamin Franklin House and the American Franklin Friends Committee.
SEC. 912. REPORT CONCERNING AN INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION RESERVE.
  (a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) approximately one-fifth of the world's cropland is experiencing an
  intolerable rate of soil erosion;
  (2) the cost of farm program subsidies is at record levels in many
  nations; and
  (3) the United States has taken the initiative of enrolling 31 million
  acres of agricultural land in a 10-year Conservation Reserve Program;
  (4) world food production historically has increased at an annual rate of
  2.5 percent, but world food production during the 1980's has increased at
  an average rate of more than 3 percent annually;
  (5) other grain surplus producing nations have expressed a need to limit
  agricultural production; and
  (6) all nations would benefit from the decreased agricultural subsidies
  and stabilized food production an international agricultural conservation
  reserve could provide.
  (b) REPORT REQUIRED-
  (1) Not more than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act,
  the Secretary of State shall, in consultation with other Federal agencies,
  prepare and submit a report to the Congress on the feasibility of negotiating
  an international agreement or treaty to establish an international
  agricultural conservation reserve to protect fragile agricultural soils.
  (2) Together with such information as the Secretary of State considers
  appropriate, the report required by paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation
  of the following principles:
  (A) All signatory nations should agree not to bring virgin land into crop
  production and should agree to return a certain percentage of existing
  cropland to its natural state and keep it out of production for a minimum
  of 10 years.
  (B) The amount of land to be taken out of production should be large enough
  to bring grain supplies in line with demand while still maintaining an
  adequate emergency food reserve.
  (C) Sound conservation practices should be implemented to control soil
  erosion on cropland taken out of production.
  (D) Emergency provisions should allow a portion of the land of all signatory
  nations to be put back into production if stocks fall below the level
  established for an emergency food reserve.
  (E) Individual nations could be permitted to return a portion of their
  reserve land to production if their production did not meet domestic
  consumption demand.
SEC. 913. HIGH SEAS DRIFTNET FISHING.
  (a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) fisheries conducted in the international waters of the North Pacific
  Ocean using drift gillnets are unduly exploitative and harmful to a variety
  of living resources and encourage the circumvention of conservation measures
  established by coastal states;
  (2) the lack of adequate international agreements between the United States
  and the fishing nations, as specified in the Driftnet Impact Monitoring,
  Assessment, and Control Act of 1987 (hereafter in this section referred
  to as the `Driftnet Act'), constitutes a crisis situation justifying the
  use of every available means to bring an end to these fisheries; and
  (3) no international agreement negotiated pursuant to the Driftnet Act
  can be considered adequate unless it contains provisions including, but
  not limited to--
  (A) a process to provide fisheries observer coverage on as many of the
  drift gillnet vessels operating in any given area as necessary to ensure
  that the resulting data on the bycatch of nontarget species may be applied
  with 95 percent confidence to the activities of all drift gillnet vessels
  operating in that area; and
  (B) a commitment by the fishing nation to require that each of its drift
  gillnet vessels have permanently mounted on board a sealed, self-contained
  electronic position-indicating and identification device such as a radar
  or satellite transponder.
  (b) POLICY TOWARD BOARDING FOREIGN FISHING VESSELS- The President is
  requested to consider the adoption of a new policy, consistent with
  customary principles of international law, to allow the boarding by agents
  of the United States of foreign fishing vessels engaged in fishing or
  fishing-related activities in international waters beyond the United
  States Exclusive Economic Zone in cases where United States authorities
  have reason to believe a foreign fishing vessel is operating in a manner
  that violates either United States fisheries law or customary principles
  of international fisheries law.
SEC. 914. CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS SUPPLIERS GROUP.
  (a) CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the danger of chemical and biological weapons proliferation has reached
  alarming proportions;
  (2) several less developed nations have acquired chemical and biological
  feedstocks, technology, and equipment that could be used to manufacture
  chemical and biological weapons;
  (3) the principal source of the material needed to manufacture such weapons
  is commercial firms in developed nations; and
  (4) preventing the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons would
  be facilitated by the establishment of an organization of supplier nations,
  similar in nature to the Coordinating Committee (COCOM) of supplier nations
  that coordinates controls on sensitive technology exports.
  (b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the Government of the
  United States should initiate the establishment of a formal COCOM-type
  organization of supplier nations for the purpose of coordinating policies to
  control the export of chemicals, biological agents, technology, equipment,
  and any other materiel that can be used in the manufacture of chemical
  and biological weapons.
S 1160 PCS----2
S 1160 PCS----3
S 1160 PCS----4
S 1160 PCS----5
S 1160 PCS----6
S 1160 PCS----7
S 1160 PCS----8
S 1160 PCS----9
S 1160 PCS----10