Calendar No. 67
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 173
[Report No. 102-41]
A BILL
To permit the Bell Telephone Companies to conduct research on, design,
and manufacture telecommunications equipment, and for other purposes.
April 19, 1991
Reported with amendments
S 173 RS
Calendar No. 67
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 173
[Report No. 102-41]
To permit the Bell Telephone Companies to conduct research on, design,
and manufacture telecommunications equipment, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 14 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1991
Mr. HOLLINGS (for himself, Mr. DANFORTH, Mr. BREAUX, Mr. STEVENS,
Mr. BURNS, Mr. ADAMS, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. ROTH, Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. HEFLIN,
Mr. LOTT, Mr. HATCH, Mr. FOWLER, Ms. MIKULSKI, Mr. MACK, Mr. FORD, Mr. GORE,
Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. SYMMS, Mr. NUNN, Mr. CRAIG, and Mr. HELMS)
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
April 19, 1991
Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of April 18 (legislative
day, April 9), 1991, by Mr. Hollings, with amendments
[Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]
A BILL
To permit the Bell Telephone Companies to conduct research on, design,
and manufacture telecommunications equipment, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Telecommunications Equipment  Research and
  Manufacturing Competition Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that the continued economic growth and the international
  competitiveness of American industry would be assisted by permitting the Bell
  Telephone Companies, through their affiliates, to manufacture (including
  design, development, and fabrication) telecommunications equipment and
  customer premises equipment, and to engage in research with respect to
  such equipment.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO THE COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.
  Title II of the Communications Act of 1934  (47 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`REGULATION OF MANUFACTURING BY BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
  `SEC. 227. (a) Subject to the requirements of this section and the
  regulations prescribed thereunder, a Bell Telephone Company, through an
  affiliate of that Company, notwithstanding any restriction or obligation
  imposed before the date of enactment of this section pursuant to the
  Modification of Final Judgment on the lines of business in which a Bell
  Telephone Company may engage, may manufacture and provide telecommunications
  equipment and manufacture customer premises equipment, except that
  neither a Bell Telephone Company nor any of its affiliates may engage in
  such manufacturing in conjunction with a Bell Telephone Company not so
  affiliated or any of its affiliates.
  `(b) Any manufacturing or provision authorized under subsection (a)
  shall be conducted only through an affiliate (hereafter in this section
  referred to as a `manufacturing affiliate') that is separate from any Bell
  Telephone Company.
  `(c) The Commission shall prescribe regulations to ensure that--
  `(1) such manufacturing affiliate shall maintain books, records, and
  accounts separate from its affiliated Bell Telephone Company which identify
  all transactions between the manufacturing affiliate and its affiliated
  Bell Telephone Company and, even if such manufacturing affiliate is not
  a publicly held corporation, prepare financial statements which are in
  compliance with Federal financial reporting requirements for publicly
  held corporations, file such statements with the Commission, and make such
  statements available for public inspection;
  `(2) consistent with the provisions of this section, neither a Bell Telephone
  Company nor any of its nonmanufacturing affiliates shall perform sales,
  advertising, installation, production, or maintenance operations for a
  manufacturing affiliate; except that institutional advertising, of a type
  not related to specific telecommunications equipment, carried out by the
  Bell Telephone Company or its affiliates shall be permitted if each party
  pays its pro rata share;
  `(3)(A) such manufacturing affiliate shall conduct all of its manufacturing
  within the United States and, except as otherwise provided in this
  paragraph, all component parts of customer premises equipment manufactured
  by such affiliate, and all component parts of telecommunications equipment
  manufactured by such affiliate, shall have been manufactured within the
  United  States;
  `(B) such affiliate may use component parts manufactured outside the United
  States if--
  `(i) such affiliate first makes a good faith effort to obtain equivalent
  component parts manufactured within the United States at reasonable prices,
  terms, and conditions; and
  `(ii) for the aggregate of telecommunications equipment and customer
  premises equipment manufactured and sold in the United States by such
  affiliate in any calendar year, the cost of the components manufactured
  outside the United States contained in the equipment does not exceed 40
  percent of the sales revenue derived from such equipment;
  `(C) any such affiliate that uses component parts manufactured outside
  the United States in the manufacture of telecommunications equipment and
  customer premises equipment within the United States shall--
  `(i) certify to the Commission that a good faith effort was made to obtain
  equivalent parts manufactured within the United States at reasonable prices,
  terms, and conditions, which certification shall be filed on a quarterly
  basis with the Commission and list component parts, by type, manufactured
  outside the United States; and
  `(ii) certify to the Commission on an annual basis that for the aggregate of
  telecommunications equipment and customer premises equipment manufactured
  and sold in the United States by such affiliate in the previous calendar
  year, the cost of the components manufactured outside the United States
  contained in such equipment did not exceed the percentage specified in
  subparagraph (B)(ii) or adjusted in accordance with subparagraph (G);
  `(D)(i) if the Commission determines, after reviewing the certification
  required in subparagraph (C)(i), that such affiliate failed to make the
  good faith effort required in subparagraph (B)(i) or, after reviewing the
  certification required in subparagraph (C)(ii), that such affiliate has
  exceeded the percentage specified in subparagraph (B)(ii), the Commission
  may impose penalties or forfeitures as provided for in title V of this Act;
  `(ii) any supplier claiming to be damaged because a manufacturing affiliate
  failed to make the good faith effort required in subparagraph (B)(i) may
  make complaint to the Commission as provided for in section 208 of this
  Act, or may bring suit for the recovery of actual damages for which such
  supplier claims such affiliate may be liable under the provisions of this
  Act in any district court of the United States of competent jurisdiction;
  `(E) the Commission, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall,
  on an annual basis, determine the cost of component parts manufactured
  outside the United States contained in all telecommunications equipment
  and customer premises equipment sold in the United States as a percentage
  of the revenues from sales of such equipment in the previous calendar year;
  `(F) a manufacturing affiliate may use intellectual property created outside
  the United States in the manufacture of telecommunications equipment and
  customer premises equipment in the United States;
  `(G) the Commission may not waive or alter the requirements of this
  subsection, except that the Commission, on an annual basis, shall adjust the
  percentage specified in subparagraph (B)(ii) to the percentage determined
  by the Commission, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, as
  directed in subparagraph (E);
  `(4) no more than 90  [Struck out->] per centum  [<-Struck out] percent of
  the equity of such manufacturing affiliate shall be owned by its affiliated
  Bell Telephone Company and any affiliates of that Bell Telephone Company;
  `(5) any debt incurred by such manufacturing affiliate may not be issued
  by its affiliates, and such manufacturing affiliate shall be prohibited
  from incurring debt in a manner that would permit a creditor, on default,
  to have recourse to the assets of its affiliated Bell Telephone Company's
  telecommunications services business;
  `(6) such manufacturing affiliate shall not be required to operate separately
  from the other affiliates of its affiliated Bell Telephone Company;
  `(7) if an affiliate of a Bell Telephone Company becomes affiliated with
  a manufacturing entity, such affiliate shall be treated as a manufacturing
  affiliate of that Bell Telephone Company within the meaning of subsection
  (b) and shall comply with the requirements of this section; and
  `(8) such manufacturing affiliate shall make available, without
  discrimination or self-preference as to price, delivery, terms, or
  conditions, to all local telephone exchange carriers, for use with the
  public telecommunications network, any telecommunications equipment
  manufactured by such affiliate so long as each such purchasing carrier--
  `(A) does not either manufacture telecommunications equipment, or have a
  manufacturing affiliate which manufactures telecommunications equipment, or
  `(B) agrees to make available, to the Bell Telephone Company affiliated
  with such manufacturing affiliate or any of the other affiliates of such
  [Struck out->] company,  [<-Struck out] Company, any telecommunications
  equipment manufactured by such purchasing carrier or by any entity or
  organization with which such carrier is affiliated.
  `(d)(1) The Commission shall prescribe regulations to require that each
  Bell Telephone Company shall maintain and file with the Commission full
  and complete information with respect to the protocols and technical
  requirements for connection with and use of its telephone exchange service
  facilities. Such regulations shall require each such  [Struck out->]
  company  [<-Struck out] Company to report promptly to the Commission any
  material changes or planned changes to such protocols and requirements,
  and the schedule for implementation of such changes or planned changes.
  `(2) A Bell Telephone Company shall not disclose to any of its affiliates
  any information required to be filed under paragraph (1) unless that
  information is immediately so filed.
  `(3) When two or more carriers are providing regulated telephone
  exchange service in the same area of interest, each such carrier shall
  provide to other such carriers timely information on the deployment of
  telecommunications equipment.
  `(4) The Commission may prescribe such additional regulations under this
  subsection as may be necessary to ensure that manufacturers in competition
  with a Bell Telephone Company's manufacturing affiliate have ready and
  equal access to the information required for such competition that such
  [Struck out->] company  [<-Struck out] Company makes available to its
  manufacturing affiliate.
  `(e) The Commission shall prescribe regulations requiring that any Bell
  Telephone Company which has an affiliate that engages in any manufacturing
  authorized by subsection (a) shall--
  `(1) provide, to other manufacturers of telecommunications equipment and
  customer premises equipment, opportunities to sell such equipment to such
  Bell Telephone Company which are comparable to the opportunities which
  such Company provides to its affiliates;
  `(2) not subsidize its manufacturing affiliate with revenues from its
  regulated telecommunications services; and
  `(3) only purchase equipment from its manufacturing affiliate at the open
  market price.
  `(f) A Bell Telephone Company and its affiliates may engage in close
  collaboration with any manufacturer of customer premises equipment or
  telecommunications equipment during the design and development of hardware,
  software, or combinations thereof relating to such equipment.
  `(g) The Commission may prescribe such additional rules and regulations
  as the Commission determines necessary to carry out the provisions of
  this section.
  `(h) For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
  section and the regulations prescribed thereunder, the Commission shall have
  the same authority, power, and functions with respect to any Bell Telephone
  Company as the Commission has in administering and enforcing the provisions
  of this title with respect to any common carrier subject to this Act.
  `(i) The authority of the Commission to prescribe regulations to carry out
  this section is effective on the date of enactment of this section. The
  Commission shall prescribe such regulations within one hundred and eighty
  days after such date of enactment, and the authority to engage in the
  manufacturing authorized in subsection (a) shall not take effect until
  regulations prescribed by the Commission under subsections (c), (d), and
  (e) are in effect.
  `(j) Nothing in this section shall prohibit any Bell Telephone Company
  from engaging, directly or through any affiliate, in any manufacturing
  activity in which any Company or affiliate was authorized to engage on
  the date of enactment of this section.
  `(k) As used in this section:
  `(1) The term `affiliate' means any organization or entity that, directly
  or indirectly, owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under
  common ownership with a Bell Telephone Company. Such term includes any
  organization or entity (A) in which a Bell Telephone Company and any of
  its affiliates have an equity interest of greater than 10 percent, or a
  management interest of greater than 10 percent, or (B) in which a Bell
  Telephone Company and any of its affiliates have any other significant
  financial interest.
  `(2) The term `Bell Telephone Company' means those companies listed in
  appendix A of the Modification of Final Judgment, and includes any successor
  or assign of any such company, but does not include any affiliate of any
  such company.
  `(3) The term `customer premises equipment' means equipment employed
  on the premises of a person (other than a carrier) to originate, route,
  or terminate telecommunications.
  `(4) The term `manufacturing' has the same meaning as such term has in the
  Modification of Final Judgment as interpreted in United States v. Western
  Electric, Civil Action No. 82-0192 (United States District Court, District
  of Columbia) (filed December 3, 1987).
  `(5) The term `Modification of Final Judgment' means the decree entered
  August 24, 1982, in United States v. Western Electric, Civil Action
  No. 82-0192 (United States District Court, District of Columbia).
  `(6) The term `telecommunications' means the transmission, between
  or among points specified by the user, of information of the user's
  choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as
  sent and received, by means of an electromagnetic transmission medium,
  including all instrumentalities, facilities, apparatus, and services
  (including the collection, storage, forwarding, switching, and delivery
  of such information) essential to such transmission.
  `(7) The term `telecommunications equipment' means equipment, other than
  customer premises equipment, used by a carrier to provide telecommunications
  services.
  `(8) The term `telecommunications service' means the offering for hire
  of telecommunications facilities, or of telecommunications by means of
  such facilities.'.