Calendar No. 254
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1582
A BILL
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to provide for certain forms of
assistance to Poland to ensure the success of freedom and democracy in Poland.
September 20 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported with an amendment and an amendment to the title
S 1582 RS
Calendar No. 254
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1582
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to provide for certain forms of
assistance to Poland to ensure the success of freedom and democracy in Poland.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 6, 1989
Mr. SIMON (for himself, Mr. PELL, Mr. CRANSTON, Mr. HARKIN, Mr. REID,
Mr. ROBB, Mr. METZENBAUM, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. RIEGLE, Mr. BIDEN, Mr. GRAHAM,
Mr. SARBANES, and Mr. LAUTENBERG) introduced the following bill; which was
read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations
September 20 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported by Mr. PELL, with an amendment and an amendment to the title
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
A BILL
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to provide for certain forms of
assistance to Poland to ensure the success of freedom and democracy in Poland.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
 [Struck out->] SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   This Act may be cited as the `Investment in Freedom and
 Democracy in Poland Act of 1989'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 2. RESCHEDULING OF POLAND'S DEBT. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) RESCHEDULING OF DEBT TO THE UNITED STATES- (1)(A)
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the interest payments which
 are due on the debt owed by Poland to the United States Government and
 which are payable at anytime during the period which begins on the date of
 enactment of this Act and ends on September 30, 1992, shall be rescheduled,
 subject to the approval of the President, in accordance with subparagraph
 (B). In addition, one-half of the interest payments due in fiscal years 1993
 and 1994 shall be rescheduled, subject to the approval of the President,
 in accordance with subparagraph (B). [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) All interest payments that are rescheduled pursuant
 to this subsection shall be capitalized and made a part of the principal
 payment due the United States Government at the beginning of fiscal year
 1995. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) The authority contained in paragraph (1) shall be
 exercised only to the extent and in such amounts as are provided in an
 appropriation Act. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ON DEBT RESCHEDULING- It
 is the sense of the Congress that the President should urge all members
 of the `Paris Club' creditor governments and other creditor governments,
 including the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, to adopt a rescheduling
 program for debt owed by Poland similar to the one set forth in subsection
 (a). [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) INTERPRETATION- Nothing in this section may be
 construed as contravening any agreement concluded by the `Paris Club' group
 of countries regarding the treatment of debt owed by Poland. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 3. REVOLVING INVESTMENT FUNDS FOR POLAND. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF ENDOWMENT- (1) There is hereby
 established an investment fund for the promotion of a free enterprise
 system in Poland to be known as the `United States-Poland Endowment for Free
 Enterprise' (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Endowment'). [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) The purpose of the Endowment shall be to invest funds
 made available to the Endowment in Polish and American private enterprises
 situated in Poland in order to stimulate the growth of the private sector
 in Poland. The Endowment shall, acting through an Executive Secretariat
 appointed by it, establish a facility in Poland to carry out the purpose
 described in this paragraph. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3)(A) The Endowment shall be governed by a Board of
 Directors which shall consist of four American nationals and four Polish
 nationals. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) Each American Director shall be appointed by the
 President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to serve
 a term of four years and may be reappointed to serve additional such
 terms. Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the President should submit to the Senate the names of the four initial
 American appointees. Vacancies in the positions on the Board filled by
 American Directors shall be filled in the same manner as the original
 appointments. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (C) Polish members of the Board shall be appointed for
 four-year terms by the Government of Poland in a manner to be determined
 by that government. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (4) One of the four American Directors shall be designated
 by the President to be the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and the
 Chairman shall have veto power over all investment decisions. No funds
 made available to the Endowment may be obligated or expended unless all
 the positions on the Board of Directors have been filled. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) FUNDING- (1)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision
 of law, there are hereby transferred to the Endowment out of unobligated
 funds appropriated for fiscal year 1990 under `Research, Development, Test,
 and Evaluation' accounts of the Department of Defense $300,000,000, which
 amount shall remain available until expended. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) Of the sums to be made available in fiscal year 1990,
 at least $100,000,000 may be available for private agricultural development to
 address Poland's urgent agricultural infrastructure problems. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
 adding at the end of chapter 3 of part I thereof the following new section:
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `SEC. 308. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE UNITED STATES-POLAND
 ENDOWMENT FOR FREE ENTERPRISE- (a) There are authorized to be appropriated
 for each of the fiscal years 1991 and 1992 $300,000,000 for the United
 States contribution to the United States-Poland Endowment for Free
 Enterprise. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(b) Funds appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) are
 authorized to remain available until expended.'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3)(A) Income generated from investments made by the
 Endowment shall be deposited with the Endowment, merged with funds otherwise
 available to the Endowment, and made available for the same purposes for
 which such other funds are available. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) The authority of subparagraph (A) shall be exercised only
 to such extent and in such amounts as are provided for in an appropriation
 Act. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) OTHER GOVERNMENTS' CONTRIBUTIONS- It is the sense of
 the Congress that the President should urge the international community,
 particularly the member states of the European Economic Community, to
 contribute funds to the Endowment. In the event that other governments, in
 addition to the United States and Poland, contribute funds to the Endowment,
 the President is authorized to enter into agreements to make such changes to
 the structure and membership of the Board of Directors as may be necessary
 to reflect the international composition of the Endowment. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (d) OPERATING EXPENSES AND ADMINISTRATION- (1) Of the
 funds made available to the Endowment for fiscal year 1990, $500,000 shall
 be available only for initial administrative costs and expenses associated
 with the establishment of the Endowment. Beginning in fiscal year 1991
 and thereafter, operating and other necessary expenses incurred by the
 Endowment shall derive from interest income generated by investments made
 by the Endowment. Not more than two percent of such interest income may be
 used for these operating and other necessary expenses. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) Directors shall not receive compensation, but they
 shall receive travel and other expenses directly related to their service
 on the Board. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3) The Board shall meet at least once a month for the
 first six months following the establishment of the Endowment. Succeeding
 meetings shall be as often as the Board deems necessary, and at places to
 be determined by the Board. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (4) The Comptroller General of the United States shall
 conduct an annual audit of the Endowment and, not later than 30 days
 thereafter, shall submit to the President and Congress and the Government of
 Poland a report setting forth the findings of each such audit. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 4. MODERNIZED TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM TO ENCOURAGE
 FOREIGN BUSINESS EXPANSION IN POLAND. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) CONDITIONS- The financial benefits for Poland described
 in subsection (b) shall be provided to Poland only if the Government of
 Poland uses $25,000,000 to award a competitively-bid contract or contracts
 to a United States corporation or corporations for the improvement of the
 telephone system and related modern telecommunications infrastructure in
 Poland. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) Subject to subsection (a), the following benefits to
 Poland are authorized to be made: [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) The cancellation by the United States of a debt
 of $20,681,871 owed by Poland to the United States under title I of the
 Agricultural Trade and Development Act of 1954 (Public Law 480). [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) The provision by the President of $4,318,129 in
 assistance to the Government of Poland derived from unobligated funds
 appropriated for fiscal year 1990 in `Research, Development, Test, and
 Evaluation' accounts of the Department of Defense. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 5. POLICY. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) SISTER INSTITUTIONS- It is the sense of Congress
 that the President should take steps to encourage the establishment
 of sister institution programs between American and Polish colleges
 and universities. The President shall take steps to encourage similar
 programs in the fields of medicine and health care, business management,
 environmental protection, agricultural research and marketing, and other
 fields the President deems appropriate. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY IN POLAND- Not later
 than three months after the date of enactment of this Act, the National
 Endowment for Democracy shall develop and implement a program of seminars
 on local government electoral processes and local government administration
 if such seminars are requested by the Government of Poland. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 6. TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   In the event that the President certifies to the Congress
 that the present course of democratization in Poland is significantly
 reversed, all authority to provide assistance and benefits pursuant to this
 Act shall terminate. [<-Struck out]
SHORT TITLE AND CONTENTS
  This Act, which may be cited as the `Support for East European Democracy
  (SEED) Act of 1989', shall become a new chapter of part I of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961, as amended. Such chapter shall comprise the
  following titles:
TITLE I--UNITED STATES POLICY IN EASTERN EUROPE
TITLE II--ENTERPRISE FUNDS IN POLAND AND HUNGARY
TITLE III--LABOR MARKET TRANSITION
TITLE IV--ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
TITLE V--DIMINISHING THE BURDEN OF BILATERAL AND MULTILATERAL DEBT
TITLE VI--`TAKE-OFF' TELECOMMUNICATIONS GRANT TO POLAND
TITLE VII--FACILITATING VOLUNTARY ACTION
TITLE VIII--POLICY COORDINATION AND `SEED' INFORMATION SYSTEM
TITLE IX--TRADE AND ASSISTANCE BENEFITS AND INVESTMENT TREATIES
TITLE X--SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND CULTURAL EXCHANGES
TITLE XI--MEDICAL ASSISTANCE
TITLE XII--SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS
TITLE XIII--PEACE CORPS
TITLE XIV--FOOD AID
TITLE XV--MULTILATERAL ACTION
TITLE XVI--PROGRAM ACTION AND REPORTING
TITLE I--UNITED STATES POLICY IN EASTERN EUROPE
PURPOSE
  SEC. 101. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that the United States should
  implement, beginning in fiscal year 1989, a concerted program of Support for
  East European Democracy (SEED), comprising diverse undertakings designed
  to provide cost-effective assistance to those countries of Eastern Europe
  which have taken substantive steps toward institutionalizing political
  democracy and economic pluralism.
PROGRAM OF SUPPORT FOR EAST EUROPEAN DEMOCRACY (SEED)
  SEC. 102. Funds and activities under this composite program may be referred
  to as SEED actions and shall include such activities as the following:
  (1) ENTERPRISE FUNDS- Grants for the establishment of private, nonprofit
  `Enterprise Funds', which shall be governed by Board of Directors and
  which shall, under sound economic criteria, undertake loans, grants,
  equity investments, feasibility studies, technical assistance, training,
  and other forms of aid to private enterprise activities in the Eastern
  European country for which each such Fund is established.
  (2) LABOR MARKET-ORIENTED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-  Technical assistance
  programs directed at promoting labor market reforms and facilitating
  economic adjustment.
  (3) OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION- Extension of authority for
  programs and activities of the overseas private investment corporation.
  (4) GENERALIZED SYSTEM OF PREFERENCES- Eligibility for trade benefits
  under the generalized system of preferences.
  (5) MEDICAL ASSISTANCE- Medical aid specifically targeted to overcome
  severe deficiencies in pharmaceuticals and other basic health supplies.
  (6) ASSISTANCE FOR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS- Aid designed to assist in
  the development of legal, legislative, electoral, journalistic, and other
  institutions of free, pluralist societies.
  (7) DEBT REDUCTION AND RESCHEDULING- Participation in multilateral activities
  aimed at reducing and rescheduling the international debt of particular
  East European countries, where reduction and deferral of debt payments
  can assist the process of political and economic transition.
  (8) FOOD AID- Assistance through the grant and concessional sale of
  agricultural commodities where such aid can ease critical shortages but
  not inhibit the growth of domestic markets for agricultural production
  and distribution.
  (9) WORLD BANK AND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND- United States leadership in
  supporting World Bank loans designed to modernize industry, agriculture, and
  infrastructure; and IMF programs designed to stimulate sound economic growth.
  (10) CURRENCY STABILIZATION LOANS- United States leadership in supporting
  multilateral agreement to provide government-to-government loans for currency
  stabilization where such loans can reduce inflation and thereby foster
  conditions necessary for the effective implementation of economic reforms.
  (11) CULTURAL CENTERS- Contributions toward the establishment of American
  cultural centers that can facilitate educational and cultural exchange
  and expanded understanding of Western social democracy.
  (12) SCIENCE/TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANCE- Grants for the implementation of
  bilateral agreements providing for cooperation in science and technology
  exchange.
  (13) MOST-FAVORED-NATION TRADE STATUS- The granting of temporary or
  permanent MFN status through the application of criteria and procedures
  established by the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974.
  (14) PEACE CORPS- Establishment of Peace Corps programs, focused on English
  language training and other services that can facilitate the transition
  to a modern, internationally-oriented society.
  (15) EXCHANGE ACTIVITIES- Expanded exchange activities under the Fulbright,
  International Visitors, and other programs conducted by the United States
  Information Agency.
  (16) SPECIAL `TAKE-OFF' GRANTS- Grants for special projects, such as the
  introduction of modern telephone systems and telecommunications technology,
  which are crucial in establishing the conditions for successful transition
  to political democracy and economic pluralism.
  (17) SISTER INSTITUTIONS- Establishment of sister institution programs
  between American and East European schools and universities, towns and
  cities, and other organizations in such fields as medicine and health care,
  business management, environmental protection, and agriculture.
  (18) ENVIRONMENTAL ASSISTANCE- Environmental assistance directed at
  overcoming crucial deficiencies in air and water quality and other
  determinants of a healthful society.
TITLE II--ENTERPRISE FUNDS IN POLAND AND HUNGARY
PURPOSE
  SEC. 201. For the purpose of promoting development of the Polish and
  Hungarian private sectors, including small businesses and joint ventures with
  United States and host country participants, and to promote policies and
  practices conducive to private sector development, through loans, grants,
  equity investments, feasibility studies, technical assistance, training,
  insurance, guarantees, and other measures, there shall be designated,
  in accordance with section 202, a Polish-American Enterprise Fund and a
  Hungarian-American Enterprise Fund.
AUTHORITY
  SEC. 202. (a) The President is authorized to designate two private, nonprofit
  organizations, which for the purposes of this title shall be referred to as
  the Polish-American Enterprise Fund and the Hungarian-American Enterprise
  Fund (the `Enterprise Funds'), as eligible to receive funds and support
  pursuant to section 203 upon determining that such organizations have been
  established for the purpose stated in section 201. Each such Enterprise
  Fund may be governed by a Board of Directors including private citizens
  of the United States and the respective host country.
  (b) Nothing in this Title shall be construed to make the Enterprise Funds
  agencies or establishments of the United States Government, or to make the
  officers, employees or members of the Boards of Directors of the Enterprise
  Funds officers or employees of the United States for the purposes of title
  5 of the United States Code.
FUNDING
  SEC. 203. (a) The amount of $375,000,000 of unobligated funds appropriated
  for fiscal year 1990 under `Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation'
  accounts of the Department of Defense shall be made available to the
  Enterprise funds designated pursuant to section 202. Such amounts shall
  be allocated as follows:
  (1) $300,000,000 for the Polish-American Enterprise Fund; and
  (2) $75,000,000 for the Hungarian-American Enterprise Fund.
Of the sums to be made available for Poland in fiscal year 1990, at least
one-third may be available for private agricultural development to address
Poland's urgent agricultural infrastructure problems.
  (b) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years
  1991 and 1992 $300,000,000 for the United States contribution to the
  Polish-American Enterprise Fund and $75,000,000 for the United States
  contribution to the Hungarian-American Enterprise Fund. Such sums shall
  remain available until expended.
  (c) Of the funds authorized by this section to be made available to the
  Funds, and all future funds made available, no less than 80 percent shall be
  for interest-bearing loans repayable to the Funds and investments from which
  the Funds can be expected to accrue dividends or other share-holder payments.
  (d) Such contributions to the Funds may be used for the purposes of this
  title notwithstanding any other provision of law.
GRANTS AND SUPPORT FOR THE ACTIVITIES OF THE ENTERPRISE FUNDS
  SEC. 204. (a) Funds made available pursuant to section 203 shall be granted
  to the Enterprise Funds by such executive agency as the President shall
  designate (the `Agency')--
  (1) to enable the Enterprise Funds to carry out the purposes specified in
  section 201, taking into account such considerations as internationally
  recognized worker rights, human rights, environmental factors, United States
  economic and employment effects and the likelihood of commercial viability
  of the activities receiving assistance from the Enterprise Funds, and
  (2) for the administrative expenses of each Enterprise Fund.
  (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Enterprise Funds may
  hold grant funds contributed pursuant to section 203 in interest-bearing
  accounts, prior to the disbursement of such funds for purposes specified in
  section 201, and to retain for such program purposes any interest earned
  on such deposits without returning such interest to the Treasury of the
  United States and without further appropriation by the Congress.
  (c) The Agency shall have authority, notwithstanding any other provision of
  law, to use up to $300,000 in each fiscal year of funds from such program
  account or accounts of that Agency as the Agency may determine for the
  purpose of carrying out functions under this title.
  (d) Executive branch departments or agencies shall have authority to
  conduct programs and activities, and to provide services, in support of
  the activities of the Enterprise Funds, notwithstanding any other provision
  of law.
  (e) In addition to assistance authorized in this title, commodities eligible
  for programs of assistance under section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act
  of 1949 and under title II of the Agricultural Trade Development and
  Assistance Act of 1954 may be made available to, or for the benefit of,
  the Enterprise Funds, notwithstanding the requirements of section 416(b)(7)
  of the Agricultural Act of 1949 or any other provision of law, for sale
  or barter to generate local currencies to be used by the Enterprise Funds
  for the purposes stated in section 201 hereof.
ELIGIBILITY OF THE ENTERPRISE FUNDS FOR GRANTS
  SEC. 205. (a) Grants may be made to the Enterprise Funds under this title
  only if the Enterprise Funds agree to comply with the requirements specified
  in this title.
  (b) The Enterprise Funds may provide assistance pursuant to this title
  only for programs and projects which are consistent with the purposes set
  forth in section 201.
  (c) No part of the funds of either Enterprise Fund shall inure to the
  benefit of any Board Member, officer or employee of such Enterprise Fund,
  except as salary or reasonable compensation for services.
  (d) The accounts of each enterprise Fund shall be audited annually in
  accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by independent
  certified public accountants or independent licensed public accountants
  certified or licensed by a regulatory authority of a State or other political
  subdivision of the United States. The report of each such independent
  audit shall be included in the annual report required by section 205(g).
  (e) The financial transactions undertaken pursuant to this title by each
  Enterprise Fund may be audited by the General Accounting Office in accordance
  with such principles and procedures and under such rules and regulations
  as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, so
  long as the Enterprise Fund is in receipt of United States Government grants.
  (f) The Enterprise Funds shall ensure--
  (1) that each recipient of assistance provided through the Enterprise Funds
  under this section keeps separate accounts with respect to such assistance
  and such records as may be reasonably necessary to disclose fully the amount
  and the disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of such assistance,
  the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which such
  assistance is given or used, and the amount and nature of that portion of
  the cost of the project or undertaking supplied by other sources, and such
  other records as will facilitate an effective audit; and
  (2) that the Enterprise Funds, or any of their duly authorized
  representatives, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination
  to any books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient that are
  pertinent to assistance provided through the Enterprise Funds under this
  section.
  (g) Not later than March 31 of each year, each Enterprise Fund shall
  publish an annual report for the proceeding fiscal year. The report shall
  include a comprehensive and detailed report of the concerned Enterprise
  Fund's operation, activities, financial condition, and accomplishments
  under this title.
TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE
  SEC. 205. In the event that the President certifies to the Congress that
  the present course of democratization in Poland or Hungary is significantly
  reversed, all authority to provide assistance to such country pursuant to
  this title, and other provisions of the Support for East European Democracy
  Act of 1989, shall terminate.
TITLE III--LABOR MARKET TRANSITION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
  SEC. 301. The Secretary of Labor, in consultation with representatives of
  labor and business in the United States shall--
  (1) provide technical assistance to Poland and Hungary for the implementation
  of labor market reforms; and
  (2) provide technical assistance to Poland and Hungary to facilitate
  adjustment during the period of economic transition and reform.
AUTHORITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF LABOR
  SEC. 302. In carrying out the responsibilities enumerated in section 301,
  the Secretary of Labor may--
  (1) provide technical assistance regarding policies and programs for training
  and retraining, job search and employment services, unemployment insurance,
  occupational safety and health protection, labor-management relations,
  labor statistics, analysis of productivity constraints, entrepreneurial
  support for small businesses, market-driven systems of wage and income
  determinations, job creation, employment security, the observance of
  internationally recognized worker rights (including freedom of association
  and the right to organize and bargain collectively), and other matters
  that the Secretary of Labor may deem appropriate regarding free labor
  markets and labor organizations;
  (2) accept in the name of the Department of Labor, and employ or dispose
  of in furtherance of the purposes of this title, any money or property,
  real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by gift, devise,
  bequest, or otherwise, and to accept voluntary and uncompensated services
  notwithstanding the provisions of section 3679(b) of the Revised Statutes of
  the United States: Provided, That gifts and donations of property which are
  no longer required for the discharge of the purposes of this section shall
  be reported to the Administrator of General Services for transfer, donation,
  or other disposal in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Property
  and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.), as amended;
  (3) enter into arrangements or agreements with appropriate departments,
  agencies and establishments of Poland and Hungary; and
  (4) enter into arrangements or agreements with appropriate private and
  public sector United States parties, and international organizations.
CONSULTATION WITH APPROPRIATE OFFICERS
  SEC. 303. In carrying out the responsibilities established by this title,
  the Secretary of Labor shall seek information and advice from, and consult
  with, appropriate officers of the United States.
CONSULTATION WITH LABOR AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVES
  SEC. 304. For purposes of this title, consultation between the Secretary
  of Labor and United States labor and business representatives shall not
  be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app.).
AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS
  SEC. 305. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from the funds
  appropriated or available to the Department of Labor, the Secretary of
  Labor is authorized to transfer and to obligate the following amounts for
  the purposes of carrying out this title--
  (1) $4,000,000 for technical assistance to Poland; and
  (2) $1,000,000 for technical assistance to Hungary. Funds so transferred
  shall be available for obligation immediately.
TITLE IV--ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY AUTHORITIES
  SEC. 401. In addition to specific authorities contained in any of the
  environmental statutes administered by the Environmental Protection Agency,
  the Administrator of that Agency (the `Administrator') is authorized to
  undertake such educational, policy training, research, and technical and
  financial assistance, monitoring, coordinating, and other activities as
  he may deem appropriate, either alone or in cooperation with other United
  States or foreign agencies, governments, or public or private institutions,
  in protecting the environment in Poland and Hungary.
AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS
  SEC. 402. The Administrator is authorized to use up to $3,000,000 in each
  of fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992 to carry out the purposes of this
  title. The Administrator may also use an additional $1,000,000 appropriated
  to the Environmental Protection Agency without regard to fiscal year to
  carry out the purposes of this title.
ACTIVITIES IN POLAND
  SEC. 403. The Administrator shall cooperate with Polish officials and
  experts to--
  (1) establish an air quality monitoring network in the Krakow metropolitan
  area as a part of Poland's national air monitoring network; and
  (2) improve both water quality and the availability of drinking water in
  the Krakow metropolitan area.
ACTIVITIES IN HUNGARY
  SEC. 404. The Administrator shall work with other United States and Hungarian
  officials and private parties to establish and support a regional center
  in Budapest for facilitating cooperative environmental activities between
  governmental experts and public and private organizations from the United
  States and Eastern and Western Europe.
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS AND STRATEGY
  SEC. 405. The report required by paragraph 3 of section 1602, in addition
  to describing actions already taken under this title, shall include the
  following:
  (1) ASSESSMENT OF PROBLEMS- An overall assessment of the environmental
  problems facing Poland and Hungary, including--
  (A) a relative ranking of the severity of the problems and their effects
  on both human health and the general environment;
  (B) a listing of the geographical areas of each country that have suffered
  the heaviest environmental damage, and a description of the source and
  scope of the damage; and
  (C) an assessment of the environmental performance of leading industrial
  polluters in those countries and the expected effect on pollution levels
  of industrial modernization;
  (2) PRIORITIES AND COSTS FOR ACTION- An analysis of the priorities each
  country should assign in addressing its environmental problems, and
  an estimate of the capital and human resources required to undertake a
  comprehensive program of environmental protection;
  (3) ROLE OF UNITED STATES AND MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- A statement of
  strategy for United States assistance for the next five years in Poland
  and Hungary, including--
  (A) recommendations for appropriate levels and forms of bilateral financial
  and technical assistance;
  (B) recommendations concerning United States participation in cooperative
  multilateral undertakings;
  (C) an assessment of the feasibility of debt-for-nature swaps as a technique
  of environmental protection in each country; and
  (D) recommendations for minimizing further environmental damage to Krakow,
  and for the protection and restoration of historic sites in that city.
TITLE V--DIMINISHING THE BURDEN OF BILATERAL AND MULTILATERAL DEBT
MANDATE FOR REDUCING AND RESCHEDULING POLAND'S DEBT
  SEC. 501. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that the payments due
  on the debt owned by Poland to the United States Government and payable
  during fiscal years 1990 through 1994 should be rescheduled, with all such
  payments being capitalized and made a part of the principal balance owed
  to the United States Government at the beginning of fiscal year 1995.
  (b) It is further the sense of the Congress that the United States,
  recognizing that some $8.5 billion of Poland's foreign debt lies in
  obligations to commercial banks, should include Poland in the strengthened
  debt strategy known as the Brady Plan, in order to reduce Poland's overall
  commercial debt burden.
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ON DEBT RESCHEDULING
  SEC. 502. It is the sense of the Congress that the President should urge
  all members of the `Paris Club' creditor governments and other creditor
  governments, including the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, to adopt
  a generous and early rescheduling program for debt owed by Poland similar
  to the one set forth in section 501.
DEBT-FOR-EQUITY SWAPS AND OTHER SPECIAL TECHNIQUES
  SEC. 503. (a) The President shall take all appropriate actions to
  explore and encourage innovative approaches to the reduction of the
  government-to-government and commercial debt burden of East European
  countries which have taken substantive steps toward political democracy
  and economic pluralism.
  (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President shall have
  authority, under the conditions set forth in subsection (c) to undertake
  the discounted sale, to private purchasers, of United States Government
  debt obligations of such East European countries.
  (c) The conditions referred to in subsection (b) shall be fulfilled when such
  sale will facilitate so-called debt-for-equity or debt-for-development swaps
  wherein such newly privatized debt is exchanged by the new holder of the
  obligation for local currencies, policy commitments, or other assets needed
  for development or other economic activities, or for an equity interest in
  an enterprise theretofore owned by the particular East European government.
TITLE VI--`TAKE-OFF' TELECOMMUNICATIONS GRANT TO POLAND
AUTHORIZATION
  SEC. 601. In addition to other sums provided in this Act for Poland, the sum
  of $25,000,000 shall be made available from unobligated funds appropriated
  for fiscal year 1990 in `Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation'
  accounts of the Department of Defense for a grant to provide immediate
  support for the modernization of Poland's telephone and telecommunications
  infrastructure by means of a competitively-bid contract or contracts to
  a United States corporation or corporations.
ADMINISTRATION OF GRANT
  SEC. 602. (a) The President shall execute the grant authorized in section
  601 as a cash transfer, a grant administered by the Agency for International
  Development, or any other means determined by the President to be most
  expeditious and effective in assisting Poland to create the infrastructure
  necessary for the development of a substantial private business sector.
  (b) In accordance with the criteria set forth in subsection (a), the
  President may designate as the recipient of the grant the Government
  of Poland, the Polish-American Enterprise Fund, or some other private
  sector entity.
PROTECTION OF TECHNOLOGY
  SEC. 603. In the execution of the grant authorized in section 601, the
  President shall take all steps necessary to ensure the protection of
  militarily-significant telecommunications technology, in accordance with
  criteria and restrictions normally applied by the United States Government.
TITLE VII--FACILITATING VOLUNTARY ACTION
PRIVATE VOLUNTARY SUPPORT
  SEC. 701. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that the President should take
  all possible steps to encourage across the Nation a massive outpouring of
  private contributions of money and nonperishable foods, to be collected
  by civic, religious, school, and youth organizations, for assistance to
  Poland and to Rumanian refugees in Hungary.
  (b) For the transport to Poland of nonfinancial private contributions,
  the President should--
  (1) draw upon all available authorities, including Section 1540 of the
  1985 Defense Authorization Act, to use resources of the National Guard
  and the Department of Defense (the `Denton Amendment'), and should request
  any additional authorities as needed; and
  (2) encourage maximum participation by such recognized private voluntary
  organizations as the Polish-American Congress.
SISTER INSTITUTIONS
  SEC. 702. It is the sense of the Congress that the President should
  take steps to encourage the establishment of sister institution programs
  between American and East European schools and universities, cities and
  towns, and other organizations in such fields as medicine and health care,
  business management, environmental protection, and agricultural research
  and marketing.
TITLE VIII--POLICY COORDINATION AND `SEED' INFORMATION SYSTEM
COORDINATION
  SEC. 801. The President shall designate within the Department of State a
  Coordinator of SEED Program Action, who shall be directly responsible for
  overseeing and coordinating all programs described in this chapter and all
  other activities of the United States Government conducted to further the
  purposes set forth in this chapter.
PUBLIC INFORMATION
  SEC. 802. The President shall take such steps as may be necessary to
  establish, using existing agencies of the United States Government and
  acting in cooperation with the Governments of Poland and Hungary, a SEED
  information center system, which shall serve as a central clearinghouse
  mechanism for information relating to business needs and opportunities in
  Eastern Europe and voluntary assistance to such nations.
  (b) Such system shall be organized, among other purposes, to encourage
  economically sound proposals to the Polish-American and Hungarian-American
  Enterprise Funds, and other sources of finance for the development of
  private enterprise in Eastern Europe.
  (c) Such system shall be based jointly in Washington and, until expanded,
  in Warsaw and Budapest.
TITLE IX--TRADE AND ASSISTANCE BENEFITS AND INVESTMENT TREATIES
GSP TREATMENT FOR POLAND
  SEC. 901. (a) Subsection (b) of section 502 of the Trade Act of 1974
  (19 U.S.C. 2462(b)), relating to the Generalized System of Preferences,
  is amended by striking out `Poland' in the table within such subsection.
  (b) It is the sense of the Congress that, using the authority set forth in
  subsection (a) and other authorities, the President should immediately take
  such steps as are necessary to designate Poland as a beneficiary country
  for the purposes of the Generalized System of Preferences provided for in
  title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended.
OPIC ELIGIBILITY FOR POLAND AND HUNGARY
  SEC. 902. (a) To provide for the eligibility of activities in Poland and
  Hungary for participation in programs of the Overseas Private Investment
  Corporation, Section 239(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  (22 U.S.C. 2199(f)) is amended by inserting `, Poland, Hungary,' after
  `Yugoslavia'.
  (b) In accordance with its mandate to foster private initiative and
  competition and enhance the ability of private enterprise to make its full
  contribution to the development process, the Overseas Private Investment
  Corporation shall support projects in Poland and Hungary which will result in
  enhancement of the nongovernmental sector and reduction of state involvement
  in the economy.
  (c) For purposes of this section, the term `nongovernmental sector' in
  Poland or Hungary includes private enterprises, cooperatives (insofar as
  they are not wholly administered by the Government of Poland or Hungary),
  joint ventures (including partners which are not the Government of Poland
  or Hungary or instrumentalities thereof), businesses in Poland or Hungary
  that are wholly or partly owned by United States citizens, including those
  of Polish or Hungarian descent, religious and ethnic groups (including
  the Catholic Church), and other independent social organization.
  (d) Notwithstanding subsection (c), the term `eligible investor' with
  respect to OPIC's programs in Poland and Hungary shall have the same
  meaning as contained in section 238(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
  (e) The authority of OPIC to issue insurance, reinsurance, guarantees and to
  provide any assistance under its direct loan and equity programs with respect
  to Hungary and Poland shall remain in effect until September 30, 1992.
ELIGIBILITY FOR UNITED STATES LOANS AND GUARANTEES
  SEC. 903. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, Poland and
  Hungary shall be eligible for the loan, guarantee, and other programs of
  the United States Export-Import Bank.
  (b) This section shall remain in effect until September 30, 1989.
MOST-FAVORED-NATION STATUS FOR HUNGARY
  SEC. 904. It is the sense of Congress that, upon enactment by the Government
  of Hungary of an emigration statute that fulfills the criteria set forth in
  the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974, the President should
  immediately take such steps as are necessary to designate and certify Hungary
  as eligible, on a permanent basis, for most-favored-nation trade status.
BILATERAL INVESTMENT TREATIES WITH POLAND AND HUNGARY
  SEC. 905. (a) Congress finds that the United States bilateral investment
  treaty program, initiated in 1981 to encourage and protect United States
  investments in participating countries, has resulted in a more stable and
  predictable legal framework for foreign investors in treaty countries and
  has therefore served the interests both of the United States and of our
  treaty partners.
  (b) It is therefore the sense of the Congress that the President should
  explore the feasibility of negotiating such treaties with the Governments
  of Poland and Hungary.
TITLE X--SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND CULTURAL EXCHANGES
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
  SEC. 1001. (a) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of
  State for purposes of continuing to implement the 1987 United States-Polish
  science and technology agreement--
  (1) $1,500,000 for fiscal year 1990, and
  (2) $1,560,000 for fiscal yer 1991.
  (b) For purposes of this section, the term `1987 United States-Polish
  science and technology agreement' refers to the draft agreement concluded
  in 1987 by the United States and Poland, entitled `Agreement Between the
  Government of the United States of America and the Polish People's Republic
  on Cooperation in Science and Technology and Its Funding', together with
  annexes relating thereto.
EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE
  SEC. 1002. It is the sense of the Congress that the United States should
  expand its participation in educational and cultural exchange activities
  with Poland and Hungary, using the full array of existing government and
  privately funded programs, with particular emphasis on the J. William
  Fulbright Educational Exchange Program, the International Visitor Program,
  the Samantha Smith Memorial Exchange Program, the exchange programs of the
  National Academy of Sciences, youth and student exchanges through such
  private organizations as the Experience in International Living and the
  American Field Service Committee, and research exchange sponsored by the
  International Research and Exchange Board (IREX).
FULBRIGHT BINATIONAL COMMISSIONS
  SEC. 1003. It is the sense of the Congress that, in order to facilitate
  and enhance academic and scholarly exchanges with Poland and Hungary,
  the President should take all appropriate action to establish with those
  two countries binational Fulbright commissions.
TITLE XI--MEDICAL ASSISTANCE
MEDICAL SUPPLIES, HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT, AND TRAINING OF MEDICAL PERSONNEL
FOR POLAND
  SEC. 1101. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition to
  amounts authorized to be appropriated to carry out chapter 4 of part II of
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating to the economic support fund)
  for fiscal years 1990 and 1991, there are authorized to be appropriated to
  carry out that chapter for each such fiscal year $2,000,000, which shall
  be available only--
  (1) for providing medical supplies and hospital equipment to Poland
  through private and voluntary organizations, including for the expenses or
  purchasing, transporting, and distributing such supplies and equipment; and
  (2) for training of Polish medical personnel.
TITLE XII--SUPPORT FOR DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR DEMOCRACY
  SEC. 1201. Not later than three months after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the National Endowment for Democracy shall develop and implement
  a program of seminars on local government electoral processes and local
  government administration if such seminars are requested by the Government
  of Poland.
AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE
  SEC. 1202. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in addition to
  amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated to the National Endowment
  for Democracy for fiscal years 1990 and 1991, there are authorized to be
  appropriated for each such fiscal year $2,000,000, of which--
  (1) $1,000,000 shall be available in each such fiscal year only for
  the unconditional support of democratic institutions and activities in
  Poland; and
  (2) $1,000,000 shall be available in each such fiscal year only for the
  unconditional support of democratic institutions and activities in Hungary.
TITLE XIII--PEACE CORPS
PEACE CORPS PROGRAMS FOR HUNGARY AND POLAND
  SEC. 1301. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there are hereby
  transferred to the Peace Corps out of unobligated funds appropriated
  for fiscal year 1990 under `Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation'
  accounts of the Department of Defense not less than $3,000,000 solely for
  establishing and operating programs for Hungary and Poland.
TITLE XIV--FOOD AID
STRATEGY
  SEC. 1401. (a) A principal component of the SEED program shall be the
  provision of food assistance, provided by the United States so as to
  alleviate crucial shortages that may be created in an East European country
  by the transition from state-directed controls to a free market economy.
  (b) In order to ensure the necessary quantity and diversity of such food
  assistance, the United States shall take all appropriate steps to encourage
  parallel efforts by the European Community and other food surplus nations.
  (c) In participating in such multilateral food assistance, the United
  States shall seek to strike a balance wherein food aid is supplied in
  such quantities as will be effective in overcoming severe shortages and
  dampening inflation but without impeding the development of incentives
  for private food production and marketing in recipient countries.
MANDATE FOR FOOD AID TO POLAND
  SEC. 1402. (a) Pursuant to the strategy set forth in section 1401, the
  President shall undertake to promote, with full United States participation,
  a comprehensive multilateral program of food assistance for Poland.
  (b) United States participation in such program shall be based upon
  initial food assistance allocations of $108,400,000 for fiscal year 1989,
  made by the President using available authorities, and should entail all
  additional assistance in fiscal year 1990 and beyond as may be necessary
  to pursue an effective food aid strategy in Poland.
  (c) Noting that the European Community has initiated food aid to Poland at
  an annual level of $140,000,000, Congress hereby declares its readiness to
  act promptly to approve all authorities and appropriations requested by
  the President in order that the United States may call upon the European
  Community to provide further food assistance to Poland, beginning in fiscal
  year 1990, on a matching United States-European Community basis.
ELIGIBILITY FOR FOOD PROGRAMS
  SEC. 1403. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including
  prohibitions on food assistance for countries in arrears on debt payments
  to the United States, Poland and Hungary shall be eligible for programs
  under the Agricultural Act of 1949 and the Agricultural Trade Development
  and Assistance Act of 1954, including sales credits from the Commodity
  Credit Corporation.
  (b) This section shall remain in effect until September 30, 1992.
TITLE XV--MULTILATERAL ACTION
PLANNING
  SEC. 1501. It is the sense of the Congress that the President should,
  on an urgent schedule, consult with the European Community and Japan,
  and with other members of the `Paris Club,' on the establishment of a
  comprehensive, multiyear program for Poland and Hungary, including debt
  rescheduling and increased food aid and investment, designed to facilitate
  an enduring economic recovery in each country and the institutionalization
  of political democracy and economic pluralism.
SPECIFIC MULTILATERAL GOALS ON POLAND
  SEC. 1502. It is the sense of the Congress that, in multilateral
  negotiations with regard to Poland, the United States should advocate
  immediate agreement and action on the following or similar goals: Provided,
  That the Government of Poland initiates all appropriate steps to dismantle
  that country's system of state controls and subsidies and inaugurate a
  plan of economic stabilization:
  (1) `Paris Club' agreement on a four-year deferral of all
  government-to-government debt repayments;
  (2) a multilateral currency-stabilization loan of $1,000,000,000; undertaken
  with urgency to accompany the initiation of Poland's economic reforms;
  (3) an International Monetary Fund standby loan during the next 12 months
  of not less than 90 percent of Poland's International Monetary Fund quota
  (approximately $700,000,000); and
  (4) a new World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan of $500,000,000 to assist
  in the relocation of workers from state firms to the private sector, and
  expedited implementation of approximately $350,000,000 in project loans
  currently under preparation.
ORGANIZATION OF MULTINATIONAL SUPPORT BY EXPERTS AND STATESMEN
  SEC. 1503. It is the sense of the Congress that the President should
  exercise international leadership in sponsoring the creation of two groups--
  (1) a multinational advisory task force of economic experts to assist the
  Polish Government in formulating a sound program of reforms, which can be
  successfully submitted to the International Monetary Fund and the World
  Bank and which can thereby satisfy the condition referred to in section
  1502 for large-scale multilateral assistance; and
  (2) a multinational committee of senior statesmen (including former
  Presidents and Secretaries of State) to provide long-range analysis and
  stimulate public support conducive to the successful transition of Poland,
  Hungary, and other East European countries to political and economic
  pluralism.
TITLE XVI--PROGRAM ACTION AND REPORTING
FINDING
  SEC. 1601. Congress finds that--
  (1) in order to provide the President with maximum flexibility and
  opportunity for innovation in implementation of the SEED Program, this
  chapter sets forth general goals and modalities for the support of democracy
  and economic pluralism in Eastern Europe;
  (2) prompt United States action in devising specific measures to achieve
  the goals outlines in this Act will be crucial in generating the public
  awareness, and the international commitment, necessary for American
  leadership of a successful multilateral program of assistance in Eastern
  Europe; and
  (3) clear-cut delineation of such United States actions at an early date
  is integral to American leadership of this effort.
SEED REPORT
  SEC. 1602. Not later than January 20, 1990, the President shall submit to the
  Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the
  Senate a comprehensive `Report on the United States Program of Support for
  East European Democracy (SEED)', which shall include a full description of--
  (1) actions under title II of this chapter regarding the establishment and
  operations of the Polish-American and Hungarian-American Enterprise Funds;
  (2) actions under title III of this chapter to assist the process of labor
  market reform and economic adjustment in Poland and Hungary;
  (3) actions under title IV of this chapter to assist in environmental
  protection in Eastern Europe, and other information set forth in section 405;
  (4) actions under title V of this chapter, and related authorities,
  to relieve the debt burden on Poland, including the utilization of
  debt-for-equity swaps;
  (5) actions under title VI of this chapter to assist Poland in creating
  a modern telephone and telecommunications system;
  (6) actions under title VII of this chapter to energize and facilitate a
  national movement of voluntary assistance to Poland;
  (7) actions under title VII of this chapter to stimulate in various
  fields the establishment of `sister institutions' in the United States
  and Eastern Europe;
  (8) actions under title VIII of this chapter to ensure effective coordination
  of SEED activities within the executive branch;
  (9) actions under title VIII of this chapter to ensure, through the use
  of existing Executive branch agencies, the effective operation of a SEED
  information system to facilitate initiatives in private enterprise and
  voluntary assistance in Eastern Europe.
  (10) actions under title IX of this chapter to assist the development of
  private enterprise in Poland and Hungary through utilization of United
  States tariff policy, the programs of the Overseas Private Investment
  Corporation and the Export-Import Bank, and bilateral investment treaties;
  (11) actions under title X of this chapter, and other authorities, to
  implement and expand effective programs of scientific, educational, and
  cultural exchange in Eastern Europe;
  (12) actions under title XI of this chapter to assist Poland with medical
  supplies and training;
  (13) actions under title XII of this chapter to assist Poland and Hungary
  through programs designed to support the development of democratic
  institutions;
  (14) actions under title XIII of this chapter to assist Hungary and Poland
  through programs of the Peace Corps;
  (15) actions under title XIV of this chapter, and other authorities, to
  provide United States food assistance to Poland as part of an effective
  and balanced multilateral effort; and
  (16) actions under title XV of this chapter, and other authorities,
  to participate in the effective use of multilateral diplomacy, through
  agencies including the Paris Club, the World Bank, and the International
  Monetary Fund, and through the establishment of special groups of economic
  experts and senior statesmen, to assist Poland's efforts to dismantle that
  country's system of state controls and subsidies and to institutionalize
  political democracy and economic pluralism.
  Amend the title so as to read `A bill to promote political democracy
  and economic pluralism in Poland and Hungary by assisting those nations
  during a critical period of transition and abetting the development in
  those nations of private business sectors, labor market reforms, and
  democratic institutions; to establish, through these steps, the framework
  for a composite program of support for East European Democracy; and for
  other purposes.'.
S 1582 RS----2
S 1582 RS----3
S 1582 RS----4