S 1324 RS
Calendar No. 317
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1324
[Report No. 101-78]
[Report No. 101-151]
[Report No. 101-174]
To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 1990 and 1991 for intelligence
activities of the United States Government, the Intelligence Community Staff,
and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and
for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 14 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. BOREN, from the Select Committee on Intelligence, reported the following
original bill; which was read twice and referred jointly to the Committees on
Armed Services, the Judiciary, and Foreign Relations for the thirty-day period
provided in section 3(b) of Senate Resolution 400, Ninety-fourth Congress,
provided that the Committee on the Judiciary be restricted to consideration of
title VI, and the Committee on Foreign Relations be restricted to consideration
of sections 602 and 603, provided that if any of said committee fails to
report said bill within the thirty-day time limit, such committee shall be
automatically discharged from further consideration of said bill in accordance
with section 3(b) of Senate Resolution 400, Ninety-fourth Congress
September 29 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Committees on Foreign Relations and the Judiciary discharged pursuant to
the provisions of section 3(b) of Senate Resolution 400, Ninety-fourth Congress
September 29 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported by Mr. NUNN, from the Committee on Armed Services, without amendment
October 3 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Ordered referred to the Select Committee on Intelligence
October 26 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Reported by Mr. BOREN, with amendments
[Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]
A BILL
To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 1990 and 1991 for intelligence
activities of the United States Government, the Intelligence Community Staff,
and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and
for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
  `Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991'.
TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  SEC. 101. Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
  years 1990 and 1991 for the conduct of the intelligence activities of the
  following elements of the United States Government:
  (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
  (2) The Department of Defense.
  (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
  (4) The National Security Agency.
  (5) The Department of the Army, the Department of Navy, and the Department
  of the Air Force.
  (6) The Department of State.
  (7) The Department of the Treasury.
  (8) The Department of Energy.
  (9) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS
  SEC. 102. The amounts authorized to be appropriated under section 101, and
  the authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 1990 and 1991, for
  the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed in such
  section, are those specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations
  [Struck out->] prepared by the Committee of Conference to accompany
  (--------------) of the One Hundred First Congress [<-Struck out] .
  That Schedule of Authorizations shall be made available to the Committee
  on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives and to the
  President. The President shall provide for suitable distribution of the
  Schedule, or of appropriate portions of the Schedule, within the executive
  branch.
PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS
  SEC. 103. The Director of Central Intelligence may authorize employment
  of civilian personnel in excess of the numbers authorized for fiscal
  years 1990 and 1991 under sections 102 and 202 of this Act when he
  determines that such action is necessary to the performance of important
  intelligence functions, except that such number may not, for any element of
  the Intelligence Community, exceed 2 per centum of the number of civilian
  personnel authorized under such sections for such element. The Director of
  Central Intelligence shall promptly notify the Permanent Select Committee
  on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee
  on Intelligence of the Senate whenever he exercises the authority granted
  by this section.
 [Struck out->] LIMITATION ON USE OF CIA RESERVE FOR CONTINGENCIES [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 104. Section 502 of the National Security Act of 1947
 (50 U.S.C. 414) is amended by adding after the semicolon and before the word
 `or' at the end of subsection (a)(2): `Provided, however, That no funds
 from the Reserve for Contingencies may be obligated or expended for any
 operation or activity for which the approval of the President is required
 by section 662 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2422), or
 for any significant change to such operation or activity, for which prior
 notice has been withheld;'. [<-Struck out]
TITLE II--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  SEC. 201. There is authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence
  Community Staff for fiscal year 1990 the sum of $25,068,000 and for fiscal
  year 1991 the sum of $24,931,000, including $4,500,000 for the Security
  Evaluation Office.
AUTHORIZATION OF PERSONNEL END STRENGTH
  SEC. 202. (a) The Intelligence Community Staff is authorized two hundred
  and thirty full-time personnel as of September 30, 1990 and two hundred
  and thirty full-time personnel as of September 30, 1991. Such personnel
  of the Intelligence Community Staff may be permanent employees of the
  Intelligence Community Staff or personnel detailed from other elements of
  the United States Government.
  (b) During fiscal years 1990 and 1991, personnel of the Intelligence
  Community Staff shall be selected so as to provide appropriate representation
  from elements of the United States Government engaged in intelligence
  activities.
  (c) During fiscal years 1990 and 1991, any officer or employee of the United
  States or a member of the Armed Forces who is detailed to the Intelligence
  Community Staff from another element of the United States Government shall
  be detailed on a reimbursable basis, except that any such officer, employee
  or member may be detailed on a nonreimbursable basis for a period of less
  than one year for the performance of temporary functions as required by
  the Director of Central Intelligence.
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF ADMINISTERED IN SAME MANNER AS CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
  SEC. 203. During fiscal years 1990 and 1991, activities and personnel of
  the Intelligence Community Staff shall be subject to the provisions of
  the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) and the Central
  Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et seq.) in the same manner
  as activities and personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency.
TITLE III--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  SEC. 301. There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 1990 the sum of
  $154,900,000 and for fiscal year 1991 the sum of $164,600,000.
TITLE IV--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNUITY
  SEC. 401. (a) The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for
  Certain Employees, as amended, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating section 236 as section 237; and
  (2) by inserting before the heading `Limitation on Number of Retirements,'
  the following:
`ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNUITY
  `SEC. 236. A participant must complete, within the last two years before
  any separation from service, except a separation because of death or
  disability, at least one year of creditable civilian service during which
  he or she is subject to this title before he or she or his or her survivors
  are eligible for an annuity under this title based on the separation. If
  a participant, except a participant separated from the service because
  of death or disability, fails to meet the service requirement of the
  preceding sentence, the amounts deducted from his or her pay during the
  period for which no eligibility is established based on the separation
  shall be returned to him or her on the separation. Failure to meet this
  service requirement does not deprive the individual or his or her survivors
  of annuity rights which attached on a previous separation.'.
  (b) This amendment shall be effective on the date of enactment of this Act.
DEATH IN SERVICE BENEFIT FOR FORMER SPOUSES
  SEC. 402. (a) Section 232(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
  Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended, is amended--
  (1) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) thereof the following new sentence:
  `Payment of death in service benefits for former spouses is also subject
  to paragraph (4) of this subsection'; and
  (2) by adding after paragraph (3) thereof the following:
  `(4) If a former spouse eligible for death in service benefits under
  provisions of this section is or becomes eligible for survivor benefits
  under section 224, the benefits provided under this section will not be
  payable and will be superseded by the benefits provided in section 224.'.
  (b) The amendment made by this section shall take effect on November
  15, 1982.
DISABILITY RETIREMENT AND DEATH IN SERVICE BENEFITS
  SEC. 403. The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended (50
  U.S.C. 403a et seq.), is amended by adding after section 17 the following
  new section:
`SPECIAL RULES FOR DISABILITY RETIREMENT AND DEATH IN SERVICE BENEFITS WITH
RESPECT TO CERTAIN EMPLOYEES
  `SEC. 18. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an officer or
  employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system
  coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States
  Code, who--
  `(i) has five years of civilian service credit toward retirement under
  such subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code;
  `(ii) has not been designated under section 203 of the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended (50
  U.S.C. 403 note), as a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement and Disability System;
  `(iii) has become disabled during a period of assignment to the performance
  of duties that are qualifying toward such designation under section 203; and
  `(iv) satisfies the requirements for disability retirement under section
  8337 of title 5, United States Code--
shall, upon his own application or upon order of the Director, be retired on
an annuity computed in accordance with the rules prescribed in such section
231, in lieu of an annuity computed as provided by section 8337 of title 5,
United States Code.
  `(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an officer
  or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system
  coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United States Code,
  who--
  `(i) has at least eighteen months of civilian service credit toward
  retirement under such subchapter III of chapter 83, title 5, United
  States Code;
  `(ii) has not been designated under section 203 of the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended (50
  U.S.C. 403 note), as a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement and Disability System;
  `(iii) prior to separation or retirement from the Agency, dies during
  a period of assignment to the performance of duties that are qualifying
  toward such designation under such section 203; and
  `(iv) is survived by a widow or widower, former spouse, and/or a child
  or children as defined in section 204 and section 232 of the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, who
  would otherwise be entitled to an annuity under section 8341 of title 5,
  United States Code--
such widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or children of such officer
or employee shall be entitled to an annuity computed in accordance with such
section 232, in lieu of an annuity computed in accordance with section 8341
of title 5, United States Code.
  `(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an officer or employee
  of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system coverage
  under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, who--
  `(i) has completed at least eighteen months of civilian service creditable
  under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code;
  `(ii) has not been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended
  (50 U.S.C. 403 note);
  `(iii) has become disabled during a period of assignment to the performance
  of duties that are qualifying toward such designation pursuant to such
  section; and
  `(iv) satisfies the requirements for disability retirement under subchapter
  V of chapter 84, title 5, United States Code--
shall, on the officer's or employee's own application or an application by
the Director, be retired on an annuity computed as if the officer or employee,
prior to becoming disabled, had been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of
the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees,
as amended (50 U.S.C. 403 note), in lieu of the annuity amount that would
otherwise be computed under subchapter V of chapter 84 of title 5, United
States Code.
  `(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the case of an officer
  or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency subject to retirement system
  coverage under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, who--
  `(i) has at least eighteen months of civilian service creditable under
  section 8411 of title 5, United States Code;
  `(ii) has not been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended
  (50 U.S.C. 403 note);
  `(iii) prior to separation or retirement from the Agency, dies during
  a period of assignment to the performance of duties that are qualifying
  toward such designation pursuant to such section; and
  `(iv) is survived by a widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or
  children as defined in section 8441 of title 5, United States Code, who
  would be entitled to a lump-sum survivor benefit, a survivor annuity and/or
  if applicable, a supplementary annuity, under subchapter IV of chapter 84,
  title 5, United States Code--
the survivor benefit or benefits of such widow or widower, former spouse,
and/or child or children shall be computed as if the officer or employee,
prior to death, had been designated pursuant to section 302(a) of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as amended
(50 U.S.C. 403 note), in lieu of the benefit amount or amounts that would
otherwise be computed pursuant to subchapter IV of chapter 84, title 5,
United States Code.
  `(e)(1) The annuities provided under subsections (a) and (b) of this section
  shall be deemed to be annuities under chapter 83 of title 5, United States
  Code, for purposes of the other provisions of such chapter and other laws
  (including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) relating to such annuities,
  and shall be payable from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund
  established under section 8348 of such title.
  `(2) The annuities and/or other benefits provided under subsections (c)
  and (d) of this section shall be deemed to be annuities and/or benefits
  under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of the other
  provisions of such chapter and other laws (including the Internal Revenue
  Code of 1986) relating to such annuities and/or benefits, and shall be
  payable from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund established
  pursuant to section 8348 of title 5, United States Code.'.
TITLE V--PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES IMPROVEMENTS
DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE COLLEGE GIFT ACCEPTANCE AUTHORITY
  SEC. 501. (a) Chapter 155 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 2606. Gifts to support the Defense Intelligence College
  `(a) The Secretary of Defense is authorized to accept, hold, administer,
  and use gifts, to include bequests or devises, money, securities, or other
  property, both real and personal, for the purpose of aiding and facilitating
  the work of the Defense Intelligence College.
  `(b) Gifts of money and proceeds from sales of property received as gifts
  shall be deposited in the Treasury and shall be available for disbursement
  upon the order of the Secretary.
  `(c) For purposes of Federal income, estate, and gift taxation, gifts
  accepted by the Secretary under this section shall be considered to be to
  or for the use of the United States.
  `(d) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out
  this section.'.
  (b) The table of contents of chapter 155 of title 10, United States Code,
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
`2606. Gifts to support the Defense Intelligence College.'.
EXTENSION OF DIA EMPLOYEE TERMINATION AUTHORITY
  SEC. 502. Section 1604(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended
  by striking `during fiscal years 1988 and 1989'.
REQUIREMENTS FOR CITIZENSHIP FOR STAFF OF UNITED STATES ARMY RUSSIAN INSTITUTE
  SEC. 503. (a) For purposes of section 319(c) of the Immigration and
  Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1430(c)), the United States Army Russian Institute,
  located in Garmisch, Federal Republic of Germany, shall be considered to
  be an organization described in clause (1) of that section.
  (b) Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to periods of employment before,
  on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
PERMANENT SPECIAL TERMINATION AUTHORITY FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
  SEC. 504. Section 1590(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended
  by striking `during fiscal years 1988 and 1989,'.
DEFENSE ATTACHE DEATH GRATUITY
  SEC. 505. (a) During fiscal year 1990, the Secretary of Defense may
  pay a death gratuity identical to that payable under section 1489(b) of
  title 10, United States Code, to the surviving dependents of a member of
  the Armed Forces who, while serving on active duty assigned to a Defense
  attache office outside the United States, died as a result of hostile or
  terrorist activities.
  (b) The death gratuity referred to in subsection (a) may be paid with
  respect to an individual who died on or after June 15, 1988.
  (c) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress no later than March
  1, 1990, a report concerning the advisability of permanent law permitting
  the payment of death gratuities to the survivors of any member of the
  armed services who, while on active duty assigned to a Defense attache
  office outside the United States, dies as a result of hostile or terrorist
  activities.
TITLE VI--FBI ENHANCED COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AUTHORITIES
ADJUSTMENT TO DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR THE NEW YORK FIELD DIVISION
  SEC. 601. Subsection 601(a)(2) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for
  fiscal year 1989 is amended by deleting `who are subject by policy and
  practice to directed geographical transfer or reassignment'.
PERSONNEL CEILING ON UNITED STATES AND SOVIET MISSIONS
  SEC. 602. It is the sense of the Congress that the ceiling on permanent
  positions at the United States Mission to the Soviet Union and the Soviet
  Mission to the United States should not be increased unless--
  (a) the National Security Council determines that such increase is essential
  to the effective functioning of the United States Mission to the Soviet
  Union; and
  (b) the FBI is provided sufficient additional resources to fulfill its
  responsibilities resulting from the increased number of permanent positions
  at the Soviet Mission to the United States.
FBI INVESTIGATIONS OF ESPIONAGE BY PERSONS EMPLOYED BY OR ASSIGNED TO UNITED
STATES DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ABROAD
  SEC. 603. The FBI shall be responsible for the conduct of all investigations
  of violations of the espionage laws of the United States by persons employed
  by or assigned to United States diplomatic missions abroad. All departments
  and agencies shall report immediately to the FBI any information indicating
  such a violation. Other departments and agencies shall provide appropriate
  assistance to the FBI in the conduct of such investigations. Nothing in
  this provision shall be construed as establishing a defense to any criminal,
  civil, or administrative action.
TITLE VII--GENERAL PROVISIONS
INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY LAW
  SEC. 701. Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay,
  retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by
  such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases
  in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
TITLE VIII--INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
  SEC. 801. The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et
  seq.) is amended by deleting all after section 16 and adding the following:
`INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
  `SEC. 17. (a) PURPOSE; ESTABLISHMENT- In order to--
  `(1) create an objective and effective office, appropriately accountable to
  Congress, to initiate and conduct independently, inspections, investigations,
  and audits relating to programs and operations of the Central Intelligence
  Agency;
  `(2) provide leadership and recommend policies designed to promote economy,
  efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of such programs and
  operations, and to detect fraud and abuse in such programs and operations;
  and
  `(3) provide a means for keeping the Director of Central Intelligence
  fully and currently informed about problems and deficiencies relating to
  the administration of such programs and operations, and the necessity for
  and the progress of corrective actions, and, in the manner prescribed by
  this section, to ensure the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the
  House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (hereinafter referred to as
  `the intelligence committees') are kept similarly informed of significant
  problems and deficiencies as well as the necessity for and the progress
  of corrective actions,
there is hereby established in the Central Intelligence Agency an Office of
Inspector General.
  `(b) APPOINTMENT; SUPERVISION; REMOVAL-
  `(1) There shall be at the head of the Office an Inspector General who
  shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advise and consent
  of the Senate. This appointment shall be made without regard to political
  affiliation and shall be solely on the basis of integrity, compliance
  with the security standards of the Central Intelligence Agency, and prior
  experience in the field of foreign intelligence. Such appointment shall
  also be made on the basis of demonstrated ability in accounting, financial
  analysis, law, management analysis, or public administration.
  `(2) The Inspector General shall report directly to and be under the
  general supervision of the Director of Central Intelligence.
  `(3) The Director may prohibit the Inspector General from initiating,
  carrying out, or completing any audit, inspection, or investigation if he
  determines that such prohibition is necessary to protect vital national
  security interests of the United States.
  `(4) If the Director exercises any power under subsection (3), above,
  he shall submit an appropriately classified statement of the reasons
  for the exercise of such power within seven days to the intelligence
  committees. The Director shall advise the Inspector General at the time
  such report is submitted, and, to the extent consistent with the protection
  of intelligence sources and methods, provide the Inspector General with a
  copy of any such report. In such cases, the Inspector General may submit
  such comments to the intelligence committees that he may deem appropriate.
  `(5) In accordance with section 535 of title 28, United States Code, the
  Director of Central Intelligence shall report to the Attorney General
  any information, allegation, or complaint received from the Inspector
  General, relating to violations of Federal criminal law (title 18, U.S.C. et
  seq.) involving any officer or employee of the Central Intelligence Agency,
  consistent with such guidelines as may be issued by the Attorney General
  pursuant to subsection 535(b)(2) of title 28, United States Code. A copy
  of all such reports shall be furnished the Inspector General.
  `(6) The Inspector General may be removed from office only by the
  President. The President shall immediately communicate in writing to the
  intelligence committees the reasons for any such removal.
  `(c) DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES- It shall be the duty and responsibility
  of the Inspector General appointed under this section--
  `(1) to provide policy direction for and to conduct, supervise, and
  coordinate independently, the inspections, investigations, and audits
  relating to the programs and operations of the Central Intelligence Agency
  to assure they are conducted efficiently and in accordance with applicable
  law and regulations;
  `(2) to keep the Director fully and currently informed concerning
  violations of law and regulations, fraud and other serious problems,
  abuses and deficiencies that may occur in such programs and operations,
  and to report the progress made in implementing corrective action;
  `(3) to take due regard for the protection of intelligence sources and
  methods in the preparation of all reports issued by the Office of Inspector
  General, and, to the extent consistent with the purpose and objective of
  such reports, take such measures as may be appropriate to minimize the
  disclosure of intelligence sources and methods described in such reports; and
  `(4) in the execution of his responsibilities, to comply with generally
  accepted government auditing standards.
  `(d) Semiannual Reports; Immediate reports of Serious or Flagrant Problems;
  Report of Functional Problems-
  `(1) The Inspector General shall not later than June 30 and December 31
  of each year, prepare and submit to the Director of Central Intelligence
  a classified semiannual report summarizing the activities of the Office
  during the immediately preceding six-month period. Within thirty days, the
  Director shall transmit such reports to the intelligence committees with any
  comments he may deem appropriate. Such reports shall, at a minimum, include:
  `(i) a description of significant problems, abuses, and deficiencies
  relating to the administration of programs and operations of the Central
  Intelligence Agency disclosed by the Office of Inspector General during
  the reporting period;
  `(ii) a description of the recommendations for corrective action made by
  the Office of Inspector General during the reporting period with respect
  to significant problems, abuses, or deficiencies identified in subparagraph
  (i), above;
  `(iii) an identification of each significant recommendation described
  in previous semiannual reports on which corrective action has not been
  completed;
  `(iv) a certification that the Inspector General has had full and direct
  access to all information relevant to the performance of his functions;
  `(v) a description of all cases occurring during the reporting period where
  the Inspector General could not obtain documentary evidence relevant to
  any inspection, audit, or investigation due to his lack of authority to
  subpoena such information; and
  `(vi) such recommendations as he may wish to make concerning legislation
  to promote economy and efficiency in the administration of programs and
  operations undertaken by the Central Intelligence Agency, and to detect
  fraud and abuse in such programs and operations.
  `(2) The Inspector General shall report immediately to the Director of
  Central Intelligence whenever he becomes aware of particularly serious or
  flagrant problems, abuses, or deficiencies relating to the administration
  of programs or operations. The Director shall transmit such report to
  the intelligence committees within seven calendar days, together with any
  comments he may deem appropriate.
  `(3) In the event that--
  `(i) the Inspector General is unable to resolve any differences with the
  Director of Central Intelligence affecting the execution of his duties
  or responsibilities;
  `(ii) an investigation, inspection or audit carried out by the Inspector
  General should focus upon the Director or Acting Director; or
  `(iii) the Inspector General, after exhausting all possible alternatives,
  is unable to obtain significant documentary information in the course of
  an investigation,
the Inspector General shall immediately report such matter to the intelligence
committees.
  `(e) Authorities of the Inspector General.
  `(1) The Inspector General shall have direct and prompt access to the
  Director, when necessary for any purpose pertaining to the performance of
  his duties.
  `(2) The Inspector General shall have access to any employee or any
  employee of a contractor of the Central Intelligence Agency whose
  testimony is needed for the performance of his duties. In addition,
  he shall have direct access to all records, reports, audits, reviews,
  documents, papers, recommendations or other material which relate to the
  programs and operations with respect to which the Inspector General has
  responsibilities under this section. Failure on the part of any employee
  or contractor to cooperate with the Inspector General shall be grounds
  for appropriate administrative actions by the Director, to include loss
  of employment or the termination of an existing contractual relationship.
  `(3) The Inspector General is authorized to receive and investigate
  complaints or information from an employee of the Central Intelligence
  Agency concerning the existence of an activity constituting a violation
  of laws, rules, or regulations, or mismanagement, gross waste of funds,
  abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to the public
  health and safety. Once such complaint or information has been received--
  `(i) The Inspector General shall not disclose the identity of the employee
  without the consent of the employee, unless the Inspector General determines
  that such disclosure is unavoidable during the course of the investigation;
  and
  `(ii) No action constituting a reprisal, or threat of reprisal, for making
  such complaint may be taken by any employee of the Central Intelligence
  Agency in a position to take such actions, unless the complaint was made
  or the information was disclosed with the knowledge that it was false or
  with willful disregard for its truth or falsity.
  `(4) The Inspector General shall have authority to administer to or take
  from any person an oath, affirmation, or affidavit, whenever necessary in
  the performance of his duties, which oath affirmation, or affidavit when
  administered or taken by or before an employee of the Office of Inspector
  General designated by the Inspector General shall have the same force and
  effect as if administered or taken by or before an officer having a seal;
  `(5) The Inspector General shall be provided with appropriate and adequate
  office space at central and field office locations, together with such
  equipment, office supplies, maintenance services, and communications
  facilities and services as may be necessary for the operation of such
  offices;
  `(6) Subject to applicable law and the policies of the Director of Central
  Intelligence, the Inspector General shall select, appoint and employ such
  officers and employees as may be necessary to carry out his functions. In
  making such selections, the Inspector General shall ensure that such officers
  and employees have the requisite training and experience to enable him
  to carry out his duties effectively. In this regard, it is the sense of
  Congress that the Inspector General should create within his organization
  a career cadre of sufficient size to provide appropriate continuity and
  objectivity needed for the effective performance of his duties; and
  `(7) With the concurrence of the Director of Central Intelligence, the
  Inspector General may request such information or assistance as may be
  necessary for carrying out his duties and responsibilities from any federal
  agency. Upon request of the Inspector General for such information or
  assistance, the head of the federal agency involved, shall, insofar as is
  practicable and not in contravention of any existing statutory restriction
  or regulation of the federal agency concerned, furnish to the Inspector
  General, or to an authorized designee, such information or assistance.
  `(f) SEPARATE BUDGET ACCOUNT- Beginning with fiscal year 1991, and
  in accordance with procedures to be issued by the Director of Central
  Intelligence in consultation with the intelligence committees, the Director
  of Central Intelligence shall include in the National Foreign Intelligence
  Program budget a separate account for the Office of Inspector General
  established pursuant to this section.
  `(g) TRANSFER- There shall be transferred to the Office of Inspector General
  of the Central Intelligence Agency, the office of that agency referred to
  as the `Office of Inspector General'. The personnel, assets, liabilities,
  contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations,
  authorization, allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising
  from, or available to such `Office of Inspector General' are hereby
  transferred to the Office of Inspector General established pursuant to
  this section.
TITLE IX--INTELLIGENCE OVERSIGHT
  `SEC. 901. Section 662 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2422)
  is hereby repealed.
  `SEC. 902. Section 501 of title V of the National Security Act of 1947
  (50 U.S.C. 413) is amended by striking the language contained therein,
  and substituting the following new sections:
`GENERAL PROVISIONS
  `SEC. 501. (a) The President shall ensure that the Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee of the
  House of Representatives (hereinafter in this title referred to as the
  `intelligence committees') are kept fully and currently informed of the
  intelligence activities of the United States, including any significant
  anticipated intelligence activities, as required by this title: Provided,
  however, That nothing contained in this title shall be construed as requiring
  the approval of the intelligence committees as a condition precedent to
  the initiation of such activities: And provided further, however, That
  nothing contained herein shall be construed as a limitation on the power
  of the President to initiate such activities in a manner consistent with
  his powers conferred by the Constitution.
  `(b) The President shall ensure that any illegal intelligence activity is
  reported to the intelligence committees, as well as any corrective action
  that has been taken or is planned in connection with such illegal activity.
  `(c) The President and the intelligence committees shall each establish
  procedures as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this title.
  `(d) The House of Representatives and the Senate, in consultation with
  the Director of Central Intelligence, shall each establish, by rule or
  resolution of such House, procedures to protect from unauthorized disclosure
  all classified information and all information relating to intelligence
  sources and methods furnished to the intelligence committees or to Members
  of Congress under this title. In accordance with such procedures, each of
  the intelligence committees shall promptly call to the attention of its
  respective House, or to any appropriate committee or committees of its
  respective House, any matter relating to intelligence activities requiring
  the attention of such House or such committee or committees.
  `(e) As used in this section, the term `intelligence activities' includes,
  but is not limited to, `covert actions', as defined in subsection 503(e),
  below.
`REPORTING INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OTHER THAN COVERT ACTIONS
  `SEC. 502. To the extent consistent with due regard for the protection from
  unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive
  intelligence sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive matters,
  the Director of Central Intelligence and the heads of all departments,
  agencies, and other entities of the United States Government involved in
  intelligence activities shall--
  `(a) keep the intelligence committees fully and currently informed of
  all intelligence activities, other than covert actions, as defined in
  subsection 503(e), below, which are the responsibility of, are engaged
  in by, or are carried out for or on behalf of, any department, agency,
  or entity of the United States Government, including any significant
  anticipated intelligence activity and significant failures; and
  `(b) furnish the intelligence committees any information or material
  concerning intelligence activities other than covert actions which
  is within their custody or control, and which is requested by either
  of the intelligence committees in order to carry out its authorized
  responsibilities.
`PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL AND REPORTING COVERT ACTIONS
  `SEC. 503. (a) The President may authorize the conduct of `covert actions,'
  as defined herein below, by departments, agencies, or entities of the United
  States Government only when he determines such activities are necessary to
  support the foreign policy objectives of the United States and are important
  to the national security of the United States, which determination shall
  be set forth in a finding that shall meet each of the following conditions:
  `(1) Each finding shall be in writing, unless immediate action by the
  United States is required and time does not permit the preparation of a
  written finding, in which case a written record of the President's decision
  shall be contemporaneously made and shall be reduced to a written finding
  as soon as possible but in no event more than forty-eight hours after the
  decision is made;
  `(2) A finding may not authorize or sanction covert actions, or any aspect
  of such activities, which have already occurred;
  `(3) Each finding shall specify each and every department, agency, or
  entity of the United States Government authorized to fund or otherwise
  participate in any significant way in such activities: Provided, That any
  employee, contractor, or contract agent of a department, agency, or entity
  of the United States Government other than the Central Intelligence Agency
  directed to participate in any way in a covert action shall be subject
  either to the policies and regulations of the Central Intelligence Agency,
  or to written policies or regulations adopted by such department, agency,
  or entity, to govern such participation;
  `(4) Each finding shall specify whether it is contemplated that any third
  party which is not an element of, contractor or contract agent of, the
  United States Government, or is not otherwise subject to United States
  Government policies or regulations, will be used to fund or otherwise
  participate in any significant way in the covert action concerned, or be
  used to undertake the covert action concerned on behalf of the United States;
  `(5) A finding may not authorize any action intended to influence United
  States political processes, public opinion, policies or media; and
  `(6) a finding may not authorize any action which violates the Constitution
  of the United States or any statutes of the United States.
  `(b) To the extent consistent with due regard for the protection from
  unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive
  intelligence sources and methods, or other exceptionally sensitive matters,
  the Director of Central Intelligence and the heads of all departments,
  agencies, and other entities of the United States Government involved in
  a covert action shall--
  `(1) keep the intelligence committees fully and currently informed of
  all covert actions which are the responsibility of, are engaged in by,
  or are carried out for or on behalf of, any department, agency, or entity
  of the United States Government, including significant failures; and
  `(2) furnish to the intelligence community any information or material
  concerning covert actions which is in the possession, custody or control
  of any department, agency, or entity of the United States Government and
  which is requested by either of the intelligence communities in order to
  carry out its authorized responsibilities.
  `(c)(1) Except as provided by subsections (2) and (3) below, the President
  shall ensure that any finding approved, or determination made, pursuant
  to subsection (a), above, shall be reported to the intelligence committees
  prior to the initiation of the activities authorized.
  `(2) On rare occasions when time is of the essence, the President may
  direct that covert actions be initiated prior to reporting such actions to
  the intelligence committees. On such occasions, the President shall fully
  inform the intelligence committees in a timely fashion and shall provide
  a statement of the reasons for not giving prior notice.
  `(3) When the President determines it is essential to meet extraordinary
  circumstances affecting vital interests of the United States, the President
  may limit the reporting of findings or determinations pursuant to subsections
  (1) and (2) of this section, to the chairmen and ranking minority members of
  the intelligence committees, the Speaker and minority leader of the House of
  Representatives, and the majority and minority leaders of the Senate. In such
  case, the President shall provide a statement of the reasons for limiting
  access to such findings or determinations in accordance with this subsection.
  `(4) In all cases reported pursuant to subsections (c)(1), (c)(2), and
  (c)(3), above, a copy of the finding, signed by the President, shall be
  provided to the chairman of each intelligence committee.
  `(d) The President shall ensure that the intelligence committees, or, if
  applicable, the Members of Congress specified in subsection (c)(3), above,
  are notified of any significant change in a previously-approved covert
  action, or any significant undertaking pursuant to a previously-approved
  finding, in the same manner as findings are reported pursuant to subsection
  (c), above.
  `(e) As used in this section, the term `covert action' means an activity
  or activities conducted by an element of the United States Government to
  influence political, economic, or military conditions abroad so that the
  role of the United States Government is not intended to be apparent or
  acknowledged publicly, but does not include--
  `(1) activities the primary purpose of which is to acquire intelligence,
  traditional counterintelligence activities, traditional activities to
  improve or maintain the operational security of the United States Government
  programs, or administrative activities;
  `(2) traditional diplomatic or military activities or routine support to
  such activities;
  `(3) traditional law enforcement activities conducted by United States
  Government law enforcement agencies or routine support to such activities; or
  `(4) activities to provide routine support to the overt activities (other
  than activities described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3)) of other United
  States Government agencies abroad.'.
  SEC. 903. Section 502 of title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
  U.S.C. 414) is redesignated as section 504 of such Act, and is amended
  by deleting the number `501' in subsection (a)(2) of such section and
  substituting in lieu thereof `503'; and is further amended by adding the
  following new subsection (d):
  `(d) No funds appropriated for, or otherwise available to, any department,
  agency, or entity of the United States Government, may be expended,
  or may be directed to be expended, for any covert action, as defined
  in subsection 503(e), above, unless and until a Presidential finding
  required by subsection 503(a), above, has been signed or otherwise issued
  in accordance with that subsection.'.
  SEC. 904. Section 503 of title V of the National Security Act of 1947
  (50 U.S.C. 415) is redesignated as section 505 of such Act.
S 1324 RS----2
S 1324 RS----3