Calendar No. 147
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1435
[Report No. 102-100]
A BILL
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control
Act, and related statutory provisions, to authorize economic and security
assistance programs for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, and for other purposes.
JULY 2, 1991
Placed on the calendar
S 1435 PCS
Calendar No. 147
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1435
[Report No. 102-100]
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control
Act, and related statutory provisions, to authorize economic and security
assistance programs for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
JULY 2, 1991
Mr. PELL from the Committee on Foreign Relations, reported, under authority
of the order of the Senate of June 24 (legislative day, June 11), 1991,
the following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar
A BILL
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control
Act, and related statutory provisions, to authorize economic and security
assistance programs for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `International Security and Economic Cooperation
  Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I--STATEMENT OF POLICY; DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
Sec. 101. General policy and development assistance policy.
Sec. 102. Agriculture, rural development, and nutrition.
Sec. 103. Population and health.
Sec. 104. Education and human resources development.
Sec. 105. Private sector, environment, energy and other development assistance.
Sec. 106. South African education.
Sec. 107. Environment and natural resources.
Sec. 108. Tropical forests.
Sec. 109. Private and voluntary organizations and cooperatives.
Sec. 110. Special waiver authority.
Sec. 111. Women in development.
Sec. 112. Economic reform and environmental protection.
TITLE II--OTHER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 201. American schools and hospitals abroad.
Sec. 202. Encouraging American schools in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
Sec. 203. Private sector credit program.
Sec. 204. Housing and other credit guarantee programs.
Sec. 205. Voluntary contributions to international organizations and programs.
Sec. 206. International disaster assistance.
Sec. 207. International narcotics control.
Sec. 208. International narcotics control authorization.
Sec. 209. Trade and development agency.
Sec. 210. Requirement of Senate confirmation for specific positions in AID.
Sec. 211. Operating expenses.
Sec. 212. Operating expenses, Office of Inspector General.
Sec. 213. Centers for university cooperation and voluntary cooperation
in development.
Sec. 214. Notification of program change.
Sec. 215. Interest on local currency accruing to nongovernmental organizations.
TITLE III--ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriation.
Sec. 302. Administration of justice.
Sec. 303. Capital and infrastructure assistance.
Sec. 304. Restriction on use of funds for nuclear facilities.
Sec. 305. Purchase of United States goods and services.
TITLE IV--MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES AND RELATED PROGRAMS
Sec. 401. Findings and purposes of military assistance.
Sec. 402. General authority.
Sec. 403. Authorization.
Sec. 404. Conditions of eligibility.
Sec. 405. Defense drawdown special authority.
Sec. 406. Stockpiles.
Sec. 407. Excess defense articles.
Sec. 408. International military education and training.
Sec. 409. Peacekeeping operations.
Sec. 410. Antiterrorism assistance.
Sec. 411. Amendments to Arms Export Control Act.
Sec. 412. Designation of major non-NATO allies.
Sec. 413. Commitment of prior year military assistance funds and prohibition
on depleted uranium shells.
Sec. 414. Policy on Middle East arms sales.
TITLE V--SPECIAL AUTHORITIES, RESTRICTIONS AND REPORTS
Sec. 501. Unanticipated contingencies.
Sec. 502. Emergency assistance.
Sec. 503. Termination expenses.
Sec. 504. Exemption of assistance through nongovernmental organizations
from restrictions.
Sec. 505. Communist countries.
Sec. 506. Military coups.
Sec. 507. Countries in arrears on assistance repayments.
Sec. 508. Monitoring of end-item use.
Sec. 509. Contracting with individuals.
Sec. 510. Recognition of American generosity.
Sec. 511. Activities under other laws not affected.
Sec. 512. Policy on further management reform.
Sec. 513. Economic support fund report.
TITLE VI--SPECIAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVES AND OTHER REGION OR COUNTRY SPECIFIC
PROVISIONS
Chapter 1--East Asia and the Pacific
SUBCHAPTER A--ASSISTANCE TO THE PHILIPPINES
Sec. 601. Multilateral assistance initiative for the Philippines.
Sec. 602. Findings and statement of policy.
Sec. 603. Uses of assistance.
Sec. 604. Report to Congress.
Sec. 605. Authorization.
Sec. 606. Donor coordination.
Sec. 607. Administrative authorities.
SUBCHAPTER B--HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE FOR CAMBODIAN DEMOCRACY
Sec. 608. Humanitarian assistance for Cambodian democracy.
SUBCHAPTER C--OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE REGION
Sec. 609. Assistance for Burma.
Sec. 610. Assistance for Mongolia.
Chapter 2--Near East and South Asia
Sec. 611. Assistance for Pakistan.
Sec. 612. Assistance for Afghanistan.
Sec. 613. Promotion of human rights in Sri Lanka.
Chapter 3--Europe
SUBCHAPTER A--SEED PROGRAM SUPPORT FOR TRANSFORMATION FROM COMMUNISM TO
FREE-MARKET DEMOCRACY
Sec. 621. Short title; amendment to title of SEED Act of 1989.
Sec. 622. SEED authorities; authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 623. Eastern European agriculture.
Sec. 624. Enterprise Funds.
Sec. 625. Support for American business in Eastern Europe.
Sec. 626. Sakharov exchanges.
Sec. 627. Development of governmental institutions.
Sec. 628. Administrative authorities.
Sec. 629. Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe.
Sec. 630. Use of Polish currencies for Holocaust education.
SUBCHAPTER B--BALTIC HUMANITARIAN RELIEF
Sec. 631. Baltic humanitarian relief.
SUBCHAPTER C--CSCE ASSEMBLY
Sec. 632. Short title.
Sec. 633. United States Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the
Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Sec. 634. Appointment of Delegation.
Sec. 635. Funding.
Sec. 636. Annual Report.
Chapter 4--Middle East
SUBCHAPTER A--ARMS SUPPLIERS REGIME
Sec. 641. Short title.
Sec. 642. Findings.
Sec. 643. Arms suppliers regime.
Sec. 644. Actions by arms suppliers regime.
Sec. 645. Multilateral moratorium on advanced conventional arms.
Sec. 646. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 647. Limitations on United States arms sales.
Sec. 648. Policy toward friendly countries.
Sec. 649. Application of regime to other regions.
Sec. 650. Definitions.
SUBCHAPTER B--MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 651. Cooperative development program.
Sec. 652. Cooperative development research.
Sec. 653. Cooperative development projects among the United States, Israel
and Eastern Europe.
Sec. 654. Restrictions and reports with regard to Syria.
Sec. 655. Israeli-Palestinian people-to-people activities.
Sec. 656. Policy concerning state of belligerency toward Israel by Arab states.
Sec. 657. Peace and stability in the Middle East.
Chapter 5--Latin America and the Caribbean
SUBCHAPTER A--PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Sec. 661. Military aircraft transfers.
Sec. 662. Assistance for Guatemala.
Sec. 663. Assistance for Nicaragua.
Sec. 664. Assistance for refugees and displaced persons.
Sec. 665. Prohibition on assistance to members of the Sandinista popular army.
SUBCHAPTER B--PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO THE CARIBBEAN
Sec. 666. Assistance for Haiti.
Sec. 667. Haitian sugar cane harvesters in the Dominican Republic.
Sec. 668. Assistance for Guyana.
SUBCHAPTER C--ANDEAN INITIATIVE
Sec. 669. Economic assistance for the Andean countries.
Sec. 670. Military and law enforcement assistance.
Sec. 671. Extension of requirement for presidential determination.
Sec. 672. Conditional waiver of Brooke-Alexander Amendment.
SUBCHAPTER D--SOUTH AMERICA
Sec. 673. Argentina and Brazil's common nuclear policy.
Sec. 674. Military assistance and sales for Chile.
SUBCHAPTER E--OTHER PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO THE REGION
Sec. 675. Support of international efforts against the spread of cholera.
Sec. 676. Assistance for law enforcement.
Sec. 677. Strengthening civilian control over the military.
SUBCHAPTER F--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 678. Inter-American Foundation.
Sec. 679. Human rights in Cuba.
Sec. 680. Inclusion of indigenous peoples in annual human rights report.
Chapter 6--Africa
Sec. 681. Development Fund for Africa.
Sec. 682. Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference (SADCC).
Sec. 683. African Development Foundation.
Sec. 684. Assistance for Sudan.
Sec. 685. Assistance for Kenya.
Sec. 686. Assistance for Zaire.
Sec. 687. Assistance for Liberia.
Sec. 688. Strengthening judicial institutions in Africa.
Sec. 689. Study on the impact of adjustment supported programs on the
Development Fund for Africa.
TITLE VII--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE
Sec. 701. Short title.
Chapter 1--Statement of Findings and Purpose
Sec. 711. Statement of findings and purpose.
Chapter 2--Programs to Facilitate Investment Flows
Sec. 721. Findings.
Sec. 722. Role of Inter-American Development Bank (hereafter referred to as
the `IDB') and other programs in fostering investment reform.
Sec. 723. Enterprise for the Americas Investment Fund.
Chapter 3--Eligibility Requirements for Benefits
Sec. 731. Eligibility for benefits under provisions of this Act.
Chapter 4--Enterprise for the Americas Facility
Sec. 741. Establishment.
Sec. 742. Purpose.
Chapter 5--Debt Reduction
Sec. 751. Reduction of certain debt.
Sec. 752. Repayment of principal.
Sec. 753. Interest on new obligations.
Chapter 6--Enterprise for the Americas Accounts
Sec. 761. Establishment of, deposits into and disbursements from the Americas
Accounts.
Sec. 762. Enterprise for the Americas Agreement.
Sec. 763. Encouraging other creditors to undertake debt reductions.
Chapter 7--Sales, Reductions, or Cancellations of Loans or Assets
Sec. 771. Loans or assets eligible for sale, reduction, or cancellation.
Sec. 772. Deposit of proceeds.
Sec. 773. Eligible purchaser.
Sec. 774. Debtor consultation.
Chapter 8--International University for the Americas
Sec. 781. Purpose.
Sec. 782. Establishment of university.
Sec. 783. Faculty, students and curriculum.
Sec. 784. Funding.
Chapter 9--Reports
Sec. 791. Annual reports to Congress.
TITLE VIII--REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS
Sec. 801. Repeals.
TITLE IX--MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
Chapter 1--International Monetary Fund
Sec. 901. United States quota increase and amendments to articles of agreement.
Chapter 2--African Development Fund
Sec. 911. United States contribution.
Chapter 3--Asian Development Bank
Sec. 921. United States subscription to special capital increase.
TITLE X--PRESIDENTIAL CONTINGENCY FUND
Sec. 1001. Authority.
TITLE XI--PEACE CORPS
Sec. 1101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 1102. Peace Corps foreign currency fluctuations.
Sec. 1103. Evaluation of health-care services provided to Peace Corps
volunteers.
Sec. 1104. Reporting requirement on employment-related matters.
Sec. 1105. Peace Corps Act `third goal' activities.
TITLE XII--EFFECTIVE DATE
Sec. 1201. Effective Date.
TITLE I--STATEMENT OF POLICY; DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
SEC. 101. GENERAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE POLICY.
  The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by striking sections 101
  and 102 and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `SEC. 101. STATEMENT OF POLICY- (a) The Congress finds that peace and
  prosperity depend on the United States providing leadership in a world
  community increasingly receptive to democracy, open and competitive markets,
  and cooperation against aggression. The Congress further finds that the
  United States has in the past helped strengthen the capacity of other
  nations to develop their economies and human resources, improve security
  and build responsible democratic institutions. The Congress recognizes
  that for over forty years the threat of international communism weighed
  heavily on the programs and priorities of United States economic and
  security assistance. Today there is a spreading worldwide recognition that
  freedom can only be sustained by governments whose legitimacy rests firmly
  on the expressed consent of the governed; who are themselves agents and
  protectors of individual civil, political and economic rights; and who
  are committed to building the economic, political and social institutions
  which will improve the quality of the lives of all their people.
  `The Congress believes that fostering economic, military and other forms of
  international cooperation is vital to United States foreign policy. Likewise,
  addressing the manifestations of pervasive poverty through development
  assistance is essential to establishing the political, economic, and social
  environment necessary for sustained economic growth. The Congress believes
  that assistance under this Act, the Arms Export Control Act, and any Act
  authorizing or appropriating funds for use under such Acts should serve
  the following five mutually reinforcing goals--
  `(1) promoting and consolidating democratic values and institutions;
  `(2) promoting United States national security interests and securing peace;
  `(3) promoting economic growth through competitive markets with equitable
  distribution of benefits;
  `(4) promoting human resource development and meeting urgent humanitarian
  needs; and
  `(5) protecting against transnational threats including environmental
  degradation, narcotics trafficking, and terrorism.
  `(b) The Congress believes that the five goals set forth in subsection (a)
  should be mutually reinforcing to the maximum extent possible. Country and
  regional priorities should be set and revised on the basis of progress toward
  the attainment of the goals set forth in subsection (a). Bilateral assistance
  and support for international organizations as authorized by this Act and
  the Arms Export Control Act shall, in a complementary and coherent fashion,
  advance the five goals set forth in subsection (a). Assistance authorized
  by this Act and the Arms Export Control Act should be coordinated with the
  other relevant international activities of the United States Government
  so as to achieve the goals set forth in subsection (a).
  `(c) The Congress further believes that all other countries able to
  contribute should be urged to join in a common undertaking to meet the
  goals set forth in subsection (a). Such cooperation will be essential to
  continuing the reform process and expanding the revitalization of the United
  Nations and other international organizations. Central to this process must
  be the creative sharing of responsibility by the United States and its main
  global partners. Strong and effective multilateralism, particularly among
  the growing community of democratic nations, will improve the prospects
  for peace and prosperity regionally and globally.
  `SEC. 102. DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE POLICY- (a)(1) The Congress finds that it
  is in the interest of the United States and the international community to
  support sustainable, broad-based economic growth and national systems that
  are committed to democratic institutions, to basic human liberties, and
  to economic opportunity, competitive markets and open trade. The Congress
  further finds that economic growth and political pluralism are mutually
  reinforcing means to foster broad-based and sustainable development and,
  through such development, to address pervasive poverty. The Congress
  believes that to achieve economic growth, the United States must encourage
  and support the people of other countries in their efforts to build and
  reinforce the economic, political, and social institutions that will
  improve the quality of their lives. Furthermore, Congress reaffirms the
  traditional humanitarian ideals of the American people and renews its
  commitment to assist people in developing countries to combat hunger,
  poverty, disease, and illiteracy, and to help alleviate the suffering
  brought about by natural and manmade disasters.
  `(2) Development assistance programs undertaken pursuant to this chapter
  should have the following four main objectives--
  `(A) addressing the pressing problem of poverty among the world's poor
  majority;
  `(B) the promotion of broad-based free market economies and sustainable
  economic growth;
  `(C) the promotion of improved environmental, natural resource, and
  agricultural management to enable developing countries to achieve
  environmentally and economically sustainable patterns of development; and
  `(D) the promotion of democracy and political, social, and economic
  pluralism.
  `(b) The Congress finds that the efforts of developing countries to build
  the social and economic institutions which will achieve self-sustaining
  growth and improve the quality of life for their people depend primarily
  upon marshalling their own economic and human resources and choosing
  their own development goals and programs. The Congress recognizes that the
  magnitude of these efforts exceeds the resources of developing countries
  and acknowledges that there remains a long-term need for wealthy countries
  to contribute additional resources for development purposes. The Congress
  recognizes further that flawed economic policies of recipient countries
  have, in many cases, impeded both economic growth and the impact of foreign
  assistance. The Congress finds that many countries which have not faced
  legitimate national security threats have devoted inordinate levels of
  financial resources to military programs to the detriment of the civilian
  economic sectors. The United States should work in concert with other
  nations to mobilize resources for development purposes from public and
  private sources.
  `(c) Consistent with the goals set forth in section 101, and the four
  main objectives set forth in this section, development assistance programs
  under this chapter shall be designed and implemented to maximize--
  `(1) the involvement of socially disadvantaged populations, particularly
  women, in all aspects of the program;
  `(2) the contributions of United States scientific and research talent
  and institutions, both public and private;
  `(3) the use of United States technology;
  `(4) the use of United States and indigenous nongovernmental organizations
  (including private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit
  unions); and
  `(5) the United States commitment, in keeping with its constitutional
  heritage and in accordance with its international obligations as set forth
  in the Charter of the United Nations, to promote and encourage increased
  respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
  `(d) It is the sense of the Congress that the United States, taking into
  consideration the goals set forth in section 101, should--
  `(1) concentrate development assistance in countries which will make the
  most effective use of that assistance;
  `(2) focus its development assistance on those types of assistance activities
  which the United States can provide most effectively and which meet the
  particular economic assistance requirements of a country; and
  `(3) not provide development assistance for a program or project in a country
  if the relevant sector or national economic policies of that country are
  clearly unfavorable to the sustainability or broadest possible impact of
  the assisted program or project.'.
SEC. 102. AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT, AND NUTRITION.
  The first sentence of section 103(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  is amended to read as follows: `There are authorized to be appropriated to
  the President for purposes of this section, in addition to funds otherwise
  available for such purposes, $463,051,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993.'.
SEC. 103. POPULATION AND HEALTH.
  (a) POPULATION PLANNING- Section 104(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
  1961 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: `In determining
  eligibility for assistance under this subsection, the Administrator of
  the agency primarily responsible for administering this part shall not
  subject nongovernmental and multilateral organizations to requirements
  more restrictive than requirements applicable to foreign governments for
  such assistance.'.
  (b) CHILD SURVIVAL FUND- Section 104(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by striking `(A)'; and
  (2) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C).
  (c) HEALTH ASSISTANCE- Section 104(c) is amended by inserting the following
  new paragraph:
  `(4)(A) In carrying out the purposes of this section and in order to address
  the international health threat posed by the Acquired Immune Deficiency
  Syndrome, the President is authorized to furnish assistance, on such terms
  and conditions as he may determine, for assistance to prevent and control
  this disease, including the collection and dissemination of information on
  the spread of the disease and its economic and developmental effects. In
  carrying out the purposes of this paragraph, the agency primarily responsible
  for administering this part shall seek to ensure adequate coordination
  with other Federal agencies, international organizations, and private and
  voluntary organizations. Assistance activities pursuant to this paragraph
  should include support for appropriate activities which are carried out by
  international organizations (including such organizations receiving funds
  under chapter 3 of this part) and by private and voluntary organizations.
  `(B) Forty-five percent of the amount provided in each fiscal year for
  the purposes of this paragraph should be provided directly to the World
  Health Organization for its use in financing the Global Program on AIDS,
  including activities implemented by the Pan American Health Organization.'.
  (d) PROTECTION AGAINST IMMUNIZABLE DISEASES- Section 104(c)(3) is amended
  by striking the last two sentences and inserting in lieu thereof, `During
  the last decade the international campaign to save the lives of children has
  resulted in dramatic increases in the adoption of low cost measures to save
  children's lives, such as immunizations and oral rehydration therapy. The
  prior established goal of 80 percent universal child immunization by the end
  of 1990 has been achieved, saving the lives of over 12,000,000 children
  during the last decade. The Congress calls upon the agency primarily
  responsible for administering this part to set as a goal the reduction of
  under age 5 mortality rates by at least one-third by the year 2000.'.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 104(g)(1) of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read as follows:
  `(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President, in addition
  to funds otherwise available for such purposes--
  `(A) $257,688,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out
  subsection (b) of this section; and
  `(B) $301,291,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out
  subsection (c) of this section.'.
SEC. 104. EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT.
  The second sentence of section 105(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  is amended to read as follows: `There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the President for the purposes of this section, in addition to funds
  otherwise available for such purposes, $126,355,000 for each of fiscal years
  1992 and 1993, which are authorized to remain available until expended.'.
SEC. 105. PRIVATE SECTOR, ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY, AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT
ASSISTANCE.
  Section 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 106. PRIVATE SECTOR, ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY, AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT
  ASSISTANCE- (a)(1) The Congress finds that--
  `(A) a private enterprise economy is the most efficient means of achieving
  broad-based economic development;
  `(B) private enterprises that are allowed to respond to profitable
  opportunities in a free market produce jobs, managerial skills and economic
  growth; and
  `(C) significant equity objectives can be achieved when market forces
  operate to stimulate an economy.
  `(2) Assistance may be provided under this section to foster the movement
  of developing countries toward a free market society and the establishment
  of viable, competitive markets and the expansion of private enterprise,
  including cooperatives, in such countries. Such assistance should include
  support for a country's efforts to reform policies, procedures, regulations,
  and laws affecting the role of the private sector in the economy, and
  assistance to specific projects to stimulate the growth of the indigenous
  private sector and development in both rural and urban areas.
  `(b) The Congress recognizes that private and voluntary organizations and
  cooperatives bring unique skills to bear on the development process. By
  virtue of their links with private institutions in developing countries,
  such organizations and cooperatives often serve effectively to engage
  rural and urban poor in their country's development. In order to foster
  the activities of private and voluntary organizations and cooperatives (as
  well as regional and international development organizations), assistance
  may be provided for programs of technical cooperation and development in
  conjunction with those organizations.
  `(c)(1) The Congress recognizes that environmental considerations in
  economic development are essential to sustainable development that does
  not compromise the ability of future generations to meet their needs. The
  Congress further finds that the transboundary movement of pollutants poses an
  increasing threat to the fragile global ecosystem, thus making all nations
  potentially subject to negative economic, social, and health impacts from
  environmental degradation originating beyond any one country's borders.
  `(2) The Congress believes that the United States foreign assistance
  program is well suited to the task of promoting cooperation with developing
  countries to reduce the major threats to the world environment, including
  loss of important croplands, wetlands, and forests.
  `(3) Assistance may be provided under this section in order to help
  developing countries support sustainable development and for environment and
  conservation activities, including activities that address global warming,
  tropical deforestation, and biological diversity.
  `(d)(1) The Congress recognizes that energy development and production
  are vital elements in the development process and that energy shortages
  in developing countries greatly limit the development process in such
  countries. The energy constraints faced by most developing countries are
  severe. These countries, especially the poorest, have inadequate energy
  supplies for economic growth and for minimal domestic requirements, and must
  continually face the problem of unmanageable demands on foreign exchange in
  order to import oil and the problem of environmental degradation from an
  overexploited traditional fuel resource base. The Congress further finds
  that improving the efficiency of energy use and supply and developing
  nonconventional renewable energy resources are critical to sustainable
  energy development. Such development should be based on `least-cost'
  integrated resource planning which gives priority to cost-effective and
  environmentally benign development options for moderating energy demand
  and enhancing energy supplies.
  `(2) In order to help developing countries alleviate their energy problems,
  including the improvement of their ability to use indigenous energy
  resources to produce the energy needed by their economies, assistance may
  be provided to enable such countries to prepare and undertake sustainable
  energy strategies based on `least-cost' integrated resource plans, to
  improve the efficiency of energy use and supply, and to develop energy
  generation capabilities reliant upon resources that are secure over the
  long-term and available in sufficient quantity to maintain stable pricing.
  `(e) The Congress recognizes that assistance to developing countries will
  sometimes be required in order to address special development problems
  and research needs. Such assistance may include--
  `(1) programs of research into, and evaluation of, the process of economic
  development in developing countries and areas, the factors affecting
  the relative success and costs of development activities, and the means,
  techniques, and such other aspects of development assistance in order to
  render such assistance of increasing value and benefit;
  `(2) programs of reconstruction following natural or manmade disasters and
  programs of disaster preparedness, prevention, and mitigation including
  the prediction of, and contingency planning for, natural disasters abroad;
  `(3) other programs designed to help solve special development problems,
  including efforts to make possible proper utilization of infrastructure
  and related projects funded with earlier United States assistance; and
  `(4) programs of urban development.
  `(f) The President is authorized to furnish assistance, on such terms and
  conditions as he may determine, for activities to carry out the purposes
  of this section. There are authorized to be appropriated to the President
  for purposes of this section, in addition to funds otherwise available for
  such purposes, $162,351,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Amounts
  appropriated under this section are authorized to remain available until
  expended.'.
SEC. 106. SOUTH AFRICAN EDUCATION.
  Section 117 (relating to assistance for disadvantaged South Africans)
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' before `In'; and
  (2) by inserting at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(b) Recognizing the timely need to prepare South Africans and South African
  institutions for a post-apartheid era, the funds for education authorized
  under the South Africa Disadvantaged program should, to the maximum extent
  possible, be used for study within South Africa.  Furthermore, greater
  emphasis should be placed on improving primary and secondary education in
  South Africa.'.
SEC. 107. ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES.
  Section 117 (relating to the environment and natural resources) of the
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c)(1)--
  (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as subparagraphs (B) and
  (C), respectively; and
  (B) by inserting a new subparagraph (A) as follows:
  `(A) to prepare and take fully into account an initial environmental
  examination of every program or project to determine whether it significantly
  affects the environment;'; and
  (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds authorized under
  this Act, and intended for projects or programs requiring the execution of
  an environmental impact statement, assessment, or analysis, may be obligated
  or expended prior to the completion, consideration, and public comment of
  any options connected with the project or program under consideration.'.
SEC. 108. TROPICAL FORESTS.
  Section 118 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(g) None of the funds authorized to be appropriated for this Act shall be
  used for any project that would result in any significant loss of primary
  tropical forests.'.
SEC. 109. PRIVATE AND VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS AND COOPERATIVES.
  (a) Section 123 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (b) through (h) as subsections (d) through
  (j), respectively, and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsections:
  `(b)(1) United States private and voluntary organizations and cooperatives
  have proven to be an efficient and effective means of providing
  people-to-people assistance which has sustainable and lasting impact
  in benefiting the lives of the poor. In reflecting American values and
  generosity and in leveraging public funds with private resources, assistance
  provided through private and voluntary organizations and cooperatives
  builds long-term friendships for the United States. Accordingly, the
  Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering this
  part shall increase the involvement in assistance programs of these private
  nonprofit channels for the delivery of assistance, without compromising
  their private and independent nature. Such increased involvement should
  include increased consultation with, and increased direct funding through,
  private and voluntary organizations and cooperatives.
  `(2) The Administrator primarily responsible for administering this part
  shall undertake to--
  `(A) develop specific mechanisms for regular consultation, in the formulation
  of development strategies for countries and sectors, with private and
  voluntary organizations and cooperatives which have development experience
  and expertise relevant to those countries and sectors; and
  `(B) provide appropriate assistance to those organizations and cooperatives
  to support improvements in their planning, management, evaluation, and
  coordination activities.
  `(c) The Congress encourages the Administrator of the agency primarily
  responsible for administering this part to support fully and encourage
  development education programs. Private and voluntary organizations and
  cooperatives can play an important and unique catalytic role in development
  education to inform, motivate, and involve United States citizens in programs
  about developing countries or in the development process. Such programs--
  `(1) increase the understanding of Americans about the importance of the
  developing world;
  `(2) transfer factual information on global, social, economic, and political
  structures and problems;
  `(3) foster understanding of development as a process that involves all
  nations;
  `(4) create a broad global consciousness and awareness of transnational
  problems;
  `(5) promote values and attitudes which encourage a feeling of responsibility
  to correct injustices; and
  `(6) engage citizens in activities which lead to the improvement of the
  quality of life for all peoples.'.
  (b) Subsection (h) of section 123 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
  as redesignated by subsection (a), is amended--
  (1) by striking `of the fiscal years 1986 through 1989' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `fiscal year';
  (2) by striking `thirteen and one-half' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `eighteen';
  (3) by striking `121, and 491' and inserting in lieu thereof `491, and
  chapter 10 of part I'; and
  (4) by striking `sixteen' and inserting in lieu thereof `twenty-five'.
SEC. 110. SPECIAL WAIVER AUTHORITY.
  Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 129. SPECIAL WAIVER AUTHORITY- Funds appropriated to carry out the
  provisions of section 104(c)(2), 104(c)(3), 104(c)(4), and environmental
  and energy activities under the provisions of sections 103 through 106 of
  this Act, may be made available notwithstanding any provision of law which
  restricts assistance to foreign countries, except that such assistance
  shall be subject to sections 116, 502B, and 620A of this Act.'.
SEC. 111. WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that:
  (1) Women in developing countries play multiple and vital roles in economic
  development.
  (2) An overwhelming body of research shows that when women participate
  in the design and implementation of development activities, success and
  sustainability is high.
  (3) Achievement of development goals is being retarded by the failure to
  integrate effectively women in development activities.
  (4) In order to improve integration of women in the Agency for International
  Development's development activities, the Agency should continue to increase
  training to recognize the essential economic roles of women and to develop
  strategies to incorporate women into all development programs.
  (5) The Agency for International Development lacks adequate accountability
  and management mechanisms to ensure that the women in development policy
  is being fully implemented.
  (6) Among United Nations organizations, the United Nations Development Fund
  for Women (UNIFEM) and the International Research and Training Institute
  for the Advancement of Women (INSTRAW) have demonstrated that greater
  support for the productive activities of women can improve the well-being
  of communities and national economies.
  (b) Section 113 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by amending the section heading to read `WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT'; and
  (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(a) In recognition of the essentiality that women's participation is to
  the success and sustainability of development projects and achievement of
  the objectives of this chapter, the Administrator of the agency responsible
  for administering part I of this Act shall seek to ensure that--
  `(1) activities carried out under this chapter incorporate, wherever
  feasible, the active participation of local women and local women's
  organizations (including their involvement in the planning, design,
  implementation, and evaluation of such activities);
  `(2) sex-disaggregated data is--
  `(A) included in country development strategy statements for major sectors
  in which assistance is to be provided; and
  `(B) included in project papers and program assistance approval documents;
  `(3) programs, projects, and activities, where appropriate, are designed
  so that the percentage of women who benefit from such assistance exceeds
  the approximate traditional level of participation of women in the sector
  for which assistance is being provided;
  `(4) country development strategy statements identify, for each major
  assistance sector--
  `(A) the obstacles to increasing the level of participation of women beyond
  the traditional level of participation;
  `(B) the steps being taken to remove or overcome such obstacles;
  `(C) to the extent that steps are not being taken to remove or overcome
  such obstacles, why such steps are not being taken; and
  `(D) the extent to which women are being integrated into the development
  process generally; and
  `(5) project and program assistance evaluations include an assessment of
  the extent to which women are participating in such activity and, where
  appropriate, the impact of such activity on enhancing the self-reliance
  of women and improving their incomes.'.
  (c) Section 113(b)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended
  by adding at the end the following: `Beginning in fiscal year 1992, up to
  $3,000,000 of the funds used each fiscal year pursuant to this subsection
  shall be made available as matching funds to support those activities of
  the missions of the agency which demonstrate potential for integrating
  women into the programs of those missions.'.
  (d) Section 113(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(c) Not later than March 1, 1993, and every second year thereafter, the
  Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering this
  part shall report to Congress on--
  `(1) the specific steps taken as of the time of the report in implementing
  each paragraph of subsection (a);
  `(2) the additional steps to be taken to implement each such paragraph; and
  `(3) the use of funds pursuant to  subsection (b).'.
SEC. 112. ECONOMIC REFORM AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
  Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 130. ECONOMIC REFORM AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION- None of the economic
  reforms required by this Act shall supplant or diminish the environmental
  protections called for by this or other law.  In implementing economic
  reforms such as structural adjustments careful consideration shall be given
  to prevent any significant environmental or natural resource degradation,
  or diminishment of protection of those resources.'.
TITLE II--OTHER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 201. AMERICAN SCHOOLS AND HOSPITALS ABROAD.
  Section 214 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (c)(1) to read as follows:
  `(1) To carry out the purposes of this section, there are authorized to
  be appropriated to the President $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993.'; and
  (2) by adding the following new subsection:
  `(e) For the purposes of subsection (a), the term `school' includes any
  institution which provides activities of daily life training, vocational
  education, and related services to the mentally retarded.'.
SEC. 202. ENCOURAGING AMERICAN SCHOOLS IN EASTERN EUROPE AND THE SOVIET UNION.
  (a) It is the sense of the Congress that United States citizens, particularly
  but not limited to, United States institutions of higher learning, give
  every consideration to founding or sponsoring American schools in Eastern
  Europe and the Soviet Union to serve as study and demonstration centers
  for ideas and practices of the United States.
  (b) It is further the sense of the Congress that the American University of
  Blagoevgrad in Bulgaria, which will be the first completely American school
  in Eastern Europe since the democratic revolutions of 1989 and which is being
  established by the University of Maine with initial financial assistance
  from the Open Society Fund, is to be commended for its pioneering efforts
  in founding an American school that will serve the purposes and goals
  described in subsection (a).
SEC. 203. PRIVATE SECTOR CREDIT PROGRAM.
  Section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) in the section heading, by striking out `REVOLVING FUND' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `CREDIT PROGRAM';
  (2) in subsection (a), by striking out the last two sentences of that
  subsection;
  (3) by striking out subsections (b), (d), (e), (f) and redesignating
  subsections (c), (g), (h), and (i) as subsections (b), (c), (d), and
  (e), respectively;
  (4) in subsection (b)(1) (as redesignated by this section) by striking
  out `use the funds' through `Acts' and inserting in lieu thereof `furnish
  assistance in furtherance of the policy of subsection (a) on such terms
  and conditions as it may determine';
  (5) in subsection (c) (as redesignated by this section) by striking out
  `from the revolving fund account' and inserting in lieu thereof `from
  this section';
  (6) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by this section) by striking out `,
  all reflows' through `fund's' and inserting in lieu thereof `and a status
  report on all projects currently contained in the program's';
  (7) in subsection (e) (as redesignated by this section) by striking out
  subparagraphs (E) and (H) and redesignating accordingly; and
  (8) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(f) Any payments made to discharge liabilities under guarantees issued
  under this section shall be paid--
  `(1) first, out of fees as provided in subsection (g); and
  `(2) then, out of funds made available pursuant to subsection (h).
  `(g) A fee may be charged for each guarantee and loan issued under this
  section in an amount to be determined by the President. All fees collected
  under this section shall be held in a financing account maintained in the
  Treasury of the United States.  All funds in such account may be invested in
  obligations of the United States. Any interest or other receipts derived from
  such investments shall be credited to such account.  Amounts in the financing
  account maintained under this section shall be available to offset the cost
  of guarantee obligations and liabilities on loans issued under this section.
  `(h) Direct loan obligations may be entered into under this section,
  and guarantee commitments may be issued under this section, only to the
  extent that the budget authority for the resulting additional cost has
  been provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
  `(i) The level of activity under this section may not exceed $57,000,000
  in contingent liability for guarantees in each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
  `(j) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President for each
  of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, $1,367,000 for administrative expenses to
  carry out this section.'.
SEC. 204. HOUSING AND OTHER CREDIT GUARANTY PROGRAMS.
  (a) Section 222(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by striking out `$2,558,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `$3,400,000,000'; and
  (2) by striking out `1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `1993'.
  (b) The authority of section 222 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  may be exercised during fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to issue guarantees
  in connection with loans made for the purpose of providing housing and
  infrastructure in Israel for Soviet refugees, except that such guarantees
  shall not be subject to the provisions of subsections (c) and (j) (as it
  relates to the face value limitation) of section 223 of such Act.
  (c) Section 222A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is repealed.
  (d) Section 223 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 223. GENERAL PROVISIONS- (a) A fee shall be charged for each guarantee
  issued under section 222 in an amount to be determined by the President. All
  fees collected in connection with guarantees issued under section 222 shall
  be available to offset the cost of guarantee obligations under this section.
  `(b) In the case of any loan investment guaranteed under section 222,
  the President shall prescribe the maximum rate of interest allowable
  to the eligible investor.  The maximum allowable rate of interest under
  this subsection shall be prescribed by the President as of the date the
  project covered by the investment is officially authorized and, prior to
  the execution of the contract, the President may amend such rate at his
  discretion, consistent with the provisions of this subsection.
  `(c) The face value of guarantees issued under section 222 in any fiscal
  year with respect to any country may not exceed $50,000,000.
  `(d) The principal amount of guarantees issued under section 222 for each
  fiscal year shall be comparable to the total principal amount of such
  guarantees issued for fiscal year 1984, subject to dollar limitations
  on the issuance of guarantees under this section which are contained in
  section 222(a) and subject to subsection (e).
  `(e) New credit authority provided for in section 222 may be exercised
  only to such extent or in such amount as is provided in advance in an
  appropriation Act.
  `(f) No payment may be made under any guarantee issued under section 222
  (or under the former guarantee authority of section 222A or predecessor
  guarantee authorities) for any loss arising out of fraud or misrepresentation
  for which the party seeking payment is responsible.
  `(g) All of the fees referred to in this section, together with earnings on
  those fees and other income arising from guarantee operations under section
  222, shall be held in a financing account maintained in the Treasury of the
  United States.  All funds in such account may be invested in obligations
  of the United States.  Any interest or other receipts derived from such
  investments shall be credited to such account and may be used for the
  purposes specified in the last sentence of subsection (a).
  `(h) Any payments made to discharge liabilities under guarantees issued
  under section 222 shall be paid--
  `(1) first, out of fees referred to in subsection (a); and
  `(2) then, out of funds made available pursuant to subsection (j).
  `(i) All guarantees issued under section 222 (or under the former guarantee
  authority of section 222A or under predecessor guarantee authorities) shall
  constitute obligations, in accordance with the terms of such guarantees,
  of the United States of America and the full faith and credit of the United
  States of America is hereby pledged for the full payment and performance
  of such obligations.
  `(j) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President not more than
  $2,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to pay the cost of
  guarantee obligations under section 222 with a face value of $100,000,000
  for each such fiscal year.
  `(k) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President not more than
  $7,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for administrative
  expenses necessary to carry out section 222.
  `(l) Guarantees committed or outstanding under the guarantee authority
  formerly contained in section 222A shall continue subject to provisions of
  this Act originally applicable to those guarantees and the Federal Credit
  Reform Act of 1990.'.
SEC. 205. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND PROGRAMS.
  (a) Section 301(h) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(h)'; and
  (2) by inserting the following new paragraph:
  `(2) In order to carry out the purposes of this section, the President may
  continue United States participation in and may make contributions to the
  International Fund for Agricultural Development.'.
  (b) Section 302(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(a)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry
  out the purposes of this chapter, in addition to funds available under
  other Acts for such purposes--
  `(A) $120,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for the United
  Nations Development Program;
  `(B) $85,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for the United
  Nations Children's Fund;
  `(C) $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for the United
  Nations Environment Program;
  `(D) $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for the United
  Nations Development Fund for Women;
  `(E) $1,200,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for the
  Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission; and
  `(F) $83,080,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for grants to
  international organizations and programs administered by such organizations
  other than the organizations referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (E).'.
  (c) The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting the following
  new section:
  `SEC. 304. UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTION TO THE UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSITY
  ENDOWMENT FUND- There is authorized to be appropriated to the President
  $1,000,000 to be used for a contribution of the United States to the United
  Nations University Endowment Fund, such contribution to be made on such
  terms as the President finds will promote the purposes of the University
  as stated in the University Charter approved by the General Assembly of the
  United Nations in December 1973, except that the contribution of the United
  States to the United Nations University Endowment Fund may not exceed 25
  per centum of the total amount actually contributed to such fund by other
  members of the United Nations. Amounts appropriated under this section
  are authorized to remain available until expended.'.
  (d) Chapter 3 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 308. PARTICIPATION BY ISRAEL IN THE UNITED NATIONS- If Israel is
  illegally expelled, suspended, denied its credentials, or in any other
  manner denied its right to participate in any principal or subsidiary organ
  or in any specialized, technical, or other agency of the United Nations,
  the United States shall suspend its contributions to any such organ or
  agency until the illegal action or denial of rights is reversed.'.
SEC. 206. INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE.
  (a) Section 491(b) is amended by inserting after `preparedness' the
  following: `, prevention and mitigation'.
  (b) The first sentence of section 492(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
  1961 is amended to read as follows: `There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the President to carry out section 491, $40,000,000 for each of fiscal
  years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 207. INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL.
  Section 481(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by amending paragraph (1)(A) to read as follows:
  `(A) under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, and under the
  United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
  Psychotropic Substances, 1988, the parties are required to criminalize
  certain drug related activities, provide appropriately severe penalties,
  and cooperate in the extradition of accused offenders;'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting `, including reciprocal maritime
  agreements,' after the word `agreements'.
SEC. 208. INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL AUTHORIZATION.
  Section 482(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(1) To carry out the purposes of section 481, there are authorized to be
  appropriated to the President $171,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993.'.
SEC. 209. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
  Section 661 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 661. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY- (a) The Trade and Development Agency
  shall be an agency of the United States under the foreign policy guidance
  of the Secretary of State. The purpose of the Trade and Development Agency
  is to promote United States private sector participation in development
  projects in developing and middle-income countries, in order to promote
  the goals set forth in section 101 of this Act.
  `(b)(1) The Director of the Trade and Development Agency is authorized to
  work with foreign countries, including those in which the United States
  development programs have been concluded or those not receiving assistance
  under part I, to carry out the purpose of this section by providing funds
  for feasibility studies and other activities related to development projects
  which provide opportunities for the use of United States exports.
  `(2) Funds under this section may be used to provide support for the
  planning, development, and management of, and procurement for, bilateral
  and multilateral development projects, including training activities
  undertaken in connection with a project, for the purpose of promoting the
  use of United States goods and services in such projects.
  `(3)(A) The Trade and Development Agency shall disseminate information
  about its project activities to the private sector; and
   `(B) Federal departments, agencies, and the Trade and Development Agency
   are encouraged to cooperate in the effective provision of informational
   services to persons in the private sector concerning trade development
   and export promotion related to development projects.
  `(4) Any funds used for purposes of this section may be used notwithstanding
  any other provision of this Act.
  `(c)(1) There shall be at the head of the Trade and Development Agency a
  Director who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice
  and consent of the Senate.
  `(2)(A) The President may appoint such officers and employees of the Trade
  and Development Agency as the President considers appropriate.
  `(B) The officers and employees appointed under this paragraph shall have
  such functions as the Director may determine.
  `(C) Of the officers and employees appointed under this paragraph, 2 may be
  appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
  governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be compensated
  without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 or subchapter III of chapter
  53 of such title.
  `(D) Under such regulations as the President may prescribe, any individual
  appointed under subparagraph (C) may be entitled, upon removal (except for
  cause) from the position to which the appointment was made, to reinstatement
  to the position occupied by that individual at the time of appointment or
  to a position of comparable grade and pay.
  `(d) The President shall, not later than December 31 of each year, submit
  to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and
  the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on the activities
  of the Trade and Development Agency in the preceding fiscal year.
  `(e)(1) The Inspector General of the agency primarily responsible for
  administering part I--
  `(A) shall have full and independent authority to conduct audits,
  investigations, and inspections of all phases of the program and operations
  of the Trade and Development Agency for the purpose of promoting economy,
  efficiency, and effectiveness, and detecting and preventing fraud and
  abuse; and
  `(B) shall conduct all security activities of the Trade and Development
  Agency relating to personnel and the control of classified material.
  `(2) The Inspector General shall report to and be under the general
  supervision of the Director of the Trade and Development Agency with
  respect to activities undertaken pursuant to this section, except that the
  Director shall not prevent or prohibit the Inspector General from initiating,
  carrying out, or completing any such activity in accordance with the duties,
  authorities, and responsibilities contained in the Inspector General Act
  of 1978, and any other applicable laws and regulations.
  `(3) For purposes of the Inspector General Act of 1978, the Trade and
  Development Agency shall continue to be considered a Federal entity and
  the Director of the Trade and Development Agency shall be considered the
  head of the Federal entity.
  `(4) The semiannual report required under section 5 of the Inspector
  General Act of 1978 shall include information relating to activities of
  the Inspector General undertaken pursuant to this section.
  `(f) There are authorized to be appropriated for purposes of this section,
  in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes, $40,000,000
  for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 210. REQUIREMENT OF SENATE CONFIRMATION FOR SPECIFIC POSITIONS IN A.I.D.
  Section 624(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' immediately after `(a)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(2) No appointment pursuant to paragraph (1) may be made to a position
  within the agency primarily responsible for administering part I of this
  Act unless the appointee has been nominated for a specific position and
  the Senate has given its advice and consent to the appointment to that
  same position.'.
SEC. 211. OPERATING EXPENSES.
  Section 667(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(1) $483,300,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for necessary
  operating expenses of the agency primarily responsible for administering
  part I of this Act; and'.
SEC. 212. OPERATING EXPENSES, OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
  Section 668 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 668. OPERATING EXPENSES, OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL- (a) There
  are authorized to be appropriated to the President, in addition to funds
  otherwise available for such purposes--
  `(1) $37,739,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for necessary
  operating expenses of the Office of the Inspector General of the agency
  primarily responsible for administering part I of this Act; and
  `(2) such amounts as may be necessary for increases in salary, pay,
  retirement, and other employee benefits authorized by law, and for other
  nondiscretionary costs of such office.
  `(b) Amounts appropriated under this section are authorized to remain
  available until expended.'.
SEC. 213. CENTERS FOR UNIVERSITY COOPERATION AND VOLUNTARY COOPERATION
IN DEVELOPMENT.
  Chapter 2 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new sections:
  `SEC. 640D. Center for University Cooperation in Development-
  `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  `(1) United States college and university systems involving public and
  private institutions of higher education can contribute significantly to
  enhancing the development of developing countries;
  `(2) sustained participation of United States colleges and universities in
  the economic development programs of these countries and the building of
  indigenous university systems that support the educational, research, and
  service needs of their societies is vital to their achieving sustainable
  economic growth and open democratic political systems; and
  `(3) at the same time, the participation of United States colleges and
  universities in these international development efforts also supports
  the internationalization of United States educational institutions by
  strengthening their faculty and the programs available to their students, and
  enhancing the quality and relevance of their research and extension efforts.
  `(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF A CENTER- The President shall maintain within
  the agency primarily responsible for administering part I of this Act
  a Center for University Cooperation in Development (hereinafter in this
  section referred to as the `Center'). The Center shall seek to promote and
  strengthen mutually beneficial development cooperation and partnerships
  between such agency, United States public and private institutions of
  higher education that are engaged in education, research, and public
  service programs relevant to the development needs of developing countries,
  and institutions of higher education, research, and extension in those
  developing countries. The Center shall--
  `(1) develop basic policies, procedures, and criteria for education,
  research, and development programs involving United States institutions
  of higher education and developing country institutions;
  `(2) encourage and support the development of collaborative programs
  to strengthen the capacity of United States universities to undertake
  sustainable, long-term partnerships with institutions in developing countries
  and which also deepen university commitment to internationalization and
  development cooperation;
  `(3) encourage and support the development of cooperative programs between
  United States universities and the private sector which contribute to the
  sustainable development of developing countries;
  `(4) undertake specialized programs which seek to bring the unique
  capabilities of historically black colleges and universities to bear on
  the development problems of developing countries and strengthen their
  capacity to enter into sustainable partnerships with institutions in
  developing countries;
  `(5) facilitate access by developing countries and the agency to the
  resources of United States colleges and universities and the participation of
  these institutions in the development programs of developing countries; and
  `(6) undertake studies and analyses and specialized reviews necessary to
  the accomplishment of paragraphs (1) through (5).
  `(c) SOURCE OF FUNDS- The President may make available such funds as
  necessary for administrative expenses necessary to carry out this section,
  from funds authorized to be appropriated under section 667 of this Act.
  `SEC. 640E. CENTER FOR VOLUNTARY COOPERATION IN DEVELOPMENT-
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The President shall maintain within the agency primarily
  responsible for administering part I of this Act a Center for Voluntary
  Cooperation in Development (hereafter in this section referred to as the
  `Center').
  `(b) PURPOSE- The purpose of the Center shall be to strengthen the
  partnership for development among the United States Government and United
  States private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions
  that are engaged in activities that are relevant to the development needs
  of developing countries and to the attainment of the four basic objectives
  set forth in section 102.
  `(c) FUNCTIONS- The Center shall--
  `(1) participate in the development of policies, procedures, and criteria
  for all programs of the administering agency that involve private voluntary
  organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions;
  `(2) under the general policy guidance of the Administrator, develop
  program policies, procedures, and funding criteria for support by the
  administering agency of worldwide activities of such entities; and
  `(3) administer comprehensive grant programs in support of long-term,
  worldwide programs of such entities.
  `(d) SOURCE OF FUNDS- The President may make available such funds as
  necessary for administrative expenses necessary to carry out this section,
  from funds authorized to be appropriated under section 667 of this Act.
  `SEC. 640F. PRIVATE SECTOR ADVISORY BOARD-
  `The Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering part
  I of this Act shall establish a permanent Advisory Committee on Voluntary
  Cooperation in Development, whose membership shall consist primarily of
  representatives from private voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and
  credit unions which have experience working in developing countries. The
  function of the Advisory Committee shall be to advise the Administrator
  regarding programs which the Agency carries out with or through private
  voluntary organizations, cooperatives, and credit unions.'.
SEC. 214. NOTIFICATION OF PROGRAM CHANGES.
  Section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 634A. NOTIFICATION OF PROGRAM CHANGES-
  `(a) INCREASED ASSISTANCE AND NEW PROGRAMS- Unless the Committee on
  Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee
  on Appropriations of the Senate are notified at least fifteen days in
  advance, funds appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out this Act may
  not be obligated for the following:
  `(1) INCREASE IN ASSISTANCE LEVEL- Any assistance under any provision of
  this Act--
  `(A) for a country or international organization for which assistance under
  that provision was not justified in congressional presentation documents
  for that fiscal year, or
  `(B) in excess of the amount justified in the congressional presentation
  document and allocated pursuant to section 653(a) of this Act, whichever
  is greater, for that country or organization under that provision for that
  fiscal year.
  `(2) NEW ACTIVITIES- Any economic assistance for a program, project,
  or activity under any provision of this Act--
  `(A) which was not justified in congressional presentation documents for
  that fiscal year; and
  `(B) for which assistance was not furnished for the preceding fiscal year.
  `(b) CONGRESSIONAL PRESENTATION DOCUMENTS- For purposes of this section, the
  term `congressional presentation documents' means the annual congressional
  presentation documents for assistance under this Act or the justification
  documents accompanying a request for supplemental authorizations of
  appropriations or supplemental appropriations for assistance under this Act.
  `(c) APPROPRIATIONS SUBJECT TO REQUIREMENT- Subsection (a) applies with
  respect to all funds appropriated for assistance under this Act (including
  chapter 8 of part I relating to narcotics control) other than--
  `(1) title IV of part I (relating to the Overseas Private Investment
  Corporation),
  `(2) section 661 (relating to the Trade and Development Agency),
  `(3) section 108 (relating to the private sector credit program),
  `(4) section 221 (relating to the housing and urban development guarantee
  program), and
  `(5) programs of disaster relief and rehabilitation, including assistance
  programs under chapter 9 of part I (relating to international disaster
  assistance).
  `(d) EMERGENCY EXCEPTIONS-
  `(1) WAIVER- Subject to paragraph (2), the President may waive the
  requirement of subsection (a), or any similar requirement to provide
  advance notification to the Congress or specified congressional committees,
  if the President determines that failure to do so would pose a substantial
  risk to human health or welfare.
  `(2) EXERCISE OF AUTHORITY- Before exercising the authority of this
  subsection, the President shall notify the appropriate congressional
  committees, the Congress, or the specified congressional committees (as
  the case may be). Any notification under this paragraph shall contain an
  explanation of the circumstances necessitating the use of the authority
  of this subsection.'.
SEC. 215. INTEREST ON LOCAL CURRENCY ACCRUING TO NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS.
  Section 636 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(j) A nongovernmental organization may invest local currencies which
  accrue to that organization as a result of assistance provided under
  part I, the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954,
  section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, or the Food for Progress
  Act of 1985, and any interest earned on such investment may be used for
  the purpose for which the assistance was provided to that organization,
  including for the establishment of an endowment.'.
TITLE III--ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 532(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry
  out the purposes of this chapter--
  `(1)(A) $1,200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Israel;
  `(B) The total amount of funds allocated pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall
  be made available as a cash transfer on a grant basis. Such transfer shall
  be made on an expedited basis in the first thirty days of the fiscal year
  or thirty days after the date of enactment of the Act appropriating such
  funds, whichever is later. In exercising the authority of this paragraph,
  the President shall ensure that the level of cash transfer made to Israel
  does not cause an adverse impact on the total level of nonmilitary exports
  from the United States to Israel;
  `(2)(A) $815,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Egypt;
  `(B) assistance provided for Egypt pursuant to this paragraph may include
  sector grants only if Egypt implements agreed upon reforms in the relevant
  sector;
  `(C) notwithstanding section 660 of this Act, assistance provided for Egypt
  pursuant to this paragraph may include support for instruction and training
  for Egyptian civilian law enforcement personnel with respect to human rights,
  democratic pluralism, and comparative criminal justice systems, including
  support for related curriculum development and research. Such assistance
  may be provided only through United States institutions of higher learning
  or through the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance
  Program of the United States Department of Justice;
  `(3) $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to finance,
  and where appropriate, for United States participation in, regional
  cooperative programs in the Middle East in accordance with section 202(c)
  of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985;
  `(4)(A) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Cyprus;
  `(B) assistance provided for Cyprus pursuant to this paragraph shall
  be for scholarships and other projects and for bicommunal projects and
  confidence building measures designed to reduce tensions and to promote
  peace and cooperation between the two communities on Cyprus, with the
  highest priority given to the resettlement of the Famagusta/Varosha area
  under the auspices of the United Nations;
  `(5) $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for United States
  contributions to the International Fund for Ireland, pursuant to the
  Anglo-Irish Agreement Support Act of 1986;
  `(6) $175,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Turkey; and
  `(7) $966,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out
  the purposes of this chapter for recipients or purposes other than the
  countries referred to in paragraphs (1) through (6) of this section.'.
SEC. 302. ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE.
  (a) Section 534(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking out `and the Caribbean' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `, the Caribbean, and the Philippines'.
  (b) Section 534(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking out `fiscal year 1991' and inserting in lieu thereof `each of
  fiscal years 1992 and 1993' and by striking out `September 30, 1991'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `September 30, 1993'.
SEC. 303. CAPITAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE ASSISTANCE.
  Chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act is amended by adding
  at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 536. CAPITAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE ASSISTANCE- (a) In order to achieve
  sustained economic growth, it is crucial that the physical and economic
  infrastructure requirements of countries be met. In countries and areas
  which are in the more advanced stages of economic development, the President
  is authorized to use funds made available under this chapter to support
  developmentally-sound trade and investment opportunities in the form of
  capital and infrastructure assistance. In exercising the authority under
  this section, the President should ensure the developmental value of capital
  assistance, monitor the provision of that assistance so as to ensure that
  sustainable developmental criteria are satisfied, and consider related
  trade and commercial opportunities for continued United States involvement
  and participation that furthers the national interest of the United States.
  `(b) The requirements of section 117(c) of this Act relating to environmental
  impact statements and environmental assessments shall apply to any capital
  and infrastructure assistance provided under this section.'.
SEC. 304. RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
  Funds authorized to be appropriated to carry out chapter 4 of part II of
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 may not
  be used to finance the construction of, the operation or maintenance of,
  or the supplying of fuel for any nuclear facility in a foreign country
  unless the President certifies to the Congress that such country--
  (1) is a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
  or the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America
  (also known as the `Treaty of Tlatelolco');
  (2) cooperates fully with the International Atomic Energy Agency; and
  (3) pursues nonproliferation policies consistent with those of the United
  States.
SEC. 305. PURCHASE OF UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES.
  Chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 537. PURCHASE OF UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES- (a) CONSIDERATIONS
  REGARDING CASH TRANSFERS- Assistance may be provided to a foreign country
  under this chapter as a cash transfer only if the President determines that
  the needs of that country and the interests of the United States would be
  better met by a cash transfer.
  `(b) USE OF CASH TRANSFERS FOR UNITED STATES GOODS AND SERVICES- Assistance
  may be provided to a country under this chapter as a cash transfer only
  pursuant to an agreement requiring that the country spend an amount equal
  to the amount of the cash transfer to purchase United States goods and
  services.  Nothing in this section, however, shall prevent a country from
  purchasing, with United States cash transfer assistance, goods and services
  produced in that country.  United States goods purchased pursuant to such
  an agreement shall be deemed to have been furnished by the United States
  without provision for reimbursement within the meaning of section 901(b)(1)
  of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. App. 1241(b)(1)): Provided,
  That no United States flag carrier shall be reimbursed for more than 30
  percent above the average competitive international rate for international
  ship transportation.  The Secretary of Commerce shall establish regulations
  to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to define the average competitive
  international rate for international ship competition.
  `(c) GAO AUDITS- Each agreement pursuant to which cash transfer assistance
  is provided under this chapter shall include provisions to ensure that
  representatives of the Comptroller General have access to the records
  and personnel necessary to carry out such monitoring and auditing as the
  Comptroller General deems appropriate.
  `(d) EXEMPTIONS- This section shall not apply to any country--
  `(1) which receives cash transfer assistance under this chapter of less
  than $10,000,000 for a fiscal year; or
  `(2) which has been receiving cash transfer assistance under this chapter
  and has an agreement with the United States under which the country agrees--
  `(A) to spend an amount equal to the amount of the cash transfer on the
  purchase of United States goods and services, and
  `(B) to carry 50 percent of all bulk shipments of United States grain on
  privately owned United States-flag commercial vessels, to the extent such
  vessels are available at fair and reasonable rates for such vessels,
except that a country shall be exempted pursuant to this paragraph only so
long as that country continues to agree to those conditions.
  `(e) WAIVER- The President may waive the provisions of this section with
  respect to a country to the extent the President determines that it is
  important to the national interest to do so.  Any such waiver shall be
  reported to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives
  and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
  `(f) DEFINITION OF UNITED STATES GOODS- For purposes of this section, the
  term `United States goods' means goods and commodities grown, produced,
  or manufactured in the United States (including agricultural commodities).'.
TITLE IV--MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES AND RELATED PROGRAMS
SEC. 401. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE.
  Section 501 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 501. (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  `(1) to advance the United States foreign policy objectives as set forth
  in section 101 of this Act, the United States must foster a climate in
  which all nations can live in peace and security;
  `(2) where threats to such a climate arise, through regional conflicts,
  the danger of military aggression, the proliferation of weapons of mass
  destruction, or through efforts by armed groups violently to overthrow
  democratic governments, it is in the interest of the United States to
  address those threats; and therefore
  `(3) the United States is prepared to consider requests for assistance by
  foreign countries lacking the resources to meet their legitimate national
  security needs.
  `(b) PURPOSES- The authorities to furnish military assistance that are
  provided under this title shall be exercised only for the following
  objectives:
  `(1) To exert maximum efforts to achieve international arms control and
  reduction under adequate safeguards against noncompliance.
  `(2) To promote the establishment of a relationship between civilian and
  military sectors appropriate to a democratic system of government.
  `(3) To enhance the military capability of foreign countries to meet
  their legitimate security needs, and to permit the recipient countries to
  participate in regional or collective arrangements or measures consistent
  with the Charter of, or requested by, the United Nations.
  `(4) To provide support to foreign countries to meet transnational
  threats, in particular to combat the flow of illicit narcotics and to
  combat international terrorism.
  `(5) To meet urgent humanitarian needs in less developed countries by
  improving the capability of the armed forces of such countries to respond
  to natural and manmade disasters.
  `(6) To promote self-defense and defense cooperation by assisting friendly
  countries to acquire United States defense articles and services.
  `(7) To promote the effectiveness and professionalism of military forces
  of friendly foreign countries.
  `(8) To promote rationalization, standardization, and interoperability of
  the military forces of friendly foreign countries with the Armed Forces
  of the United States.'.
SEC. 402. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
  Section 503 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by inserting after `assistance' the first time it appears, `on a
  grant basis';
  (B) in paragraph (1), by striking `(by loan or grant)' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `by grant'; and
  (C) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting in lieu thereof
  the following:
  `(2) financing the sale of defense articles or defense services, or
  providing financing under subsection (b).'; and
  (2) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following new subsections:
  `(b) FINANCING PROCUREMENT BY COMMERCIAL LEASING- (1) Financing may be
  provided under this section to Israel and Egypt for the procurement
  by leasing (including leasing with an option to purchase) of defense
  articles from United States commercial suppliers, not including Major
  Defense Equipment (other than helicopters and other types of aircraft
  having possible civilian application), if the President determines that
  there are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for
  those defense articles being provided by commercial lease rather than by
  government-to-government sale under this Act.
  `(2) Any exercise of the authority of this subsection shall be subject to the
  regular notification requirements of the Committee on Foreign Relations and
  the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign
  Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  `(3) Any exercise of the authority of this subsection shall be subject to
  specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriations Act.
  `(c) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN COSTS FROM CERTAIN SALES- Sales under the Arms
  Export Control Act which are wholly paid from funds--
  `(1) which are made available on a grant basis under this chapter, or
  `(2) which, prior to the effective date of title IV of the International
  Security and Economic Cooperation Act of 1991, were transferred under the
  former authority of section 503(a)(3) of this Act or were made available
  on a nonrepayable or grant basis under the former authority of section 23
  of the Arms Export Control Act,
shall be priced to exclude the costs of salaries of members of the Armed
Forces of the United States (other than the Coast Guard).
  `(d) OBLIGATION OF FUNDS- Funds appropriated to carry out this chapter on a
  grant basis may be obligated upon apportionment in accordance with paragraph
  (5)(C) of title 31, United States Code, section 1501(a). Funds appropriated
  to carry out this chapter shall be available to finance the procurement of
  defense articles and defense services that are not sold by the United States
  Government only if the country or international organization proposing to
  make such procurements has first signed a grant agreement with the United
  States Government specifying the conditions under which such procurements
  may be financed with such funds.
  `(e) DEBT REPAYMENT- (1) Funds appropriated to carry out this chapter
  may be made available to a foreign country to make payments of principal
  and interest that it owes to the United States in connection with sales
  of defense articles or defense services on account of credits previously
  extended to it, or loans previously guaranteed, under this Act or the Arms
  Export Control Act.
  `(2) Any exercise of the authority in this subsection shall be subject to
  specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriations Act.'.
SEC. 403. AUTHORIZATION.
  Section 504(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry
  out the purposes of this chapter--
  `(A)(i) $1,800,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Israel;
  `(ii) The total amount of funds allocated for Israel each fiscal year
  pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be disbursed within 30 days after the
  beginning of the fiscal year or 30 days after the date of enactment of
  the Act appropriating such funds, whichever is later.
  `(iii) To the extent that the Government of Israel requests that funds
  be used for such purposes, amounts made available for Israel pursuant
  to paragraph (1) shall, as agreed by the Government of Israel and the
  Government of the United States, be available as follows:
  `(I) Up to $150,000,000 for each fiscal year shall be available for research
  and development in the United States.
  `(II) Up to $475,000,000 for each fiscal year shall be available for
  procurement in Israel of defense articles and defense services, including
  research and development.
  `(B) $1,300,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Egypt;
  `(C) $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Turkey;
  `(D) $350,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for Greece; and
  `(E) $560,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out
  the purposes of this chapter for recipients or purposes other than the
  countries referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of this section.'.
SEC. 404. CONDITIONS OF ELIGIBILITY.
  Section 505 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(h) In furnishing assistance under this chapter or the Arms Export
  Control Act, the President should consider the practice of the country
  concerned with respect to the law of war, including whether it provides
  instruction to its armed forces on compliance with the Geneva Conventions
  on the Protection of the Victims of Armed Conflict and other law of war
  treaties and customary international law.'.
SEC. 405. DEFENSE DRAWDOWN SPECIAL AUTHORITY.
  Section 506(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `$75,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `$100,000,000'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `direct' and all that follows
  through the period, and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `direct
  the drawdown of such articles, services, and the provision of such training
  for the purposes and under the authorities of chapters 8 and 9 of part I,
  and the Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962.'; and
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `$75,000,000' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `$100,000,000'.
SEC. 406. STOCKPILES.
  Section 514(b)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(b)(2) The value of such additions to stockpiles in foreign countries
  shall not exceed $429,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 407. EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES.
  Section 516 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking `during the fiscal years 1987 through
  1991' and inserting in lieu thereof `during the fiscal years 1992 and
  1993'; and
  (2) in subsection (e), by inserting `(1)' after `(e)' and adding at the
  end thereof:
  `(2) For purposes of this section the term `excess defense articles' shall
  be deemed to include excess property of the Coast Guard. For purposes
  of this section, the term `Department of Defense' shall be deemed, with
  respect to such excess property, to include the Coast Guard.'.
SEC. 408. INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
  Section 542 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `SEC. 542. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be
  appropriated to the President to carry out the purposes of this chapter
  $47,196,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 409. PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.
  Section 552(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry out
  the purposes of this chapter, in addition to amounts otherwise available
  for such purposes, $28,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.'.
SEC. 410. ANTITERRORISM ASSISTANCE.
  Section 575(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry
  out the purposes of this chapter $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993.'.
SEC. 411. AMENDMENTS TO ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT.
  The Arms Export Control Act is amended as follows:
  (1) Section 2(b) is amended by striking out--
  (A) `or financing for' in paragraph (1);
  (B) `financing' both other places it appears.
  (2) Section 3(c) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking out `(1)(A) No' and all that follows
  through `(B) No' and inserting in lieu thereof `(1) No';
  (B) in paragraph (1), as amended by subparagraph (A), by striking out
  `under this Act, or any predecessor Act,' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `, through sale, financing or otherwise, under this Act or the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 (or under any predecessor military sales or foreign
  assistance legislation)';
  (C) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking out `subparagraph (A)' and all that
  follows through `such paragraphs,' and inserting in lieu thereof `paragraph
  (1)'; and
  (D) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking out `subparagraph (B) of'.
  (3) Section 5(a) is amended by striking out `, and no credits (including
  participations in credits) or guaranties extended to or for' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `to'.
  (4) Section 6 is amended--
  (A) by striking out `, no credits or guarantees may be extended,'; and
  (B) by inserting `and no foreign military financing may be furnished under
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961' after `this Act'.
  (5) Section 21 is amended--
  (A) by amending subsection (c)(1) to read as follows:
  `(c)(1) Members of the Armed Forces assigned or detailed to provide defense
  services sold under this Act may not perform duties of a combatant nature,
  including any duty related to training and advising that may engage United
  States Armed Forces personnel in combat activities, outside the United
  States in connection with the performance of those defense services.';
  (B) in subsection (e)(1)(B)--
  (i) by striking out `either from' and all that follows through `nonrepayable
  basis under'; and
  (ii) by inserting in lieu thereof `from either (i) funds made available on
  a grant basis under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of
  1961, or (ii) funds which, prior to the effective date of the International
  Security and Economic Cooperation Act of 1991, were transferred under
  the former authority of section 503(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961 or were made available on a nonrepayable basis under the former
  authority of'; and
  (C) by adding at the end of subsection (e) the following:
  `(4) Effective with respect to defense articles sold after September 30,
  1991, and subject to specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriation
  Act, charges for defense articles that are not major defense equipment that
  are sold under this Act or licensed or approved for export under section
  38 of this Act may not include any nonrecurring costs of research on or
  development or production of those articles.'.
  (6) Section 23 is repealed.
  (7) Section 24 is amended--
  (A) by amending the section caption to read `Provisions Relating to Former
  Credit and Guaranty Authorities';
  (B) in subsection (a), by striking out `The' in the first sentence
  and inserting in lieu thereof `To the extent necessary to carry out the
  provisions under the heading `Foreign Military Sales Debt Reform' in title
  III of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
  Appropriations Act, 1988 (as contained in section 101(e) of Public Law
  100-202), the';
  (C) in subsection (b) by inserting `before the effective date of title IV
  of the International Security and Economic Cooperation Act of 1991' after
  `section 23'; and
  (D) by striking out subsection (c) and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following:
  `(c) The single reserve established under this section for the payment of
  claims under guaranties issued under the authority of this section may be
  referred to as the `Foreign Military Loan Liquidating Account'.
  `(d) Any guaranties issued under the authority of this section are backed
  by the full faith and credit of the United States.
  `(e) Any exercise of the authority of this section shall be subject to
  specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriations Act.'.
  (8) Section 25(a) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (5)(A) by striking out `military education' and all that
  follows through `guarantees,' and inserting in lieu thereof `and assistance
  under chapter 2 or chapter 5 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961,';
  (B) in paragraph (5)(B) by striking out `credits or guaranties under this
  Act' and inserting in lieu thereof `financing under chapter 2 of part II
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961'; and
  (C) in paragraph (11)--
  (i) by striking out `the Arms Export Control Act' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `section 23 or 24 of this Act'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the semicolon at the end of the paragraph
  the following: `, and the status of each extension of credit for the
  procurement of defense articles or defense services under chapter 2 of
  part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with respect to which there
  remains outstanding any unpaid obligation or potential liability'.
  (9) Section 25(d), as added by section 112(a) of the International Security
  and Development Cooperation Act of 1985, is amended by striking out `this
  Act or under section 503(a)(3)' and inserting in lieu thereof `chapter 2
  of part II'.
  (10) Section 31 is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 31. CEILING ON AGGREGATE ACQUISITION COST OF EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES-
  The aggregate acquisition cost to the United States of excess defense
  articles ordered by the President in any fiscal year for delivery to
  foreign countries or international organizations under the authority of
  chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or pursuant
  to sales under this Act may not exceed $500,000,000 (exclusive of ships
  and their onboard stores and supplies transferred in accordance with law,
  and of any defense articles with respect to which the President submits
  a certification under section 36(b) of this Act).'.
  (11) Section 36(a) of the Arms Export Control Act is amended--
  (A) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (10);
  (B) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (11) and inserting
  in lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(12) a listing by country of the estimated amount of funds which will be
  used for procurement of defense articles and defense services outside the
  United States as a result of any determination made during the preceding
  quarter pursuant to section 604 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
  together with the reasons for any such determination.'.
  (12) Section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act is further amended--
  (A) in subsection (a)--
  (i) by striking out `and' immediately before `(iv)'; and
  (ii) by striking out the period at the end thereof and inserting in lieu
  thereof `; and (v) the comparable kinds and amounts of similar defense
  articles or services that are available from other countries, and to which
  countries the United States system has already been offered.';
  (B) in subsection (b)(1)--
  (i) by striking out `information specified in clauses (i) through (iv)' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `information specified in clauses (i) through (v)';
  (ii) by striking out clause (K); and
  (iii) by redesignating clauses (L) through (P) as clauses (K) through (O),
  respectively; and
  (C) in subsection (c)(1)--
  (i) by striking out in the first sentence `and' immediately before `(C)'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the period at the end of the first sentence
  the following: `, and (D) a statement on the extent to which comparable
  kinds and amounts of similar defense articles or services are available
  from other countries; and to which countries the United States system in
  question has already been offered'.
  (13) Section 37 is amended--
  (A) in the section caption by striking out `Relating to Foreign Military
  Sales Credits';
  (B) in subsection (a), by striking out `section 23' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `the former authority of section 23 or under the authority of
  chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961'; and
  (C) in subsection (b), by inserting `the former authority of' after
  `extended pursuant to'.
  (14) Section 38(f) is amended by striking out the first sentence and
  inserting in lieu thereof the following: `Beginning one year after the
  date of enactment of the International Security and Economic Cooperation
  Act of 1991, and at least once every two years thereafter, the President
  shall review the regulations issued to carry out this section, including
  the items listed on the United States Munitions List, for the purpose of
  determining what changes in those regulations are appropriate, including
  determining what items, if any, no longer warrant export controls under
  this section. Based on each such review, the President shall revise those
  regulations as necessary and shall publish a revised compilation of those
  regulations.'.
  (15) Section 42 is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a), by striking out `, but subject to subsection (b)
  of this section,' in the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof `; ';
  (B) by repealing subsections (b) and (c) and redesignating subsections
  (d) through (f) as subsections (b) through (d), respectively; and
  (C) in subsection (b)(1), as so redesignated, by striking out `and
  guaranties under sections 21, 22, 23, 24,' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `under sections 21, 22,'.
SEC. 412. DESIGNATION OF MAJOR NON-NATO ALLIES.
  (a) DESIGNATION- Chapter 4 of the Arms Export Control Act is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
  `SEC. 48. DESIGNATION OF MAJOR NON-NATO ALLIES- Australia, New Zealand,
  Egypt, Israel, Japan, and the Philippines shall be deemed to be major
  non-NATO allies as of the effective date of this section for purposes of
  this Act and the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.'.
  (b) DEFINITION- Section 47 of that Act is amended--
  (1) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (7);
  (2) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (8) and inserting
  in lieu there `, and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(9) `major non-NATO ally' means a country which is designated in accordance
  with section 48 as a major non-NATO ally for purposes of this Act and the
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.'.
  (c) EXISTING DEFINITIONS- (1) The last sentence of section 21(g) of that
  Act is repealed.
  (2) Section 65(d) of that Act is amended--
  (A) by striking out `or major non-NATO', and
  (B) by striking out `or a' and all that follows through `2767a)'.
  (d) COOPERATIVE TRAINING AGREEMENTS- Section 21(g) of that Act is amended
  in the first sentence by striking out `similar agreements' and all that
  follows through `allies' and inserting in lieu thereof `similar agreements
  with countries'.
SEC. 413. COMMITMENT OF PRIOR YEAR MILITARY ASSISTANCE FUNDS AND PROHIBITION
ON DEPLETED URANIUM SHELLS.
Chapter 4 of the Arms Export Control Act is further amended by adding at
the end thereof the following new sections:
  `SEC. 49. COMMITMENT OF PRIOR YEAR MILITARY ASSISTANCE- If the President
  at any time notifies Congress that no further sales will be made pursuant
  to this Act after the date of such notification to a specified country
  under circumstances then prevailing, any uncommitted funds allocated for
  such country that, prior to the enactment of the International Security
  and Economic Cooperation Act of 1991, were transferred under the former
  authority of section 503(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for
  the purpose of financing such sales, and any uncommitted funds allocated
  for such country under the former  authority of section 23 of the Arms
  Export Control Act, may be committed to finance sales to other eligible
  countries under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
  subject to advance notification to the Committees on Appropriations and
  Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and
  Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and subject to specific
  amounts provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
  `SEC. 50. PROHIBITION ON DEPLETED URANIUM SHELLS- None of the funds
  authorized to be appropriated by this or any other Act may be made
  available to facilitate in any way the sale of M-833 antitank shells, or
  any comparable antitank shells containing a depleted uranium penetrating
  component, to any country other than--
  `(1) a country which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
  or
  `(2) a country which has been designated a major non-NATO ally under
  section 48 of this Act.'.
SEC. 414. POLICY ON MIDDLE EAST ARMS SALES.
  In recognition of the particular volatility of the Middle East, the
  tremendous cost in human lives and suffering in the aftermath of the
  aggression by Iraq, and the imperative that stability be maintained in the
  region while the course toward lasting peace is pursued, the authority
  to make sales under the Arms Export Control Act or to furnish military
  assistance under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  shall be exercised with regard to the Middle East only for the objectives
  set forth in subsection 501(b) of such Act and as follows:
  (1) to transfer defense articles and services only to those nations that
  have given reliable assurances that such articles will be used only for
  internal security, for legitimate self-defense, to permit the recipient
  country to participate in regional or collective arrangements or measures
  consistent with the Charter of the United Nations, or otherwise to permit
  the recipient country to participate in collective measures requested by
  the United Nations for the purpose of maintaining or restoring international
  peace and security;
  (2) to transfer defense articles and services to nations in the region only
  after it has been determined that such transfers will not contribute to an
  arms race, will not increase the possibility of outbreak or escalation of
  conflict and will not prejudice the development of bilateral or multilateral
  arms control arrangements;
  (3) to take all appropriate steps to ensure that each nation of the Middle
  East that is a recipient of United States defense articles and services--
  (A) affirms the right of all nations in the region to exist within safe
  and secure borders; and
  (B) supports or is engaged in direct regional peace negotiations; and
  (4) with the agreement of other suppliers, to prohibit the introduction of
  newly developed advanced defense articles and services that would create
  new and significantly higher combat capabilities in the region.
TITLE V--SPECIAL AUTHORITIES, RESTRICTIONS AND REPORTS
SEC. 501. UNANTICIPATED CONTINGENCIES.
  Section 451(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking `$25,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$40,000,000'.
SEC. 502. EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.
  Section 533(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) Of the funds appropriated to carry out this chapter for any fiscal
  year, up to $75,000,000 may be made available for emergency use under this
  chapter when the national interests of the United States urgently require
  economic support to promote economic or political stability.'.
SEC. 503. TERMINATION EXPENSES.
  Section 617 of the Foreign Assistance Act is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 617. TERMINATION EXPENSES- (a) Funds made available under this
  Act shall remain available for obligation for a period not to exceed
  eight months from the date of any termination of assistance under this
  Act for the necessary expenses of winding up programs related to such
  termination. Funds obligated under the authority of this Act prior to
  the effective date of the termination of assistance may remain available
  for expenditure for the necessary expenses of winding up programs related
  to such termination notwithstanding any provision of law restricting the
  expenditure of funds. In order to ensure the effectiveness of assistance
  under this Act, such expenses for orderly termination of programs may
  include the obligation and expenditure of funds to complete the training
  or studies outside their countries of origin of students whose course of
  study or training program began before assistance was terminated.
  `(b) For the purpose of making an equitable settlement of termination claims
  under extraordinary contractual relief standards, the President is authorized
  to adopt as a contract or other obligation of the United States Government,
  and assume (in whole or in part) any liabilities arising thereunder, any
  contract with a United States or third-country contractor that had been
  funded with assistance under this Act prior to the termination of assistance.
  `(c) Provision of this or any other Act requiring the termination of
  assistance under this Act shall not be construed to require the termination
  of guarantee commitments under part I of this Act that were entered into
  prior to the effective date of the termination of assistance.
  `(d) Unless specifically made inapplicable by another provision of law,
  the provisions of this section shall be applicable to the termination of
  assistance pursuant to any provision of law.'.
SEC. 504. EXEMPTION OF ASSISTANCE THROUGH NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
FROM RESTRICTIONS.
  The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by inserting the following
  new section:
  `SEC. 618. EXEMPTION OF ASSISTANCE THROUGH NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
  FROM RESTRICTIONS- (a) Subject to subsection (c), restrictions contained in
  this or any other Act with respect to assistance for a country shall not
  be construed to restrict assistance under part I in support of programs
  of nongovernmental organizations.
  `(b) The President shall take into consideration, in any case in which
  a restriction on assistance would be applicable but for this section,
  whether assistance for programs of nongovernmental organizations is in
  the national interests of the United States.
  `(c) Whenever the authority of this section is used to furnish assistance
  for a program of a nongovernmental organization, the President shall notify
  the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of
  the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and
  the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate. Such notification shall
  describe the program assisted, the assistance provided, and the national
  interests of the United States served in furnishing such assistance.'.
SEC. 505. COMMUNIST COUNTRIES.
  Section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(f)(1) No assistance shall be furnished under this Act (except section
  214(b)) to any Communist country as designated by the President pursuant
  to paragraph (2).
  `(2) The President shall designate those countries that are Communist
  countries for purposes of paragraph (1).
  `(3) The initial list of countries designated pursuant to this subsection
  shall be published in the Federal Register and shall be submitted to
  Congress. Thereafter, any additions to or deletions from such list shall
  be similarly published and submitted.
  `(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection, the
  President may remove a country from the Communist country list established
  pursuant to this subsection, or may exempt a listed country from the
  application of paragraph (1) of this subsection or other provisions of
  law that reference paragraph (1) of this subsection, if the President
  determines and reports to the Congress that such removal or exception is
  important to the national interest of the United States.'.
SEC. 506. MILITARY COUPS.
  Section 620(i) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(i)(1) No assistance shall be furnished under this Act to the government
  of a country whose duly elected Head of Government is deposed by military
  coup or decree.
  `(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this section,
  or any similar provision of law, the President may resume assistance to
  such government if he determines and reports to Congress prior to the
  resumption of such assistance that subsequent to the military coup or
  decree a democratically elected government has taken office.'.
SEC. 507. COUNTRIES IN ARREARS ON ASSISTANCE REPAYMENTS.
  Section 620(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(q) Assistance may not be furnished under this Act to the government of
  any country which is more than 1 year in arrears to the United States
  Government on any payment of interest or principal on any loan made or
  credit extended under this Act or under the former authorities of section
  23 or section 24 of the Arms Export Control Act, unless the President
  determines that assistance to such government is in the national interest
  and notifies the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Chairman
  of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate of such determination.'.
SEC. 508. MONITORING OF END-ITEM USE.
  Section 623(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking `supervision' and inserting in lieu thereof `monitoring'.
SEC. 509. CONTRACTING WITH INDIVIDUALS.
  Section 636(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking `contracting with individuals for personal service abroad'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `contracting on a limited term basis for
  the personal services of individuals engaged primarily in furnishing
  assistance abroad'.
SEC. 510. RECOGNITION OF AMERICAN GENEROSITY.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the people of the United States have been exceptionally generous in their
  efforts to assist the underdeveloped and developing nations of the world;
  (2) many of the world's roads, bridges, and dams, especially many in the
  Third World, were built with the assistance of American funds, yet many
  of the people of these nations today have little knowledge that these are
  gifts from the American taxpayer; and
  (3) the governments of some countries have claimed credit for projects
  actually financed by the United States.
  (b) PROPER RECOGNITION OF UNITED STATES GIFTS- The Administrator of the
  United States Agency for International Development shall take steps to
  ensure that for development assistance projects, capital infrastructure
  projects and all other assistance projects, there shall be prominently
  displayed an acknowledgment that the project was funded in part or in
  whole by the people of the United States.
SEC. 511. ACTIVITIES UNDER OTHER LAWS NOT AFFECTED.
  Section 638(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) Unless expressly provided to the contrary, provisions of this Act and
  other provisions applicable to foreign assistance shall not be construed to
  prohibit activities authorized by or conducted under the Peace Corps Act,
  the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, the Export-Import
  Bank Act of 1945, the National Security Act of 1947, the Central Intelligence
  Agency Act of 1949, the Agricultural Act of 1949, the Agricultural Trade
  Development and Assistance Act of 1954, the Food for Progress Act of 1985,
  the Inter-American Foundation Act, the African-American Foundation Act,
  title 10 of the United States Code, any National Defense Authorization Act
  or Department of Defense Appropriations Act, or the Migration and Refugee
  Assistance Act of 1962, or commercial export promotion activities of the
  Department of Agriculture (including the Commodity Credit Corporation).'.
SEC. 512. POLICY ON FURTHER MANAGEMENT REFORM.
  (a) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the President should
  continue to make efforts to improve the management of the foreign economic
  assistance program, including efforts--
  (1) to streamline the project development process and shorten the time
  from project conception to implementation;
  (2) to increase decentralization of field missions;
  (3) to reduce the number of projects and to increase the duration, and to
  increase the sustainability, of projects which are funded;
  (4) to decrease recurring costs;
  (5) to prepare a more detailed analysis of the impact of Agency for
  International Development projects for inclusion in the annual congressional
  presentation materials, together with a more thorough economic justification
  for the program for the next fiscal year;
  (6) to expand overseas tours for personnel and streamline mid-level
  management;
  (7) to streamline the contract process; and
  (8) to coordinate the United States economic assistance effort, including
  examination of the adequacy of the existing interagency coordinating
  mechanism, the need to reinvigorate the Development Coordination Committee,
  and the need and importance of multidonor coordination in Washington,
  D.C., and in field missions.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than six months after enactment of this Act, the
  Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall prepare and
  transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman
  of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report--
  (1) describing whatever recommendations and actions have been taken by the
  Agency with respect to paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a) and any
  other proposals to improve management of the foreign assistance program; and
  (2) setting forth the findings of the study described in subsection (c).
  (c) STUDY- The President shall conduct a study on the feasibility and
  impact of reducing the number of countries receiving economic assistance and
  improving coordination and management of our foreign assistance programs,
  including the feasibility of incorporating the Agency for International
  Development into the Department of State.
SEC. 513. ECONOMIC SUPPORT FUND REPORT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Within 180 days after enactment of this Act, the President
  shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing
  the extent to which economic support fund assistance provided in excess
  of $10,000,000 in any of the fiscal years 1987 through 1991 to a country
  has contributed to economic reform along market economic principles in
  that country.
  (b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee
  on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs
  of the House of Representatives; and
  (2) the term `economic support fund assistance' means assistance provided
  under chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
TITLE VI--SPECIAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVES AND OTHER REGION OR COUNTRY SPECIFIC
PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1--EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Subchapter A--Assistance to the Philippines
SEC. 601. MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE FOR THE PHILIPPINES.
  This subchapter may be cited as the `Multilateral Assistance Initiative
  for the Philippines Act of 1991'.
SEC. 602. FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF POLICY.
  (a) The Congress finds as follows:
  (1) The people of the Philippines and the people of the United States
  continue to enjoy a long-standing relationship of mutual respect and
  cooperation.
  (2) The return to democracy to the Philippines under the leadership of
  President Corazon Aquino has brought our two countries closer together and
  offers an opportunity to the Philippines to become an economic, social,
  and political leader in Southeast Asia.
  (3) The threat to democratic government in the Philippines from both the
  Communist insurgency and dissident elements in the Philippine military forces
  jeopardizes the efforts of the Government of the Philippines to broaden
  the participation of the people of the Philippines in the development of
  their country.
  (4) It is in the mutual interest of our two peoples that the Philippines
  be provided all possible assistance, including voluntary debt reduction
  programs under appropriate circumstances, in its efforts to redress the
  problems caused by economic deterioration and social inequity which have
  fueled the domestic insurgency.
  (5) The promotion of democracy and achievement of sustainable economic growth
  require a partnership among the Philippines, multilateral institutions,
  bilateral donors, and the private sector to help the Philippines restructure
  its economy and alleviate its debt service in order to achieve broadly-based,
  self-sustaining growth and to improve the quality of life of the people
  of the Philippines.
  (6) The Philippines is facing a serious environmental crisis stemming from
  the loss of tropical forests, growing soil erosion, pollution of rivers,
  lakes, and estuaries, and deterioration of fisheries. The promotion
  of sound environmental, natural resource, and agricultural management
  will enable the Philippines to achieve environmentally and economically
  sustainable development.
  (7) Since its inauguration in Tokyo in July, 1989, the Multilateral
  Assistance Initiative for the Philippines has resulted in the pledging
  of more than $6,800,000,000 in assistance from 26 donor countries and
  organizations.
  (b) It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (1) the United States should continue to participate with the multilateral
  financial institutions and other bilateral donors in a coordinated economic
  reform and development program, including voluntary debt reduction and
  environmental restoration and sustainable natural resource management
  programs, in the Philippines; and
  (2) a multiyear commitment of resources by the United States, other bilateral
  donors, and the multilateral financial institutions, with a continued
  reform effort and leadership role by the Government of the Philippines,
  will continue to be necessary in order to ensure economic growth in the
  Philippines and enhanced participation of the people of the Philippines
  in the democratic process.
SEC. 603. USES OF ASSISTANCE.
  The President is authorized to provide assistance on such terms and
  conditions as he may determine to carry out the purposes of this
  subchapter. Such assistance shall have as its ultimate objective, in
  conjunction with assistance provided by other donors, support of democracy
  in the Philippines, promotion of sustained economic growth led by the
  private sector, and improvement of living conditions for the people of
  the Philippines, and shall build upon the progress that the Government of
  the Philippines has made in the development and implementation of economic,
  structural, and administrative reforms and the implementation of sustainable
  natural resource management programs. The provision of assistance shall be
  linked to progress by the Government of the Philippines in the implementation
  of its economic, structural, and administrative reform program. Assistance
  may include support for--
  (1) economic, structural, administrative reforms and voluntary debt reduction
  programs necessary to stimulate private sector-led growth, such as import
  liberalization, export growth and diversification, and the privatization
  of state enterprises;
  (2) infrastructure needed by the private sector, particularly in rural areas;
  (3) strengthening the private sector, including promoting greater
  participation of the United States private sector in the development of
  the Philippines;
  (4) natural resource management (including coastal environment management)
  which supports sustained economic growth; and
  (5) such other programs as are consistent with the purposes of this
  subchapter.
SEC. 604. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
  For each year, beginning with the budget request for the fiscal year 1993,
  as soon as possible after the transmittal by the President of the Budget
  of the United States, the President shall submit a report to the Congress
  on progress made in implementing the objectives of this subchapter. Such
  report shall include a review of--
  (1) the actions of the Government of the Philippines to achieve
  the objectives for which assistance under this subchapter has been
  provided, including implementation of economic, structural, judicial,
  and administrative reforms;
  (2) the participation of other bilateral donors and multilateral financial
  institutions in the multilateral assistance program, including the level of
  their assistance, and the effectiveness of efforts to coordinate assistance
  activities; and
  (3) the progress being made toward the achievement of the objectives of
  the program and the obstacles to such achievement.
SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION.
  (a) There are authorized to be appropriated to the President for the
  purposes of this subchapter, in addition to amounts otherwise available
  for such purposes, $1,000,000,000 (less amounts appropriated to carry out
  the purposes of this subchapter for fiscal years 1990 and 1991), of which
  not more than $160,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated under this
  section for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Funds appropriated under
  this section are authorized to remain available until expended.
  (b) In allocating funds authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a),
  the President shall take all steps practicable to assure that environmental
  restoration and sustainable natural resource management are given appropriate
  support.
SEC. 606. DONOR COORDINATION.
  (a) It is the sense of the Congress that critical to the success of
  the Multilateral Assistance Initiative for the Philippines under this
  subchapter is the ability of the bilateral donors, the multilateral financial
  institutions, and the Government of the Philippines to coordinate effectively
  their objectives and programs.
  (b) It is further the sense of the Congress that all bilateral donors to
  this program should take steps to simplify procurement and disbursement
  procedures and to ensure that any conditions on the provision or use of
  assistance are complementary, and that the Government of the Philippines
  should establish such internal procedures and processes as will ensure
  the most effective use of the resources provided by the bilateral donors
  and the multilateral financial institutions.
SEC. 607. ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES.
  Except to the extent inconsistent with this Act, assistance under this Act
  shall be considered to be economic assistance under part I of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 for purposes of making available the authorities
  contained in that or other Acts.
Subchapter B--Humanitarian Assistance for Cambodian Democracy
SEC. 608. HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE FOR CAMBODIAN DEMOCRACY.
  (a) HUMANITARIAN AND DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE FOR CAMBODIA- Of the total amount
  of funds made available for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for development
  assistance and economic support fund assistance, the President may make
  available--
  (1) not more than $5,000,000 in each such fiscal year for humanitarian
  assistance and development assistance for civilian members of the Cambodian
  noncommunist resistance; and
  (2) not more than $15,000,000 in each such fiscal year for humanitarian
  and development assistance for civilians, other than those described in
  paragraph (1), within Cambodia.
  (b) APPLICABILITY OF EXISTING LAW- (1) Funds shall be made available
  under this section notwithstanding any law or regulation prohibiting trade
  with Cambodia or any national of Cambodia, and subject to the provisions
  of sections 531(e) and 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and
  the prohibitions contained in section 906 of the International Security
  Development Cooperation Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-83).
  (2) The President shall terminate assistance under this section to any
  Cambodian organization that he determines is cooperating, tactically or
  strategically, with the Khmer Rouge in their military operations.
  (c) ADMINISTRATION OF ASSISTANCE- (1) To the maximum extent possible, all
  funds made available under this section shall be administered directly by
  the Administrator.
  (2) To ensure accountability of funds expended inside Cambodia, the
  Administrator shall, subject to the availability of appropriations,
  contract with a private sector employee to establish an office in Phnom
  Penh, Cambodia, to oversee program activities.
  (d) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS- (1) Not later than 120 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct an on-site assessment
  within Cambodia, including Phnom Penh, to determine the requirements for
  the development of infrastructure and for the eradication of explosive mines.
  (2) Not later than February 1, 1992, the President shall submit to the
  Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore
  of the Senate a report describing all instances of military cooperation
  since January 1, 1991, between the Khmer Rouge and any individual, group,
  or faction of the noncommunist resistance and describing all instances of
  human rights abuses by the Khmer Rouge. Such report shall be submitted in
  classified as well as unclassified form.
  (e) HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE FOR CAMBODIAN CHILDREN AND VICTIMS OF WAR- In
  addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes under subsection
  (a), not more than $5,000,000 of the total amount of funds made available
  for development assistance and economic support fund assistance under
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be available for each of the
  fiscal years 1992 and 1993, to provide humanitarian assistance through
  international relief agencies  and United States private and voluntary
  organizations to children and victims of war within Cambodia.
  (f) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `Administrator' means the administrator of the agency primarily
  responsible for carrying out part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
  (2) the term `development assistance' means assistance furnished under
  chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
  (3) the term `economic support fund assistance' means assistance furnished
  under chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961;
  (4) the term `humanitarian assistance' includes food, clothing, medicine,
  and other humanitarian assistance, including the surveying and eradication
  of explosive mines, but such term does not include the provision of weapons,
  weapon systems, ammunition, or any equipment, vehicles, or material used
  by Cambodian military units or organizations; and
  (5) the term `private sector employee' means a person other than an officer
  or employee of the United States.
Subchapter C--Other Provisions Relating to the Region
SEC. 609. ASSISTANCE FOR BURMA.
  (a) Funds authorized by this Act, and funds made available in prior
  foreign assistance appropriations Acts which were allocated or used for
  assistance for Burma under chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, may be made available, notwithstanding
  any provision of law that restricts assistance to countries, for training
  and education assistance for Burmese outside of Burma who are displaced
  as a result of civil conflict, and for activities which support democratic
  pluralism in Burma.
  (b) Any exercise of the authority of this section shall be subject to
  specific amounts provided in advance in an appropriations Act.
SEC. 610. ASSISTANCE FOR MONGOLIA.
  In recognition of Mongolia's movement toward democracy in establishing a
  multiparty system and the steps it has taken to establish a free-market
  economy, it is the sense of Congress that additional assistance should be
  provided for Mongolia.
CHAPTER 2--NEAR EAST AND SOUTH ASIA
SEC. 611. ASSISTANCE FOR PAKISTAN.
  (a) Section 620E(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(a) The United States provides assistance to Pakistan in order to
  help the people and government of Pakistan establish enduring democratic
  institutions, and in order to ensure respect for fundamental human rights,
  including freedom of expression, freedom of association, and freedom of
  conscience. The conduct of regular and free elections open to all political
  parties and political leaders is an essential element of democracy. Military
  assistance to Pakistan shall help the country's democratic government deter
  and defend itself from external attack. United States assistance shall
  be provided only to the extent it serves to help avoid the profoundly
  destabilizing effects of the proliferation of nuclear weapons in South
  Asia and of the capability to manufacture nuclear weapons.'.
  (b) Section 620E(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking out `April 1, 1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `September
  30, 1994'.
SEC. 612. ASSISTANCE FOR AFGHANISTAN.
  Section 904 of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act
  of 1985 is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(a) AUTHORIZATION- The President may make available funds authorized
  to be appropriated to carry out chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of
  part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for the provision of food,
  medicine, or other humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people and for
  the development and implementation of long-range bilateral and multilateral
  reconstruction efforts for Afghanistan and the establishment of a broad-based
  freely elected Afghan Government notwithstanding any provision of law that
  restricts assistance to countries.'; and
  (2) by amending subsection (b) by inserting `chapter 1 of part I and'
  before `chapter 4 of part II'.
SEC. 613. PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS IN SRI LANKA.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the United States and Sri Lanka have a long tradition of friendship and
  share common interests in economic development, constitutional, multiparty
  government, and international peace and stability;
  (2) in recent years, the Government of Sri Lanka has confronted insurgents
  who have resorted to killing civilians, kidnapping, destroying of civilian
  property, and other acts of terror in their attempt to achieve political
  objectives through the use of violence;
  (3) in attempting to deal with these threats over the past several years,
  the Sri Lankan security forces, or persons acting under their control or
  influence, have committed serious and widespread violations of human rights,
  including disappearances and political killings, torture, failure to provide
  family members or lawyers with information on or access to detainees,
  and indiscriminate attacks that have caused civilian casualties in areas
  of civil conflict;
  (4) Sri Lankan Government officials have indicated that they recognize
  the seriousness of these problems and the importance of bringing an end
  to abuses;
  (5) despite the threats of terrorist violence, the government of Sri Lanka
  has maintained democratic institutions in the country, and has taken steps
  that, if fully and vigorously implemented, could seriously address important
  human rights concerns; and
  (6) these steps include inviting representatives of international human
  rights monitoring organizations to visit Sri Lanka, permitting access to
  international humanitarian organizations such as the International Committee
  of the Red Cross, permitting access to United Nations organizations
  dealing with investigations of human rights concerns, and establishing
  official bodies to investigate disappearances and other allegations of
  human rights abuses.
  (b) STATEMENT OF THE CONGRESS- The Congress--
  (1) strongly condemns ongoing acts of terror by insurgents operating in
  the north, east, and south of Sri Lanka;
  (2) expresses its deep concern about continuing reports of serious abuses
  of human rights by the Sri Lankan security forces or persons acting under
  their control or influence;
  (3) welcomes statements by Sri Lankan officials indicating that they
  recognize the seriousness of these problems and the importance of bringing
  an end to abuses;
  (4) welcomes efforts by the Sri Lankan Government to begin to address human
  rights concerns through measures that include inviting representatives of
  international human rights monitoring organizations to visit Sri Lanka,
  permitting access to international humanitarian organizations such as
  the International Committee of the Red Cross, permitting access to United
  Nations organizations dealing with investigations of human rights concerns,
  and establishing official bodies to investigate disappearances and other
  allegations of human rights abuses; and
  (5) believes that continuing progress on these issues will help to ensure
  further improvement in the relationship between the United States and Sri
  Lanka based on mutual trust and respect.
  (c) CONSIDERATIONS IN FURNISHING ASSISTANCE AND MAKING MILITARY SALES-
  During fiscal years 1992 and 1993, in determining whether to furnish
  assistance to Sri Lanka under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the
  Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (other than
  emergency humanitarian assistance under either such Act), and whether to
  make any sales of defense articles or defense services to Sri Lanka under
  the Arms Export Control Act, the President shall taken into account whether
  the Government of Sri Lanka has--
  (1) established a public register of detainees and ensured that detainees
  have access to lawyers and family members;
  (2) taken steps designed to deter disappearances and killings of civilians
  in all provinces by persons under the control or influence of government
  forces, such as enhanced efforts to pursue criminal investigations and
  prosecutions of those responsible for such abuses;
  (3) taken measures designed to minimize civilian casualties in its combat
  operations in the north and east; and
  (4) made serious and substantial efforts to investigate and prosecute
  those involved in the murder of journalist Richard DeZoysa.
  (d) ASSISTING THE SRI LANKAN GOVERNMENT TO PROVIDE HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING
  AND EDUCATION- The President should encourage and assist the Government
  of Sri Lanka to provide effective human rights education and training in
  educational institutions in Sri Lanka, within the society at large, and
  to members of the security forces, including the police, the military,
  and paramilitary organizations.
CHAPTER 3--EUROPE
Subchapter A--SEED Program Support for Transformation From Communism to
Free-Market Democracy
SEC. 621. SHORT TITLE; AMENDMENT TO PREAMBLE OF SEED ACT OF 1989.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This subchapter may be referred to as the `Support for
  East European Democracy Act of 1991' or as the `SEED II Act'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO TITLE OF THE SUPPORT FOR EAST EUROPEAN DEMOCRACY ACT
  OF 1989- The preamble of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED)
  Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-179), also known as the SEED Act, is amended
  to read as follows: `An Act to authorize assistance for activities within
  a comprehensive Support for East European Democracy (SEED) program to
  promote political and economic transition in countries of Europe emerging
  from the tyranny and legacy of communist rule.'.
SEC. 622. SEED AUTHORITIES; AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 2 of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989
  is amended by adding the following new subsections:
  `(d) GEOGRAPHICAL SCOPE OF AUTHORITY- For purposes of this Act, `Eastern
  Europe' shall be defined to include all nations of Europe which experienced
  communist rule after World War II.
  `(e) EFFICACY CRITERION FOR USE OF AUTHORITY- Where an authority in this
  Act is available to be exercised for a bilateral program or activity
  relating to Poland or Hungary, the President may exercise such authority
  with respect to another country of Eastern Europe, or with respect to a
  particular constituent republic of such a country, if he determines--
  `(1) that such country or constituent republic has taken significant steps
  toward representative democracy and a market-oriented economy,  including
  respect for private property ownership;
  `(2) that such activity would have the effect of promoting the values and
  institutions of representative democracy and  a free-market economy  in
  that country or constituent republic; and
  `(3) that such activity would not have the effect of sustaining or fortifying
  governmental or other organizations which, by reason of their composition
  and practices, are inimical to the development of representative democracy
  and a free-market economy.
  `(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For assistance authorized by this Act,
  there are authorized to be appropriated to the President $400,000,000 for
  each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, which are authorized to remain available
  until expended. Authorizations of appropriations elsewhere in this Act
  may be utilized only within the overall level stipulated in this paragraph.
  `(g) ACTION IN THE BALTIC STATES AND CONSTITUENT REPUBLICS- It is the
  sense of the Congress that--
  `(1) the President, in the course of exercising the authority set forth
  in subsection (e) of this section, should establish nondiplomatic liaison
  offices in the Baltic states and in constituent republics of East European
  countries where such offices would further the purposes of this Act by
  facilitating liaison with individuals, organizations, and governmental
  entities representing the aspiration to achieve representative democracy
  and free-market institutions;
  `(2) technical assistance facilitated by these offices should include
  assistance in the areas of free market economics, business education,
  constitutional law, municipal management, public health, democratic
  institutions, and English language instruction; and
  `(3) of the funds authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years
  1992 and 1993 by this Act and for chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961, the President should allocate up to $10,000,000
  for such assistance to the Baltic states.'.
SEC. 623. EASTERN EUROPEAN AGRICULTURE.
  Title I of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989
  is amended--
  (1) by adding the following new paragraph at the end of section 103(a):
  `(4) SUPPORT FOR FREE MARKET POLICIES- The Secretary shall seek to support
  adoption of agricultural policies in each of the East European countries
  that are based on free-market policies, and shall seek to discourage
  policies that distort market signals through protective import barriers
  or government export subsidies.';
  (2) in section 103(b)(1), by--
  (A) striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (A);
  (B) striking `reform; and' at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting
  in lieu thereof `reform, and'; and
  (C) by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
  `(C) In furtherance of section 103(a)(4), the Secretary shall seek to
  establish Institutes for Agricultural Policies in Eastern Europe and in
  the United States.  Such institutes shall be centers for the education and
  training of policy makers in agricultural free-market economics; and'; and
  (3) in section 103(c), by--
  (A) striking `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
  (B) striking `grains.' at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu
  thereof `grains; and'; and
  (C) adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(3) For each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, twenty percent of food
  assistance provided under this section should be in the form of value
  added agricultural products.'.
SEC. 624. ENTERPRISE FUNDS.
  Section 201 of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989
  is amended by deleting `for Poland and Hungary' in the title and adding
  the following subsections:
  `(q) OTHER ENTERPRISE FUNDS- Authorities and limitations applicable to
  Enterprise Funds for Poland and Hungary shall apply to any other Enterprise
  Fund to which the President determines the United States should contribute
  pursuant to this Act. The officers, members, or employees of such other
  Enterprise Fund shall enjoy the same status under law that is applicable to
  the Enterprise Funds for Poland and Hungary. For any such other Enterprise
  Fund and notwithstanding subsection (p), the requirement for an annual
  report by January 31 shall not begin until twelve months after such other
  Enterprise Fund is designated to receive funds and support.
  `(r) ENTERPRISE FUND GUIDELINES- It is the sense of the Congress that the
  purpose of each Enterprise Fund is to facilitate the development of the
  private sector in an East European country by undertaking or supporting
  initiatives that in the absence of Enterprise Fund support might not
  otherwise occur.  Accordingly, Congress does not expect Enterprise Funds
  to base each action on the prudential expectation of a high confidence of
  success. Rather, Enterprise Fund decisionmaking should be guided by a more
  entrepreneurial philosophy which--
  `(1) weighs costs, risks, and potential benefits;
  `(2) recognizes that certain undertakings, such as training and start-up
  activities, may require temporary subsidy; and
  `(3) assesses the success of the Enterprise Fund not by its balance sheet
  but by its overall contribution to the transformation of that East European
  country from a state-controlled economy to the free market.'.
SEC. 625. SUPPORT FOR AMERICAN BUSINESS IN EASTERN EUROPE.
  Title III of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 308. SUPPORT FOR AMERICAN BUSINESS.
  `(a) DIRECTOR FOR AMERICAN BUSINESS INITIATIVE- It is the sense of the
  Congress that the President should designate, within the Department of
  Commerce, a director for American business initiative in Eastern Europe,
  who should, in cooperation with the overall coordinator of the SEED Program,
  be responsible for--
  `(1) collecting and disseminating information concerning American business
  opportunities in Eastern Europe and, in that capacity, overseeing the East
  European Business Information Center system;
  `(2) assisting in the establishment of American Business Centers pursuant
  to subsection (b);
  `(3) assisting American companies in organizing trade fairs, exhibitions,
  and other undertakings designed to promote American exports, services,
  and investment in such countries; and
  `(4) otherwise acting to promote the development of American business
  opportunities in East European countries.
  `(b) AMERICAN BUSINESS CENTERS- It is the sense of the Congress that
  the President should, where he deems it would be effective in promoting
  the purposes of this Act, establish American Business Centers to support
  American business initiative in Eastern Europe. Such Centers should--
  `(1) be designed to provide economies of time and scale to American
  businesses seeking to initiate trade and investment;
  `(2) rely upon resources of the Departments of State and Commerce;
  `(3) operate, where feasible and to the maximum extent possible, on a
  user-fee basis; and
  `(4) be terminated as soon as functionally and economically equivalent
  services for American businesses are available from the private sector.'.
SEC. 626. ANDREI SAKHAROV EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGE ACT.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Andrei Sakharov
  Educational Exchange Act'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO MECEA- Section 112(a) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural
  Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2460(a)), setting forth authorities for
  exchange programs managed by the  United States Information Agency, is
  amended by adding a paragraph as follows:
  `(10) the Andrei Sakharov Educational Exchange Program, to further
  cooperation between the  United States and the nations of Eastern Europe
  as defined in Public Law 101-179, in the fields of environmental protection
  and the health sciences through the exchange of graduate students.'.
  (c) AMENDMENT TO SEED ACT- Title IV of the Support for East European
  Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 is amended by adding at the end thereof the
  following section:
`SEC. 405. ANDREI SAKHAROV EDUCATIONAL EXCHANGES.
  `(a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  `(1) the leadership and quiet heroism of Andrei Sakharov stand as
  an inspiration to those seeking to promote and defend internationally
  recognized human rights and to bring science and technology to bear in
  betterment of the human condition; and
  `(2) the stature of Andrei Sakharov as a great 20th century leader
  warrants commemoration in an exchange program to facilitate study by
  graduate students in the United States and Eastern Europe in the field of
  environmental protection and the health sciences;
  `(3) accordingly, Congress has enacted authority for implementation of
  the Andrei Sakharov Educational Exchange Program.
  `(b) USE OF AUTHORITY- Congress urges the President to use the authority
  provided the Andrei Sakharov Educational Exchange Act as an integral part
  of the SEED Program.'
SEC. 627. DEVELOPMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL INSTITUTIONS.
  Title V of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 is
  amended by adding at the end thereof the following new sections:
`SEC. 504. MULTILATERAL SUPPORT FOR PARLIAMENTARY DEVELOPMENT.
  `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  `(1) for more than three decades, the North Atlantic Assembly has provided
  a valuable forum for communication and debate among parliamentarians of
  NATO-member countries;
  `(2) with United States support, the North Atlantic Assembly has afforded
  associate-member status to delegations from parliaments of the former Warsaw
  Pact nations, which have begun to participate in the Assembly's proceedings;
  `(3) the leadership council of the North Atlantic Assembly has approved
  a Presidential Plan (otherwise known as the `Rose-Roth Initiative') to
  be implemented over a 3-year period, to encourage and support expanded
  participation by East European parliamentarians as a highly effective
  means of--
  `(A) promoting the development of democratic values and institutions in
  Eastern Europe; and
  `(B) serving the overall objectives of the NATO Alliance.
  `(b) UNITED STATES PARTICIPATION IN MULTILATERAL ACTION- It is the
  sense of the Congress that the President should, from funds authorized
  to be appropriated by this Act, allocate up to $750,000 annually to
  contribute support, in conjunction with appropriate contributions from
  other NATO-member parliaments, to the North Atlantic Assembly's plan for
  expanded East European participation.
`SEC. 505. INSTRUCTION IN CIVILIAN-MILITARY RELATIONS.
  `(a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Eastern European
  Security Assistance Act of 1991'.
  `(b) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  `(1) the nations of Eastern Europe are undergoing profound political,
  economic, and social change;
  `(2) in the emerging Eastern European democracies, economic austerity,
  ethnic rivalries, and ideological antagonisms continue to threaten the
  development and consolidation of the institutions of free society;
  `(3) decades of cooperation involving indigenous military and political
  forces, occupying Soviet troops, and the Soviet secret police have left
  a dangerous legacy with which the region's new democratic leaders must
  now contend;
  `(4) to overcome this legacy, newly elected leaders must successfully
  establish and institutionalize civilian control of their nation's military,
  police, and intelligence services, as well as the administration of justice,
  while imbuing such forces with the knowledge of the values and procedures
  necessary for the maintenance of democracy and the rule of law;
  `(5) the 200-year old American experience in the civilian management of
  administration of justice and of the military and internal security forces,
  and the experiences of the nations of Western Europe and Latin America,
  both those with long-standing democracies and those that have recently
  undergone democratic transitions, represent a collective Western asset; and
  `(6) this body of accumulated experience and civilian expertise might
  be of substantial benefit to the leadership and people of the emerging
  democracies of Eastern Europe.
  `(c) AUTHORIZATION- (1) Up to $5,000,000 of the funds made available to carry
  out section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are authorized for
  United States participation in a comprehensive program of Western assistance
  aimed at strengthening democratic institutions in East European countries
  by promoting the empowerment of civilian managers in the justice, defense,
  and internal security establishments of such countries through conferences
  and exchanges designed to familiarize such managers with institutional
  models for the administration of civil justice and relations between
  civilian authorities and military and internal security forces. United
  States participation in such instruction should reflect the essential
  distinction between internal security and national defense embodied in the
  principle of posse comitatus, which is a cornerstone of the United States
  experience and has served to protect American political liberties.
  `(2)(A) No program, project, or exchange undertaken pursuant to the authority
  of this section, shall take place with the authorities of any nonelected
  government, or with a regime which the Secretary of State determines, in
  consultation with Congress, carries out gross, sustained and unremediated
  human rights violations, or with any government which the Secretary of State
  otherwise determines is grossly negligent in the prosecution of hate crimes.
  `(B) Personnel for any development and training activity undertaken pursuant
  to this section shall be limited to bona fide criminal justice personnel and
  civilian development specialists and may not include, in the formulation,
  formation, or operation of any activity, intelligence personnel from the
  Central Intelligence Agency or the Department of Defense.
  `(3) All training shall include as a primary goal civilization of police
  forces, their removal from the control of the nation's political parties
  and armed forces, and their direct responsibility for the nation's civilian
  political leadership.
  `(d) EXTENSION OF ADMINISTRATION OF FBI TRAINING AND JUSTICE AND ICITAP
  ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION- The President
  is encouraged and authorized to include in the training offered by the
  National Academy of the Federal Bureau of Investigation an appropriate
  number of students from East European countries.
  `(2) EXTENSION OF ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE AND ICITAP ASSISTANCE TO EASTERN
  EUROPEAN COUNTRIES- Congress encourages and authorizes the President to
  exercise the authority provided by section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961 to furnish international criminal investigative training assistance
  and administration of justice assistance to countries in Eastern Europe.
  `(e) ROLE OF USIA- Congress urges that the Director of the United States
  Information Agency (USIA) arrange for the translation into appropriate
  languages of books, manuscripts, and materials relevant to the purposes of
  this section for prompt distribution to parliaments, relevant ministries,
  and institutions of higher education in Eastern Europe.
  `(f) REPORT- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Secretary of State, together with the Attorney General, shall submit
  to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations
  of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on
  Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on possible sites
  for the establishment of no less than three legal attache posts at United
  States embassies in Eastern Europe.
  `(g) ADMINISTRATION- In carrying out this Act, the Secretary of State
  may draw upon the available resources of the Agency for International
  Development, the Department of Justice, and nongovernmental organizations
  such as the National Endowment for Democracy and Helsinki Watch.'.
SEC. 628. ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES.
  Title VIII of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 806. RELATIONSHIP TO THE FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961- Except to
  the extent inconsistent with this Act, assistance under this Act shall be
  considered to be economic assistance under part I of the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961 for purposes of making available the authorities contained in
  that or other Acts.'.
SEC. 629. REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL CENTER FOR CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE.
  The Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe located in
  Budapest, Hungary, and authorized under section 502(d) of the Support for
  East European Democracy Act of 1989, shall be treated as an international
  organization for the purpose of detailing United States Government personnel.
SEC. 630. USE OF POLISH CURRENCIES FOR HOLOCAUST EDUCATION.
  Title IV of the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 is
  amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 404. USE OF POLISH CURRENCIES FOR HOLOCAUST EDUCATION.
  `Up to the equivalent of $500,000 of the nonconvertible Polish currencies
  which are held by the United States as of the date of enactment of the
  International Security and Economic Cooperation Act of 1991 which are
  derived from programs administered by the Commodity Credit Corporation, or
  pursuant to the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954,
  section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, or the Food for Progress
  Act of 1985, shall be made available for the Research Center on Jewish
  History and Culture of the Jagiellonian University of Krakow, Poland,
  established for the study of events related to the Holocaust in Poland.'.
Subchapter B--Baltic Humanitarian Relief
SEC. 631. BALTIC HUMANITARIAN RELIEF.
  Chapter 9 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  inserting the following new section:
  `SEC. 495A. BALTIC HUMANITARIAN RELIEF- (a) The Congress recognizes that
  prompt United States assistance is desirable to help alleviate suffering
  in the Baltic republics which has caused great hardship among the Baltic
  peoples, especially with regard to a severe shortage of medical supplies
  and the basic necessities of life.
  `(b)(1) The Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall--
  `(A) furnish, in accordance with the authorities of this chapter,
  humanitarian assistance for the relief of the Estonian, Latvian, and
  Lithuanian people;
  `(B) solicit private sector donations of humanitarian assistance for Estonia,
  Latvia, and Lithuania; and
  `(C) cooperate with private relief agencies attempting to provide such
  humanitarian aid.
  `(2) The Commander-in-Chief of the United States Transportation Command
  is authorized to provide all airlift and sealift necessary to transport
  United States public and private donations of medical supplies to the
  Baltic peoples on a regular basis.
  `(c)(1) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated under chapter 4 of part
  II of this Act, $20,000,000 may be made available to carry out subsections
  (b)(1) and (b)(2).
  `(2) The authority contained in this Act to transfer funds between accounts
  shall not apply with respect to funds made available pursuant to paragraph
  (1).
  `(d) Assistance may be provided under this section notwithstanding any
  provision of law that restricts assistance to countries other than laws
  referred to in section 503(b) of the Support for East European Democracy
  (SEED) Act of 1989.
  `(e) The Congress urges the President to begin negotiations with the nations
  surrounding Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, including the Union of Soviet
  Socialist Republics and Poland, regarding the importation of humanitarian
  assistance. Pending conclusion of these negotiations, the Administrator
  of the United States Agency for International Development shall furnish
  the necessary humanitarian assistance through the International Red Cross,
  the Estonian, Latvian, and Lithuanian Red Cross, CARITAS, and other relief
  agencies, to ensure the Baltic peoples begin to receive humanitarian
  assistance immediately.
  `(f) For purposes of this section, the term `humanitarian assistance'
  includes--
  `(1) oil, gas, and fuel for emergency vehicles and medical facilities;
  `(2) water purification supplies, materials for immunization, and other
  materials needed to prevent the outbreak of contagious diseases and to
  safeguard public health;
  `(3) medical supplies; and
  `(4) food and clothing.'.
Subchapter C--CSCE Assembly
SEC. 632. SHORT TITLE.
  This subchapter may be cited as the `CSCE Assembly Participation Act'.
SEC. 633. UNITED STATES DELEGATION TO THE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY OF THE
CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE.
  In accordance with the allocation of seats to the United States in the
  Parliamentary Assembly of the conference on Security and Cooperation in
  Europe (CSCE Assembly), not to exceed 17 members of Congress shall be
  appointed to meet jointly and annually with representative parliamentary
  groups from other CSCE member nations for the purposes of--
  (1) assessing the implementation of the objectives of the CSCE;
  (2) discussing subjects addressed during the meetings of the Council of
  Ministers for Foreign Affairs and the biennial Summit of Heads of State
  or Government; and
  (3) initiating and promoting such national and multilateral measures as
  may further cooperation and security in Europe.
SEC. 634. APPOINTMENT OF DELEGATION.
  (a) ALLOCATION BETWEEN SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES- Of the Members
  of Congress to be appointed for the purpose of this subchapter (hereinafter
  designated as the `United States Delegation')--
  (1) in 1992 and every even-numbered year thereafter, 9 Members shall be
  appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives from Members
  of the House of Representatives (not less than 4 of whom, including the
  Chairman of the United States Delegation, shall be from the Committee on
  Foreign Affairs); and 8 Members shall be appointed by the President of the
  Senate from Members of the Senate (not less than 4 of whom, including the
  Vice Chairman of the United States Delegation, shall be from the Committee
  on Foreign Relations) upon recommendations of the Majority and Minority
  Leaders of the Senate; and
  (2) in every odd-numbered year beginning in 1993, 9 Members shall be
  appointed by the President of the Senate from Members of the Senate (not
  less than 4 of whom, including the Chairman of the United States Delegation,
  shall be from the Committee on Foreign Relations) upon recommendations of
  the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate; and 8 Members shall be
  appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives from Members of
  the House of Representatives (not less than 4 of whom, including the Vice
  Chairman, shall be from the Committee on Foreign Affairs).
  (b) LENGTH OF APPOINTMENT- Appointments under subsection (a) shall be for
  the period of each meeting of the CSCE Assembly, except for Members of
  the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations,
  whose appointment shall be for the duration of each Congress.
  (c) CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN- Of the Members of the Congress to be
  appointed for the purposes of this section, the Chairman of the United
  States Delegation shall--
  (1) in 1992 and every even-numbered year thereafter, be from the Committee
  on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Vice Chairman
  shall be from the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
  (2) in 1993 and every odd-numbered year thereafter, be from the Committee
  on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Vice Chairman shall be from
  the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman shall act in his stead.
  (d) DELEGATION SECRETARIES- Each delegation shall have two secretaries,
  one of whom shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Affairs of the House of Representatives and one of whom shall be appointed
  by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 635. FUNDING.
  (a) UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTION- There is authorized to be made available
  for each fiscal year the sum of $750,000 from funds appropriated to the
  Department of State for assessed contributions to international organizations
  for the annual contribution of the United States toward the maintenance
  of the CSCE Assembly.
  (b) UNITED STATES PARTICIPATION- There is authorized to be made available
  for each fiscal year $80,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of
  State for assessed contributions to international organizations to assist
  in meeting the expenses of the United States Delegation.  For each fiscal
  year for which an appropriation is made under this subsection, half of such
  appropriation may be disbursed on voucher to be approved by the Chairman
  and half of such appropriation may be disbursed on voucher to be approved
  by the Vice Chairman.
  (c) AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS- Amounts authorized to be appropriated
  under this subsection shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 636. ANNUAL REPORT.
  The United States Delegation shall, for each fiscal year for which an
  appropriation is made, submit to the Congress a report including its
  expenditures under such appropriation.  The certificate of the Chairman and
  Vice Chairman of the United States Delegation shall be final and conclusive
  upon the accounting officers in the auditing of the accounts of the United
  States Delegation.
CHAPTER 4--MIDDLE EAST
Subchapter A--Arms Suppliers Regime
SEC. 641. SHORT TITLE.
  This subchapter may be cited as the `Arms Suppliers Regime Act of 1991'.
SEC. 642. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) since the mid-1970's, the nations of the Middle East have imported
  more than $200 billion in conventional arms, most provided by the five
  permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, Germany, Italy,
  Brazil, and Argentina;
  (2) according to the Director of Central Intelligence, many nations of
  the Middle East also now possess, or are seeking to possess, weapons of
  mass destruction and ballistic missile delivery systems;
  (3) the uncontrolled proliferation of advanced conventional and
  unconventional weapons threatens the security and stability of the Middle
  East and constitutes a debilitating diversion of the region's resources;
  (4) the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council,
  by acting jointly and in conjunction with other major arms supplier
  nations, could sharply curtail the transfer of unconventional and advanced
  conventional weapons to the Middle East;
  (5) leaders in several of these supplier nations have expressed a
  willingness to participate in a multilateral regime aimed at effecting
  such limitations; and
  (6) the United States can and should play a leadership role in creating
  such a multilateral regime.
SEC. 643. ARMS SUPPLIERS REGIME.
  (a) CONVENING OF ARMS SUPPLIERS CONFERENCE- The Secretary of State should
  undertake good faith efforts to convene a conference of representatives
  from the governments of the United States, the Soviet Union, China, the
  United Kingdom, France, and other appropriate nations to establish the
  arms suppliers regime as described in subsection (b).
  (b) PURPOSE OF ARMS SUPPLIERS REGIME- The purpose of such conference
  should be to establish an arms suppliers regime which, through exchanges
  of information and implementation of formal and informal arrangements, acts--
  (1) to halt the flow of unconventional arms, such as ballistic missiles,
  chemical weapons, biological weapons, and nuclear weapons, and technologies
  necessary to produce or assemble such arms, to all nations in the Middle
  East;
  (2) to limit and control the proliferation of advanced conventional arms
  to all nations in the Middle East; and
  (3) to provide incentives for regional arms control agreements in the
  Middle East by using all available means.
SEC. 644. ACTIONS BY ARMS SUPPLIERS REGIME.
  (a) HALTING PROLIFERATION OF UNCONVENTIONAL WEAPONS- In order to achieve
  the purposes described in section 643(b)(1), the United States should
  build on existing and future agreements among supplier nations by proposing
  that all members of the arms suppliers regime adopt as a matter of their
  national policy--
  (1) the limitations and controls contained in the Enhanced Proliferation
  Control Initiative;
  (2) the limitations and controls contained in the Missile Technology
  Control Regime (MTCR);
  (3) the guidelines followed by the Australia Group on chemical and biological
  arms proliferation;
  (4) the guidelines adopted by the Nuclear Suppliers Group (the London
  Group); and
  (5) other appropriate controls that serve to halt the flow of unconventional
  weapons to the Middle East.
  (b) CONTROLLING PROLIFERATION OF ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS- In order
  to achieve the purpose described in section 643(b)(2), the United States
  should propose that the arms suppliers regime--
  (1) develop greater information-sharing practices among supplier nations
  regarding potential arms sales to all nations of the Middle East;
  (2) examine the feasibility of applying, for the control of advanced
  conventional arms, procedures already developed by the International Atomic
  Energy Agency, the Multilateral Coordinating Committee on Export Controls
  (COCOM), and the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR); and
  (3) examine the feasibility of other strict controls on the proliferation
  of advanced conventional arms to the Middle East.
  (c) PROMOTION OF REGIONAL ARMS CONTROL AGREEMENTS- In order to achieve the
  purpose described in section 643(b)(3), the United States should explore
  with nations in the region--
  (1) how to transform the Middle East into a region free of ballistic
  missiles, chemical weapons, biological weapons, and nuclear weapons;
  (2) the implementation of confidence-building and security-building
  measures, including advance notification of certain ground and aerial
  military exercises by all nations in the Middle East; and
  (3) other useful arms control measures that can be negotiated by nations
  in the Middle East.
SEC. 645. MULTILATERAL MORATORIUM ON ADVANCED CONVENTIONAL ARMS.
  (a) MULTILATERAL MORATORIUM- It is the sense of the Congress that--
  (1) following the defeat of Iraqi military forces, the military balance
  in the Middle East has improved for United States friends and allies in
  the region;
  (2) the maintenance of this more favorable balance would be best served
  by a joint multilateral commitment by arms supplier nations to establish
  and rigorously enforce a prohibition on the introduction into the region
  of advanced conventional arms capable of altering this balance; and
  (3) the United States could and should demonstrate its commitment to
  the creation of an effective arms suppliers regime by challenging other
  prospective participants to negotiate and participate in a multilateral
  moratorium affecting the transfer of all such advanced conventional arms.
  (b) CHALLENGE MORATORIUM- In order to promote the goal set forth in
  subsection (a)(1) the President is authorized to negotiate, and commit
  the  United States to participate in a multilateral moratorium prohibiting
  the transfer of advanced conventional arms to the Middle East; and (2)
  upon the President's certification to Congress that such a  moratorium
  has been established by international agreement, it shall be the policy
  of the United States to comply with such moratorium.
SEC. 646. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
  (a) REPORT ON PLAN FOR MULTILATERAL ARMS SUPPLIERS REGIME- The President
  shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the
  Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report
  setting forth a United States plan for leading the world community in
  establishing a multilateral regime to restrict transfers of advanced
  conventional and unconventional arms to the Middle East.
  (b) REPORT ON REGIONAL SECURITY AND ARMS CONTROL- As part of the first
  annual report described in subsection (c), the President shall include a
  section analyzing--
  (1) the current and projected military threat to allied and friendly nations
  in the Middle East and the military equipment needed to deter and defend
  against such current or projected threat in the aftermath of the Gulf War;
  (2) the feasibility of regional arms control arrangements to improve the
  stability of the Middle East and the security of friendly nations in the
  region, including the feasibility of--
  (A) negotiating a new multilateral accord banning the acquisition,
  production, and testing of surface-to-surface missiles by states in the
  region with a view to ultimate elimination of such missiles from the
  arsenals of states in the region;
  (B) a ban on all weapons of mass destruction in the region;
  (C) opening for ratification or accession by nations of the Middle East the
  INF Treaty, which bans all ground-launched ballistic and cruise missiles
  having ranges between 500 and 5,500 kilometers;
  (D) applying techniques used in the CFE Treaty as a model for regional
  arms control initiatives; and
  (E) applying confidence and security building measures, such as the `open
  skies' regime, that are under consideration or in effect for countries of
  Europe and North America.
  (c) ANNUAL REPORT ON TRANSFERS AND THE REGIONAL BALANCE- Not later than
  October 1 of each year, the President shall submit to the Committee on
  Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
  the House of Representatives a report--
  (1) documenting all transfers of conventional and unconventional arms
  to the Middle East over the previous year and the previous five years,
  including sources, types, and acquirers of weapons;
  (2) analyzing the current military balance in the region, including the
  effect on the balance of transfers documented under paragraph (1);
  (3) assessing the current and projected military threat to allied and
  friendly nations in the Middle East and the military equipment needed to
  deter and defend against any such current or projected threat;
  (4) describing the operation of any agreements comprising the arms supplier
  regime envisaged by this Act;
  (5) citing supplier nations that have refused to participate in such a
  regime; and
  (6) identifying the specific actions of supplier nations that have engaged
  in conduct that violates or undermines the regime.
SEC. 647. LIMITATIONS ON UNITED STATES ARMS SALES.
  Beginning 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, no sale of any
  defense article or defense service may be made to any nation in the Middle
  East, and no license for the export to any nation in the Middle East of
  any defense article or defense service may be issued, unless and until
  the President--
  (1) certifies in writing that the Secretary of State has undertaken good
  faith efforts to convene the conference for the establishment of an arms
  suppliers regime, as described in sections 643 and 644; and
  (2) submits to Congress the report referred to in section 646(a).
SEC. 648. POLICY TOWARD FRIENDLY COUNTRIES.
  In the operation of any arms suppliers regime governing transfers of
  conventional and unconventional weapons to nations of the Middle East,
  it shall be the policy of the United States, as a principal participant in
  such regime, to accord the highest priority to insuring that any limitation
  or control--
  (1) is consistent with, and does not have the effect of terminating, United
  States defense cooperation with friendly countries in the Middle East; and
  (2) yields the overall effect of enhancing the security of such friendly
  countries.
SEC. 649. APPLICATION OF REGIME TO OTHER REGIONS.
  As appropriate, the United States should seek to expand the geographical
  scope of any arms supplier regime to include other regions of the world.
SEC. 650. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act--
  (1) the term `advanced conventional arms' includes modern heavy tanks and
  artillery, air-to-air missiles, air-to-surface missiles, surface-to-surface
  missiles, cruise missiles, anti-satellite weapons, high-performance jet
  aircraft, stealth technologies, naval combatant vessels, and related
  military technologies;
  (2) the term `CFE Treaty' means the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces
  in Europe, signed at Paris on November 19, 1990;
  (3) the term `defense article' and the term `defense service' have the
  meanings given to each such term by paragraph (3) and (4), respectively,
  of section 47 of the Arms Export Control Act;
  (4) the term `Enhanced Proliferation Control Initiative' or `EPCI' means the
  initiative of the Executive branch of Government with respect to controls
  on dual-use commodities with potential application to the proliferation
  of missiles and nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons, as set forth
  in Executive Order No. 12735 of March 7, 1991;
  (5) the term `INF Treaty' means the Treaty Between the United States of
  America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Elimination of
  their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, done at Washington
  on December 8, 1987;
  (6) the term `Middle East' means the region which consists of the following
  nations: Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait,
  Libya, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, the United Arab
  Emirates, and Yemen;
  (7) the term `Missile Technology Control Regime' or `MTCR' means the
  agreement, as amended, between the United States, the United Kingdom, the
  Federal Republic of Germany, France, Italy, Canada, and Japan, announced
  on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile-relevant transfers based
  on an annex of missile equipment and technology; and
  (8) the term `supplier nation' means any nation that transfers or
  has transferred, as the context may require, unconventional (including
  ballistic missiles, chemical and biological weapons, and nuclear weapons)
  or advanced conventional arms to nations in the Middle East.
Subchapter B--Miscellaneous
SEC. 651. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
  Of the amounts made available to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993 should be used to finance the Cooperative Development Program
  among the United States, Israel, and developing countries.
SEC. 652. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH.
  Of the amounts made available to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961, $2,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993
  should be used to finance cooperative development research projects among
  the United States, Israel, and developing countries.
SEC. 653. COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AMONG THE UNITED STATES, ISRAEL
AND EASTERN EUROPE.
  Of the amounts made available to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993 should be used to finance cooperative development projects among
  the United States, Israel and Eastern Europe.
SEC. 654. RESTRICTIONS AND REPORTS WITH REGARD TO SYRIA.
  (a) RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE- United States assistance (as defined in
  section 481(i) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961) may not be provided
  to Syria until the President determines, and so reports to the appropriate
  congressional committees, that--
  (1) the Government of Syria has demonstrated its willingness to enter into
  direct bilateral negotiations with the State of Israel;
  (2) the Government of Syria--
  (A) does not deny its citizens, or any segment of its citizens, the right
  or opportunity to emigrate,
  (B) does not impose any tax on emigration or on the visas or other documents
  required for emigration, for any purpose or cause whatsoever, and
  (C) does not impose any tax, levy, fine, or other charge (other than a
  nominal fee for administrative expenses) on any citizen as a consequence of
  the desire of such citizen to emigrate to the country of his or her choice;
  (3) the Government of Syria is assisting the United States Government in
  obtaining the release of American hostages seized in Lebanon;
  (4) the Government of Syria no longer supports groups responsible for acts
  of international terrorism and no longer provides safe haven for terrorists;
  (5) the Government of Syria is withdrawing its armed forces from Lebanon;
  (6) the Government of Syria is no longer acquiring chemical, biological,
  or nuclear weapons, and the President has received credible assurances that
  any such weapons now in the Syrian arsenal will not be used to threaten
  Syria's neighbors;
  (7) the Government of Syria is fully cooperating with United States
  anti-narcotics efforts and is taking steps to remove those members of the
  Syrian Government who are involved in the drug trade; and
  (8) the Government of Syria has made progress in improving its record of
  respect for internationally recognized human rights.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Six months after a report is submitted pursuant to
  subsection (a), the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional
  committees a report on United States policy towards Syria, with specific
  reference to each of the issues described in paragraphs (1) through (8)
  of subsection (a).
  (c) ANNUAL REPORT ON THIRD COUNTRY ARMS SALES TO SYRIA- Not later than
  March 31 of each year, the President shall submit to the appropriate
  congressional committees a detailed report (which shall be based on all
  relevant information available to the United States Government) on all third
  country transfers of weapons and other military equipment to Syria during
  the previous calendar year. Each such report shall include an analysis of
  the impact of these transfers, especially--
  (1) the cumulative amount and value of these transfers;
  (2) the effect of these transfers on regional stability, security, and
  the balance of power;
  (3) the extent to which these transfers make regional peace or war more
  or less likely;
  (4) the extent to which an actual military need exists for these transfers;
  (5) the extent to which Syria can bear the cost of purchasing, maintaining,
  operating, and securing the new weapons or other military equipment; and
  (6) the effect on Israel's qualitative edge in the region, and the amount
  and type of military or economic assistance that would be required to
  compensate for any loss in Israel's qualitative edge.
  (d) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES- As used in this section, the term
  `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on Foreign
  Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 655. ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN PEOPLE-TO-PEOPLE ACTIVITIES.
  It is the sense of the Congress that, in order to promote better
  understanding and mutual respect between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples,
  the United States should support educational, cultural, and humanitarian
  activities that bring Israelis together with Palestinians living in the
  West Bank and Gaza.
SEC. 656. POLICY CONCERNING STATE OF BELLIGERENCY TOWARD ISRAEL BY ARAB STATES.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) The State of Israel declared its independence on May 14, 1948.
  (2) The armies of 6 Arab nations: Egypt, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia,
  Lebanon, and Iraq, invaded Israel immediately after its declaration of
  independence with the intention of destroying Israel as a nation.
  (3) Israel has fought additional wars against several Arab nations which
  have continued to seek its elimination and destruction.
  (4) United Nations Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 have addressed
  the Arab-Israeli conflict, calling for a just, lasting, and durable peace
  for all states in the area.
  (5) Israel and Egypt entered into direct negotiations culminating in a
  peace treaty signed on March 26, 1979.
  (6) All other Arab states continue to maintain a state of belligerency
  with Israel, refusing to recognize Israel's right to exist.
  (7) Israel suffered some 39 SCUD missile attacks fired by Iraq during the
  Persian Gulf War.
  (8) The United States was allied with numerous Arab states in the diplomatic
  and military effort to eject Iraq from Kuwait.
  (9) The continued state of belligerency between the Arab states and Israel
  threatens all peoples of the Middle East.
  (b) POLICY- It is the sense of Congress that--
  (1) all Arab nations which have refused to recognize Israel and have
  maintained a state of belligerency with the State of Israel should
  recognize Israel, end the economic boycott against Israel, end the state of
  belligerency with Israel, and enter into direct negotiations with Israel for
  the purpose of concluding peace treaties and establishing full diplomatic
  relations; and
  (2) the United States should use all available means to influence and
  encourage the Arab states which were allied with the United States in the
  Persian Gulf War to achieve the objectives under paragraph (1).
SEC. 657. PEACE AND STABILITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
  (a) EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE PEACE- It is the sense of the Congress that, in the
  aftermath of the Persian Gulf War, the United States should work with its
  Arab coalition partners--
  (1) to encourage their active support for efforts to achieve peace and
  stability in the Middle East and to settle the Arab-Israeli conflict
  through direct negotiations; and
  (2) to take specific steps to--
  (A) recognize Israel's right to exist;
  (B) terminate the economic and diplomatic boycott of Israel;
  (C) cease efforts to expel Israel from international organizations or
  to deny Israel the opportunity to participate in the activities of such
  organizations; and
  (D) terminate assistance to countries or groups that commit or support
  acts of international terrorism.
  (b) REPORTS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICIES-
  (1) REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMISSION- Not later than 3 months after the date
  of enactment of this Act and every 6 months thereafter, the Secretary of
  State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report
  on progress in implementing the policies expressed in subsection (a).
  (2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES- As used in this subsection,
  the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee
  on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on
  Foreign Relations of the Senate.
CHAPTER 5--LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Subchapter A--Provisions Pertaining to Central America and the Caribbean
SEC. 661. MILITARY AIRCRAFT TRANSFERS.
  (a) NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFERS BY THE UNITED STATES- During fiscal years
  1992 and 1993, the appropriate congressional committees shall be notified
  in writing at least 15 days in advance if--
  (1) the authorities of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the
  Arms Export Control Act are to be used to make available to any country
  in Central America and the Caribbean any helicopters or other aircraft
  for military use, or
   (2) licenses are to be issued under section 38 of the Arms Export Control
   Act for the export of any such aircraft to any country in Central America
   and the Caribbean.
  (b) NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFERS BY OTHER COUNTRIES- During fiscal years 1992
  and 1993, the Secretary of State shall promptly notify the appropriate
  congressional committees whenever any helicopters or other aircraft
  for military use are provided to any country in Central America and the
  Caribbean by any foreign country.
SEC. 662. ASSISTANCE FOR GUATEMALA.
  (a) PROHIBITION FOR MILITARY ASSISTANCE- Assistance under chapter 2 of
  part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may not be provided for
  Guatemala for fiscal years 1992 and 1993, except as provided in subsection
  (b) relating to `a firm and lasting peace agreement that would include
  political agreements, implementation of such by the parties, and verification
  terms set by the National Reconciliation Commission, the United Nations,
  and other international organizations to be designated by the parties by
  common agreement' as set forth in the `Accord on the Procedure to Attain
  Peace Through Peaceful Means' agreed to by the parties in Mexico City on
  April 26, 1991, and in fulfillment of the Accord of Oslo of March 30, 1990.
  (b) Fund in Support of Transition to Lasting Peace-
  (1) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established in the Treasury of the
  United States a fund to assist with the costs of implementing provisions
  of a peace agreement reached pursuant to the procedures specified in
  the April 26, 1991, Accord of Mexico and in fulfillment of the Accord of
  Oslo. This fund shall be known as the Lasting Peace Fund for Guatemala
  (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the `Fund').
  (2) TRANSFER OF CERTAIN MILITARY ASSISTANCE FUNDS- For each of fiscal years
  1992 and 1993, the President may transfer to the Fund, from amounts made
  available under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
  such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of paragraph (4).
  (3) CONDITIONS FOR USE OF FUNDS- Amounts in the Fund shall be available for
  obligation and expenditure only upon notification by the President to the
  appropriate congressional committees that the Government of Guatemala and
  representatives of the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG) have
  signed an agreement providing for a `lasting peace agreement' pursuant to
  the April 26, 1991, Accord of Mexico and in fulfillment with the Accord of
  Oslo, or any other subsequent accords reached by the parties to the conflict.
  (4) USE OF FUND- Amounts transferred to the Fund are authorized to be used
  for or shall be available for--
  (A) costs of retraining, relocation, and reemployment in civilian pursuits of
  former combatants and noncombatants affected by the conflict in Guatemala,
  and
  (B) costs of monitoring activities associated with provisions set forth
  in an agreement for lasting peace, pursuant to the Accord of Mexico and
  in fulfillment of the Oslo Accord or other subsequent accords reached by
  the parties to the conflict.
  (c) PROHIBITION RELATING TO MILITARY SALES AND COMMERCIAL SALES- During
  fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the authority of the Arms Export Control Act
  may not be used to sell to the Government of Guatemala and licenses may
  not be issued under section 38 of that Act for the export to Guatemala of--
  (1) any weapons or ammunition; or
  (2) any aircraft, unless those aircraft are unarmed and the Government of
  Guatemala has agreed that those aircraft will not be armed.
  (d) ECONOMIC AND FOOD ASSISTANCE-
  (1) LIMITATIONS- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, development assistance,
  and economic support funds under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and
  assistance under the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of
  1954 that is provided for Guatemala--
  (A) may be provided to and used only by civilian government agencies and
  nongovernmental organizations;
  (B) shall be targeted for assistance--
  (i) for programs that directly address poverty, basic human needs, and
  environmental concerns;
  (ii) to improve the performance of democratic institutions or otherwise
  to promote pluralism;
  (iii) for the National Reconciliation Commission;
  (iv) for fiscal reform and fiscal administration; or
  (v) for programs that promote foreign and domestic trade and investment; and
  (C) may not be used for partisan political purposes or as an instrument
  of counterinsurgency.
  (2) WAIVER- The President may waive subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1)
  if the President reports to the appropriate congressional committees
  that the Government of Guatemala has made significant progress toward
  eliminating human rights violations and in investigating and bringing to
  trial those responsible for major human rights cases, in particular those
  involving Americans.
  (3) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF CERTAIN ASSISTANCE- Funds may be obligated
  for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 pursuant to a waiver under paragraph (2)
  only if the appropriate congressional committees are notified at least
  15 days in advance of such obligation in accordance with the procedures
  applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961.
SEC. 663. ASSISTANCE FOR NICARAGUA.
  During fiscal years 1992 and 1993, assistance under the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961 may not be provided for any member of the Nicaraguan resistance
  who has not disarmed or is not abiding by the terms of the cease-fire
  agreement and the addendums to the Toncontin Agreement signed on April
  19, 1990.
SEC. 664. ASSISTANCE FOR REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS.
  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated to carry out chapter 4 of part
  II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (related to Economic Support Funds)
  for bilateral or regional programs for Central America $25,000,000 may be
  made available for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for assistance to governmental
  and nongovernmental organizations with expertise in refugee matters, such
  as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations
  Development Program, and the OAS to implement programs consistent with the
  goals and purposes of the Concerted Plan of Action in Favor of Central
  American Refugees, Returnees and Displaced Persons, such plan having
  resulted from the International Conference on Central American Refugees
  (CIREFCA) convened in May 1989 as an element of the Esquipulas peace process.
SEC. 665. PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO MEMBERS OF THE SANDINISTA POPULAR ARMY.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds authorized to
  be appropriated by this or any other Act may be used by or made available,
  directly or indirectly, for use by members of the Sandinista Popular Army,
  unless specifically requested and authorized in advance by the President of
  Nicaragua. Such requests shall be provided to the appropriate congressional
  committees within 15 days of receipt and the provision of any such assistance
  shall be subject to the standard reprogramming procedures under section
  634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
Subchapter B--Provisions Pertaining to the Caribbean
SEC. 666. ASSISTANCE FOR HAITI.
  (a) HAITI'S DEMOCRATIC TRANSITION- The Congress congratulates--
  (1) the Haitian people for accomplishing Haiti's first transition to
  democracy;
  (2) President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was elected by the Haitian people
  as their first democratically elected President;
  (3) the Haitian military, which abided by the Haitian Constitution and
  supported the democratic transition; and
  (4) the private voluntary organizations that remained in Haiti under
  difficult circumstances and which will have a significant role to play in
  Haiti's democratic future.
  (b) UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE- It is the sense of the Congress that the
  United States should provide assistance to the Government of Haiti so
  long as it abides by the Haitian Constitution and respects freedom of
  expression and human rights, and should continue to provide assistance
  to Haitian private voluntary organizations, in order to assist Haiti in
  institutionalizing democracy and to promote economic development that will
  benefit the Haitian people.
  (c) AMOUNTS OF ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE- It is the sense of the Congress that,
  for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, the United States should provide
  a total of $100,000,000 in food, development and economic assistance for
  Haiti (under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Agricultural Trade
  Development and Assistance Act of 1954) including $30,000,000 in economic
  support fund assistance and $40,000,000 in development assistance.
  (d) MILITARY ASSISTANCE ONLY THROUGH CIVILIAN AUTHORITIES- No military
  assistance shall be provided to the Haitian military in fiscal years
  1992 and 1993, except for nonlethal military assistance through a
  democratically-elected head of state and pursuant to subsection (e).
  (e) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES- At least 15
  days before obligating any funds under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 for Haiti and at least 15 days before issuing any
  letter of offer to Haiti under the Arms Export Control Act, the President
  shall notify the appropriate Congressional committees in accordance with
  the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section
  634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
SEC. 667. HAITIAN SUGAR CANE HARVESTERS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
  (a) UNITED STATES POLICY- It shall be the policy of the United States to
  encourage the Government of the Dominican Republic to act expeditiously
  and forcefully to improve respect for the internationally recognized human
  rights of Haitian laborers engaged in the sugar cane harvesting industry
  in the Dominican Republic including--
  (1) the enforcement of provisions in the individual work contracts mandated
  by President Balaguer's decree of October 15, 1990, including minimum
  wage requirements, prohibitions on the use of child labor, and guaranteed
  freedom of movement;
  (2) the termination of the deceptive recruitment, and the forcible
  assembly and transportation to sugar cane plantations, of Haitians who
  are at the border between Haiti and the Dominican Republic or are within
  the Dominican Republic;
  (3) actions to ensure that personnel employed by, or under contract with,
  the Government of the Dominican Republic do not carry firearms in the
  ordinary course of transporting or supervising Haitian workers engaged in
  sugar cane harvesting;
  (4) measures to ensure that the military forces and police of the Dominican
  Republic act in strict accordance with Dominican law, and refrain from
  all arbitrary and oppressive conduct, with respect to Haitian workers; and
  (5) implementation of provisions to permit any individual entitled to
  citizenship under the Constitution of the Dominican Republic to obtain a
  birth certificate and any other document needed to remain and work in the
  Dominican Republic.
  (b) SUGAR QUOTA- The President should consider increasing the Dominican
  Republic's annual allocation of the United States sugar quota for each
  of fiscal years 1992 and 1993, and providing additional economic and
  development assistance in such fiscal years that may be available if the
  Government of the Dominican Republic makes significant progress in the
  areas enumerated in subsection (a).
SEC. 668. ASSISTANCE FOR GUYANA.
  (a) RESTRICTION- For fiscal years 1992 and 1993, assistance may be provided
  to the Government of Guyana under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or
  the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 only if
  the President determines and reports to the appropriate congressional
  committees that the Government of Guyana is in power as a result of free
  and fair elections. In making such a determination, the President shall,
  if appropriate, take into account the findings of international observers
  with respect to the elections.
  (b) EXCEPTIONS- Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to--
  (1) international narcotics control assistance under the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961; or
  (2) assistance for the holding of free and fair elections.
  (c) ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE FOLLOWING INSTALLATION OF A DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED
  GOVERNMENT- It is the sense of the Congress that, following submission
  of a report pursuant to subsection (a), the United States should provide
  economic assistance for Guyana under chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of
  part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Agricultural Trade
  Development and Assistance Act of 1954.
  (d) ASSISTANCE FOR BASIC HUMAN NEEDS- Of amounts made available to Guyana
  in fiscal year 1992 and fiscal year 1993 pursuant to the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961 and the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of
  1954, it is the sense of the Congress that $3,000,000 should be used in
  each fiscal year to meet basic human needs in Guyana. Such assistance may
  be provided only through nongovernmental organizations or (if a report is
  made under subsection (a)) through the Government of Guyana.
Subchapter C--Andean Initiative
SEC. 669. ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE FOR THE ANDEAN COUNTRIES.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 2(a) of the International
  Narcotics Control Act of 1990 is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) In addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated,
  there are authorized to be appropriated $300,000,000 for each of fiscal
  years 1992 and 1993 for assistance for Andean countries under chapter 4
  of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and under chapter 1 of
  part I of that Act. In addition to the use of funds pursuant to subsection
  (b), priority in the use of funds authorized to be appropriated by this
  subsection for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 that are allocated
  for Bolivia and Peru shall be given to support programs that focus on
  providing coca farmers with alternative sources of income, including the
  introduction of alternative crops, agricultural research and extension,
  the provision of credit, assistance with land titles, agro-industry,
  micro-enterprise development, and infrastructure development.'.
  (b) ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS- (1) Section 2(b)(1) of that Act
  is amended--
  (A) by inserting `for each fiscal year' after `$16,000,000'; and
  (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `for fiscal year 1991'.
  (2) Section 2(b)(3) of that Act is amended to read as follows:
  `(3) ASSISTANCE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS OFFICES- Up to a total of $2,000,000 of the
  funds used in accordance with paragraph (1) for each of the fiscal years
  1992 and 1993 should be used to provide training, technical assistance,
  and equipment--
  `(A) for the Office of Special Investigations and the Special Prosecutor
  for Human Rights, both of which are within the Office of the Attorney
  General of the Government of Colombia; and
  `(B) for the Office of Human Rights in the Office of the Attorney General
  of the Government of Peru.'.
SEC. 670. MILITARY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE.
  (a) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 3(a) of the International
  Narcotics Control Act of 1990 is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In addition to amounts otherwise
  authorized to be appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated
  $118,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 for assistance for Andean
  countries under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.'.
  (b) LIMITATIONS ON AMOUNTS OF ASSISTANCE- Section 3(e) of that Act is
  amended--
  (1)(A) in paragraph (1) in the first sentence, by striking out `for fiscal
  year 1991' and by inserting `for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993'; and
  (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking `$175,000,000' each time it
  appears and inserting in lieu thereof `$150,000,000 in each fiscal year; and
  (2) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking out `section 23 of the Arms Export
  Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2763)' and inserting in lieu thereof `chapter 2 of
  part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961'.
  (c) PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE FOR PERU'S SINCHI POLICE- Section 3 of that
  Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(h) PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE FOR PERU'S SINCHI POLICE- For purposes of this
  section, Peru's Sinchi Police may not be considered to be a law enforcement
  unit that is organized for the specific purpose of narcotics enforcement,
  nor shall any other Peruvian police organization which is identified as
  having a consistent pattern of gross human rights violations against the
  Peruvian people be so considered.'.
SEC. 671. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR PRESIDENTIAL DETERMINATION.
  Section 4 of the International Narcotics Control Act of 1990 is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a) in the text preceding paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking out `Assistance may' and inserting in lieu thereof `Except
  as provided in subsection (c), assistance may';
  (B) by striking `year 1991' and inserting in lieu thereof `years 1992 and
  1993'; and
  (C) by inserting `, before any such assistance is provided or any such
  defense articles are transferred for that fiscal year,' after `only if'; and
  (2) in subsection (b) by striking out `Not' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Except as provided in subsection (c), not';
  (3) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as subsection (d) through
  (f), respectively; and
  (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
  `(c) EXEMPTION FOR ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS- Subsections (a) and
  (b) do not apply to assistance under section 2(a) for programs that focus
  on providing coca farmers with alternative sources of income, including the
  introduction of alternative crops, agricultural research and extension,
  the provision of credit, assistance with land titles, agro-industry,
  micro-enterprise development, and infrastructure development.'.
SEC. 672. CONDITIONAL WAIVER OF BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT.
  Section 4(e) of the International Narcotics Control Act of 1990, as so
  redesignated by section 671 of this Act, is amended--
  (1) by striking out `year 1991' and inserting in lieu thereof `years 1992
  and 1993'; and
  (2) by striking out `and' the first place it appears and inserting in lieu
  thereof a comma, and by inserting `and the corresponding section of the
  Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
  Acts for fiscal years 1992 and 1993' after `Act, 1991,'.
Subchapter D--South America
SEC. 673. ARGENTINA AND BRAZIL'S COMMON NUCLEAR POLICY.
  (a) RENOUNCING THE PRODUCTION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS- The Congress recognizes
  and congratulates the Governments of Argentina and Brazil for--
  (1) the signing, on November 28, 1990, of a joint Declaration on the
  Common Nuclear Policy of Argentina and Brazil, which bans nuclear weapons
  production and testing;
  (2) creating a bilateral inspection authority to systematize the exchange
  of information and the reciprocal monitoring of all nuclear facilities in
  Argentina and Brazil and their respective central accounting systems;
  (3) undertaking negotiations with the International Atomic Energy Agency
  (IAEA) on comprehensive full-scope safeguard inspections;
  (4) declaring the intention, pending completion of negotiations with the
  IAEA, to initiate actions leading to the full entry into force of the
  Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of
  Tlatelolco); and
  (5) unilaterally undertaking efforts to promote nuclear nonproliferation,
  such as calls for all nations in Latin America and the Caribbean to ban
  all nuclear explosives, including those for peaceful purposes.
  (b) FURTHER PROGRESS URGED- The Congress urges the Governments of Argentina
  and Brazil to continue their progress towards nuclear nonproliferation by--
  (1) meeting the September 1991 deadline agreed upon for completing
  negotiations with the IAEA on full-scope safeguard inspections;
  (2) actively pursuing, pending the conclusion of the Safeguards Agreement
  with the IAEA, the full entry into force of the Treaty of Tlatelolco; and
  (3) increasing controls and limitations on the export of sensitive
  military-related nuclear technologies.
SEC. 674. MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES FOR CHILE.
  During fiscal years 1992 and 1993, military assistance may be provided
  to Chile under chapter 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  and sales may be made to Chile under the Arms Control Export Act provided
  the appropriate congressional committees are notified of the amount and
  nature of the proposed assistance or sale (as the case may be) at least 15
  days in advance in accordance with procedures applicable to reprogramming
  notifications under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
Subchapter E--Other Provisions Pertaining to the Region
SEC. 675. SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS AGAINST THE SPREAD OF CHOLERA.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) in recognition that the cholera epidemic that originated in Peru is
  rapidly spreading throughout Latin America, and that some cases have been
  confirmed in the United States;
  (2) by the first week of May, Peru had reported 175,780 probable cases of
  cholera, with 1,288 deaths;
  (3) worldwide, the Americas account for over 90 percent of all cholera
  cases during 1991;
  (4) the poor have been most affected by the disease because of contaminated
  water supplies, poor sewage systems and sanitary conditions, and inadequate
  health services; and
  (5) unless strong measures are taken to improve this situation, according to
  the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), as many as six million cases,
  resulting in 40,000 deaths, could occur if the epidemic spreads throughout
  Latin America and the Caribbean.
  (b) AMOUNT OF ASSISTANCE- The Congress recognizes that prompt United
  States assistance is necessary to alleviate the human suffering arising
  from the cholera epidemic in six countries in Latin America and to prevent
  and control its spread to other countries in the region. Accordingly,
  in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purpose, for each of
  the fiscal years 1992 and 1993, $25,000,000 of the funds authorized to
  be appropriated under chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961 for the narcotics related economic assistance under the Andean
  Counterdrug Initiative in each fiscal year may be made available for
  remedial efforts to deal with this epidemic.
  (c) USE OF FUNDS- Such funds shall be utilized to provide assistance--
  (1) directly through national and municipal agencies responsible for health,
  water and sanitation services;
  (2) through the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), UNICEF, and other
  international and nongovernmental organizations;
  (3) for emergency medical needs, such as the purchase of oral rehydration
  salts, antibiotics and intravenous fluids;
  (4) to the appropriate authorities for epidemiological surveillance,
  environmental health actions, laboratory support, food safety and public
  education materials, and operational expenses; and
  (5) to improve the health and infrastructure systems in order to prevent
  another epidemic once this one is brought under control.
SEC. 676. ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Assistance under this section shall be provided for
  countries in Latin America and the Caribbean with democratically elected
  governments to--
  (1) promote respect for the rule of law and internationally recognized
  human rights by all elements of society;
  (2) improve the professionalism and effectiveness of law enforcement
  agencies based upon the traditional role of civilian law enforcement
  agencies within a democratic system;
  (3) improve the capacity of law enforcement officials and the courts to
  render independent, fair, timely, and accessible justice and to punish
  all who abuse human life and dignity; and
  (4) enhance the interaction among courts, prosecutors, and police in the
  investigation of crimes.
  (b) TYPES OF ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED- Funds made available to carry out
  section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be available for
  countries in Latin America and the Caribbean that have a democratically
  elected government to support programs and activities, without regard to
  section 660 of that Act, that--
  (1) enhance professional capabilities to carry out investigative and
  forensic functions conducted under judicial and prosecutorial control;
  (2) assist in the development of academic instruction and curricula for
  training law enforcement personnel;
  (3) improve the administrative and management capabilities of law enforcement
  agencies, especially their capabilities relating to career development,
  personnel evaluation, and internal discipline procedures;
  (4) improve penal institutions and the rehabilitation of offenders; and
  (5) enhance protection of participants in judicial cases.
  (c) ASSISTANCE SUBJECT TO NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT- Assistance under this
  section may be provided only if at least 15 days before each obligation of
  funds the President notifies the appropriate congressional committees in
  accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
  under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
  (d) PROHIBITION ON LETHAL EQUIPMENT- Funds made available to carry out
  this section may not be used to provide any lethal equipment.
  (e) PROHIBITION ON DOD PARTICIPATION- Personnel of the Department of Defense
  and members of the United States Armed Forces may not participate in the
  provision of training under this section.
  (f) LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING FOR THE CARIBBEAN- Training for the police
  or other law enforcement personnel of a country in the Caribbean may be
  provided under section 534(b)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 only
  by the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program of
  the Department of Justice. This subsection does not apply with respect to
  training provided under section chapter 8 of part I of the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961 (relating to international narcotics control assistance).
  (g) AMOUNTS AVAILABLE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING- Of the funds made
  available to carry out section 534 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961--
  (1) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 may be made available
  to carry out this section; and
  (2) it is the sense of Congress that $2,500,000 should be made available in
  each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out this section with respect
  to countries in the Caribbean.
  (h) EXPIRATION- The authority of this section shall expire on September
  30, 1993.
SEC. 677. STRENGTHENING CIVILIAN CONTROL OVER THE MILITARY.
  Chapter 1 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
  `SEC. 620F. STRENGTHENING CIVILIAN CONTROL OVER THE MILITARY IN LATIN
  AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN-
  `(a) REQUIREMENT FOR CIVILIAN APPROVAL OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES-
  In order to strengthen the control of democratically elected civilian
  governments over the armed forces, military assistance and sales may be
  delivered to the armed forces of any country in Latin America and the
  Caribbean having such a civilian government only with the prior approval
  of that country's head of government.
  `(b) DEFINITION OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE AND SALES- For purposes of this
  section, the term `military assistance and sales' means--
  `(1) assistance under chapter 2 of part II of this Act, including
  deliveries under the special drawdown authority of section 506 of this
  Act and deliveries of excess defense articles under section 517 of this Act;
  `(2) international military education and training under chapter 5 of part
  II of this Act; and
  `(3) sales and guarantees under the Arms Export Control Act.'.
Subchapter F--Miscellaneous Provisions
SEC. 678. INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- The first sentence of section 401(s)(2)
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969 is amended to read as follows:
  `There are authorized to be appropriated $28,800,000 for each of fiscal
  years 1992 and 1993 to carry out the purposes of this section.'.
  (b) BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
  (1) QUALIFICATIONS- Section 401(g) of that Act is amended by adding at the
  end the following: `All individuals appointed to the Board shall possess an
  understanding of and sensitivity to community level development processes. No
  more than 5 members of the Board may be members of any one political party.'.
  (2) TRANSITION RULE- The requirements established by the amendment made
  by paragraph (1) do not affect appointments made to the Board of the
  Inter-American Foundation before the date of enactment of this Act.
  (c) PRINCIPAL OFFICE- Section 401(q) of that Act is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(q) The Foundation shall maintain its principal office in the metropolitan
  Washington, District of Columbia, area. The Foundation may establish
  agencies, branch offices, or other offices in any place or places outside
  the United States in which the Foundation may carry on any of its operations
  and business.'.
  (d) EXPENSES FOR MEETINGS AND PRINTING- Section 401 of that Act is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
  `(v) Funds made available to the Foundation may be used for the expenses
  described in section 1345 of title 31 of the United States Code (relating
  to travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses for meetings).
  `(w) Funds made available to the Foundation may be used for printing
  and binding.'.
SEC. 679. HUMAN RIGHTS IN CUBA.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Senate finds the following:
  (1) On March 6, 1991, the United Nations Human Rights Commission passed a
  resolution, 22 to 6 with 15 abstentions, to name a special representative
  to monitor the human rights situation in Cuba.
  (2) The resolution mandates the special representative to `maintain direct
  contact with the Government and citizens of Cuba' and to report the results
  to the Commission in 1992.
  (3) The Cuban Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Commission
  Raul Roa stated that Cuba would not accept `a single letter or comma'
  of the resolution.
  (4) The continuation of widespread human rights abuses by the Government
  of Cuba continues to be of great concern to the people of the United States.
  (b) SENSE OF THE SENATE- It is the sense of the Senate that--
  (1) the Senate applauds the actions of the United Nations Human Rights
  Commission of March 6, 1991; and
  (2) the Senate calls on the Government of Cuba to cooperate fully with
  the special representative of the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
SEC. 680. INCLUSION OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES IN ANNUAL HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT.
  Section 116(d) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by striking out `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
  (3) by inserting the following new paragraph:
  `(3) the treatment and status of indigenous peoples in Latin America and
  the Caribbean; and'.
CHAPTER 6--AFRICA
SEC. 681. DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA.
  Section 497 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by striking
  `Funds' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `There are authorized
  to be appropriated to carry out this chapter $800,000,000 for each of
  fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Funds'.
SEC. 682. SOUTHERN AFRICA DEVELOPMENT COORDINATION CONFERENCE (SADCC).
  It is the sense of the Congress that of the funds authorized to be
  appropriated under chapter 10 of part I, $75,000,000 for each fiscal year
  should be made available to assist sector projects described in section
  496(o) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that are supported by the
  Southern Africa Coordinating Conference (SADCC).
SEC. 683. AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION.
  Section 510 of title V of the International Security and Development
  Cooperation Act of 1980 is amended by striking `$3,872,000 for fiscal
  year 1986, and $3,872,000 for fiscal year 1987' in the first sentence,
  and inserting in lieu thereof $14,950,000 for each of fiscal years 1992
  and 1993'.
SEC. 684. ASSISTANCE FOR SUDAN.
  (a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It shall be the policy of the United States with
  respect to Sudan to--
  (1) urge the Government of Sudan and the Sudanese People's Liberation Army
  to adopt at least a temporary cessation of hostilities in order to assure
  the delivery of emergency relief to civilians in affected areas;
  (2) encourage active participation of the entire international community
  to meet the emergency relief needs of Sudan; and
  (3) take steps to achieve a permanent peace.
  (b) PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN- For fiscal years
  1992 and 1993 assistance may be provided to the Government of Sudan under
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 only if the President determines and
  reports to Congress that the Government of Sudan has--
  (1) taken actions to begin the implementation of a process of national
  reconciliation; and
  (2) demonstrated a commitment to hold free and fair elections that are
  monitored by international observers.
SEC. 685. ASSISTANCE FOR KENYA.
  (a) RESTRICTION ON ASSISTANCE TO THE GOVERNMENT- For fiscal years 1992
  and 1993 assistance described in subsection (b) may be provided to the
  Government of Kenya only if the President determines and reports to Congress
  that the Government of Kenya has taken steps to--
  (1) release political detainees and end the prosecution of individuals
  for the expression of their political beliefs;
  (2) cease any physical abuse or mistreatment of political prisoners;
  (3) restore judicial independence; and
  (4) restore freedom of expression.
  (b) ASSISTANCE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTION- The assistance subject to the
  restriction described in subsection (a) is assistance under the authority
  of the following provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:
  (1) Chapter 2 of part II (relating to the furnishing of military assistance);
  and
  (2) Chapter 4 of part II (relating to the economic support fund).
SEC. 686. ASSISTANCE FOR ZAIRE.
  (a) RESTRICTION ON ASSISTANCE TO THE GOVERNMENT- For fiscal years 1992 and
  1993 assistance described in subsection (b) may be provided to the Government
  of Zaire only if the President determines and reports to Congress that--
  (1) a neutral, transitional government has been formed to oversee the
  drafting of a new constitution for Zaire;
  (2) competitive free and fair elections are held in Zaire; and
  (3) the elected government demonstrates a commitment to bring about freedom
  of expression for the people of Zaire, a reformed and independent judiciary,
  and reform of, and application of the rule of law to, Zaire security forces.
  (b) ASSISTANCE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTION- The assistance subject to the
  restriction described in subsection (a) is assistance under the authority
  of the following provisions of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961:
  (1) Chapter 2 of part II (relating to the furnishing of military assistance).
  (2) Chapter 4 of part II (relating to the economic support fund).
  (3) Chapter 5 of part II (relating to the furnishing of military education
  and training).
  (c) RESTRICTION ON DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE FOR ZAIRE- (1) Subject to paragraph
  (2), no development assistance may be provided to the Government of Zaire
  during each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993.
  (2) The prohibition referred to in paragraph (1) does not apply to the
  provision of assistance to nongovernmental organizations that--
  (A) receive assistance referred to in paragraph (1); or
  (B) provide such assistance to appropriate ministries and departments of
  the Government of Zaire.
SEC. 687. ASSISTANCE FOR LIBERIA.
  (a) STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING ASSISTANCE FOR LIBERIA- It is the policy
  of the United States to continue to commit increased diplomatic resources
  for the purposes of resolving the fundamental political conflicts that
  underlie the protracted humanitarian emergency in Liberia.
  (b) SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES- It is the sense of
  the Senate that the President should continue to support the peacekeeping
  efforts in Liberia being carried out by the Economic Community of West
  Africa Monitoring Group.
  (c) INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE FOR LIBERIA- Chapter 9 of part I
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by adding at the end the
  following new section:
  `SEC. 495L. LIBERIAN CIVIL STRIFE ASSISTANCE-
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The President is authorized to provide assistance for
  civil strife relief, rehabilitation, and general recovery in Liberia. In
  providing such assistance, priority shall be given to activities that--
  `(1) coordinate and enhance the efforts of United States, Liberia,
  and international private voluntary organizations to provide relief,
  rehabilitation, and recovery projects in Liberia;
  `(2) assist in the restoration of services in Liberia that provide water
  and power;
  `(3) encourage and facilitate the provision of health care, including
  activities relating to the provision of primary health care;
  `(4) encourage and facilitate the restoration of educational services,
  including activities relating to the provision of educational services to
  displaced children; and
  `(5) contribute to efforts by the international community to respond to
  the relief and development needs of the people of Liberia.
  `(b) HUMANITARIAN PURPOSES- Assistance provided under this section shall
  be for humanitarian purposes.
  `(c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Funds made available for the purposes of this
  chapter may be used to carry out the purposes of this section.'.
  (d) RESTRICTIONS ON ASSISTANCE TO LIBERIA- For fiscal years 1992 and
  1993, assistance may be provided to the Government of Liberia only if the
  President determines and reports to Congress that the Government of Liberia
  has achieved substantial progress toward reconciliation and toward free and
  fair elections that are monitored by international observers. This subsection
  shall not be construed to affect the provision of humanitarian assistance.
SEC. 688. STRENGTHENING JUDICIAL INSTITUTIONS IN AFRICA.
  Chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  inserting at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 538. JUDICIAL INSTITUTIONS IN AFRICA.
  `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  `(1) most African countries lack strong, independent, and stable judicial
  institutions; and
  `(2) strengthening judicial institutions is a fundamental part of increasing
  political stability and promoting sustainable, long-term economic development
  in Africa.
  `(b) POLICY- It is the sense of the Congress that the United States should
  strongly encourage and support efforts to strengthen the independence,
  effectiveness, and stability of judicial institutions in Africa.
  `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE- The President is authorized to furnish
  assistance under this chapter and under chapter 10 of part I of this Act to
  countries and organizations, including national and regional institutions,
  in order to strengthen judicial institutions in countries in Africa.
  `(d) SCOPE OF ASSISTANCE- Assistance under this section should include--
  `(1) support for specialized professional training, scholarships, and
  exchanges for basic and continuing legal education;
  `(2) programs to enhance the administration of the courts and to develop
  judicial capabilities;
  `(3) strengthening professional organizations in order to promote services
  to members and the role of the bar in judicial selections, enforcement of
  ethical standards, and legal reforms;
  `(4) increasing the availability of legal material and publications;
  `(5) training and educational programs to improve the administration of
  justice and to strengthen respect for the rule of law and internationally
  recognized human rights; and
  `(6) revision and modernization of legal codes and procedures.'.
SEC. 689. STUDY ON THE IMPACT OF ADJUSTMENT SUPPORTED PROGRAMS ON THE
DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR AFRICA.
  There is concern that programs related to Structural Adjustment Programs
  may have retarded progress toward the achievement of goals established by
  Congress in the Development Fund for Africa. It is the sense of the Senate
  that a detailed study should be undertaken by the Office of Technology
  Assessment (OTA), in a cross-section of sub-Saharan African countries,
  of the process of formulation and the economic, social, and environmental
  impact of the programs of adjustment supported or leveraged by the Agency
  for International Development through the Development Fund for Africa.
TITLE VII--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Enterprise for the Americas Act of 1991'.
CHAPTER 1--STATEMENT OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE
SEC. 711. STATEMENT OF FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  (a) It is the policy of the United States to promote economic integration
  and unification of nations of the Western Hemisphere and the consolidation
  of democratic institutions throughout the region.
  (b) The Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, set forth by President
  Bush on June 27, 1990, has as its principle elements--
  (1) the promotion of free and fair trade among all the nations in the
  hemisphere with the ultimate goal of achieving a common market for the
  Americas in the 21st century;
  (2) the fostering of increases in investment flows through encouragement
  of and support for fundamental investment reforms; and
  (3) the amelioration of the external debt burden confronting many of the
  countries throughout the hemisphere.
  (c) Such elements are clearly consistent with and supportive of the long
  term United States policy objectives with respect to the Hemisphere and,
  therefore, it shall be the principal purpose of this Act to fully implement
  the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative in a manner that is consistent
  with the achievement of United States policy goals.
CHAPTER 2--PROGRAMS TO FACILITATE INVESTMENT FLOWS
SEC. 721. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) restrictive investment regimes in Latin America and the Caribbean
  have hampered efforts to attract capital and have served to discourage
  the repatriation of flight capital;
  (2) external assistance, including policy guidance, loans and technical
  assistance may be critical to the success or failure of individual
  governments' efforts to implement programs to liberalize domestic investment
  regimes; and
  (3) particular attention should be given to ameliorating any adverse effects
  that investment reform programs may have on the poorest segments of society,
  particularly women, children and indigenous peoples.
SEC. 722. ROLE OF INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (HEREAFTER REFERRED TO AS
THE `IDB') AND OTHER PROGRAMS IN FOSTERING INVESTMENT REFORM.
  (a) The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Administrator
  for the Agency for International Development, the Secretary of State
  and the United States Trade Representative, shall work closely with the
  management of the IDB to ensure the full implementation of the Bank's
  proposed investment sector reform program and the coordination of United
  States bilateral assistance programs with such multilateral efforts to
  enhance the likelihood of full implementation of liberalization efforts
  by countries in the region.
  (b) Within 6 months from the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
  of the Treasury, after consultation with the Administrator for the Agency
  for International Development, the Secretary of State and the United States
  Trade Representative shall transmit a written report to the Speaker of the
  House of Representatives and the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations
  Committee describing the specifics of the investment sector reform programs
  that are being carried out by the IDB. Such report shall include--
  (1) a detailed description of the elements of the investment sector
  reform program;
  (2) the percentage of the IDB's annual lending program which will be
  utilized in conjunction with any investment reform efforts;
  (3) a list of the countries that have entered into investment sector reform
  programs with the Bank, or are in the process of negotiating such programs;
  (4) an analysis of how United States bilateral programs have complemented
  investment reform efforts; and
  (5) a description of measures taken by the IDB, the United States, and the
  recipient country to ensure that any negative effects of such reform efforts
  are not borne disproportionately by the poorest segments of such countries.
SEC. 723. ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INVESTMENT FUND.
  (a) Chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (relating
  to the Economic Support Fund) is amended by adding the following new section:
  `SEC. 539. ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INVESTMENT FUND-
  `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are hereby authorized to be
  appropriated to the Secretary of the Treasury $100,000,000 for each of
  the fiscal years 1992 through 1996 solely to carry out the purposes of
  this section. Such funds shall remain available until expended.
  `(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- The Secretary of Treasury is hereby authorized
  to contribute and to make payment of up to $500,000,000 of funds authorized
  in subsection (a), to the Enterprise for the Americas Fund (hereinafter the
  `Fund') which shall be administered by the IDB, provided that the following
  conditions have been met--
  `(1) an agreement establishing the `Enterprise for the Americas Fund' has
  been negotiated and signed between the United States Government and the
  President of the IDB, specifying the terms and conditions under which the
  United States shall provide monies to the Fund and the terms and conditions
  under which the IDB will disburse monies from the Fund;
  `(2) at least two additional donors have also entered into the agreement
  referred to in subparagraph (1) and have pledged contributions which in the
  aggregate total not less than $500,000,000 as their donations to the Fund;
  `(3) at least 15 days prior to the transfer of monies to the Fund,
  the Secretary of Treasury has transmitted the agreement establishing the
  Fund at the IDB to the Speaker of the House and the Chairman of the Senate
  Committee on Foreign Relations, which shall be subject to the reprogramming
  procedures established pursuant to section 634A of the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961; and
  `(4) the agreement includes a provision which would require the submission
  of a biannual report to the appropriate congressional committees by the
  IDB on any grants issued pursuant to this program.
  `(c) PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF FUND- In negotiating the terms and conditions of
  the Fund agreement, the Secretary of Treasury shall ensure that United States
  assistance to the Fund shall be disbursed only for the following purposes--
  `(1) technical assistance to eligible countries for the purpose of
  identifying and resolving domestic constraints to investment;
  `(2) assistance in building human capital potential in eligible countries
  including programs related to the relocation and retraining of workers
  displaced by investment reform activities such as the privatization or
  restructuring of public enterprises, as well as for educational grants to
  develop expertise in business related skills necessary for the conduct of
  private sector activities; and
  `(3) assistance to private enterprises in eligible countries in such
  activities as enterprise development, venture capital, preparation of
  investment proposals, and equity support for financial intermediaries to
  fund and assist enterprises in eligible countries.
  `(d) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Notwithstanding subsection (a),
  if the requirements set forth in subsections (b) and (c) have not been
  met within one year from the date of enactment of this Act, any monies
  appropriated to carry out the purposes of this section shall no longer be
  available for obligation or expenditure.'.
CHAPTER 3--ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR BENEFITS
SEC. 731. ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS UNDER PROVISIONS OF THIS ACT.
  (a) REQUIREMENTS- To be eligible to participate in any activities authorized
  by this Act, a country must--
  (1) be a Latin American or Caribbean country;
  (2) have in effect, or be making significant progress toward, policies
  designed to liberalize its investment regime and to undertake other essential
  economic reforms in conjunction with the International Monetary Fund, the
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International
  Development Association, and the Inter-American Development Bank, as
  appropriate;
  (3) otherwise qualify for assistance under provisions of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961, except that for purposes of determining eligibility
  under this section, section 620(q) (and any similar provision of law
  restricting assistance to countries in default on loans to the United
  States) and section 620(r) of such Act and section 321 of the International
  Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975 shall be deemed to be waived.
  (b) RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS- Subject to the
  requirements of subsection (a), the Secretary of State and Secretary of
  Treasury shall make recommendations to the President concerning which
  countries should be designated as eligible to receive benefits under
  this Act.
  (c) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS- Consistent with subsection (a) and mindful
  of recommendations made pursuant to subsection (b), the President shall
  determine whether a country is eligible to receive benefits under this
  Act and shall notify the Congress of his intention to designate a country
  as eligible (hereafter referred to as `eligible country') fifteen days in
  advance of any formal determination. Such designations shall be subject
  to reprogramming provisions of section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act
  of 1961.
CHAPTER 4--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS FACILITY
SEC. 741. ESTABLISHMENT.
  There is hereby established in the Department of the Treasury the Enterprise
  for the Americas Facility (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
  `Facility').
SEC. 742. PURPOSE.
  The purpose of the Facility is to serve as the coordinating mechanism within
  the United States Government for purposes of carrying out provisions of this
  Act related to  the debt reductions, sales, cancellation of loans or assets
  once an eligibility determination has been made pursuant to section 731(c),
  except that any interest payments on the reduced debt designated to be paid
  in the local currency of the recipient country shall be administered by
  the Agency for International Development pursuant to chapter 6 of this title.
CHAPTER 5--DEBT REDUCTION
SEC. 751. REDUCTION OF CERTAIN DEBT.
  (a) AUTHORITY TO REDUCE DEBT-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The President may reduce the amount owed to the United States
  (or any agency of the United States) that is outstanding as of January 1,
  1991, as a result of concessional loans made by the United States (or any
  agency of the United States) pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  (or predecessor foreign economic assistance legislation) to any country
  deemed eligible pursuant to chapter 3 of this title.
  (2) LIMITATION- The authority of this section may be exercised beginning
  in fiscal year 1992 and only in such amounts and to such extent as provided
  for by specific appropriations Acts for fiscal year 1992 or thereafter.
  (3) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS- A reduction of debt pursuant to this
  section shall be deemed to be assistance for purposes of provisions of
  law limiting assistance to a country, except that the authority of this
  section may be exercised notwithstanding section 620(q) (and any similar
  provision of law restricting assistance to countries in default on loans
  to the United States) and section 620(r) of the Foreign Assistance Act of
  1961 and section 321 of the International Development and Food Assistance
  Act of 1975.
  (b) IMPLEMENTATION OF DEBT REDUCTION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Any debt reduction authorized pursuant to subsection (a)
  shall be accomplished at the direction of the Facility by the exchange of
  a new obligation for obligations outstanding as of January 1, 1991.
  (2) EXCHANGE OF OBLIGATIONS- The Facility shall notify the Agency for
  International Development of any agreement entered into with an eligible
  country to exchange a new obligation for outstanding obligations pursuant to
  this section; and at the direction of the Facility, the old obligations shall
  be canceled and a new debt obligation for the country shall be established,
  and the Agency for International Development shall make an adjustment in
  its accounts to reflect the debt reduction.
  (3) LIQUIDATION OF DEBTS- The President is encouraged by the Congress to
  consider undertaking the full liquidation of the outstanding obligations
  to the United States as of January 1, 1991 of a country deemed eligible
  under section 731, if such full liquidation will assist that country in
  making significant progress toward full implementation of its economic
  reform policies.
  (4) CERTAIN ADDITIONAL LOANS PROHIBITED- No government of a country for
  which the United States has reduced any outstanding obligations under this
  section shall be eligible for any loan authorized pursuant to the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 for a period of five years from the date that the
  debt reduction has been initiated.
SEC. 752. REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL.
  (a) CURRENCY OF PAYMENT- In such cases where the full obligation is not
  liquidated, the principal amount of any new obligation issued pursuant to
  section 751(b) shall be repaid in United States dollars.
  (b) DEPOSIT OF PAYMENTS- Principal repayments of new obligations shall be
  deposited in the United States Government account established for principal
  repayments of the obligations for which the new obligations were exchanged.
SEC. 753. INTEREST ON NEW OBLIGATIONS.
  (a) RATE OF INTEREST- New obligations issued by a country pursuant to
  section 751(b) shall bear interest at a concessional rate.
  (b) CURRENCY OF PAYMENT; DEPOSITS- If the eligible country has entered into
  an Enterprise for the Americas Agreement with the Agency for International
  Development under chapter 6 of this title for utilizing interest payments
  to carry out any of the activities set forth in section 762 of this Act
  then interest shall be paid in the local currency of the eligible country
  and deposited in an account specifically established to receive such
  payments and such funds shall then be disbursed from that account only
  in accordance with the terms of such agreement. Such interest shall be
  the property of the eligible country until such time as it is disbursed
  pursuant to chapter 6 of this title. Such local currencies shall only be
  used for purposes as set forth in chapter 6 of this title.
  (c) UNITED STATES DOLLARS- If an eligible country has not entered into
  an Enterprise for the Americas Agreement under chapter 6 of this title,
  interest shall be paid in United States dollars and deposited in the
  United States Government account established for interest payments of the
  obligations for which the new obligations were exchanged.
  (d) INTEREST ALREADY PAID- If an eligible country enters into an Enterprise
  for the Americas Agreement subsequent to the date on which interest first
  became due on the newly issued obligation, any interest already paid on
  such new obligation shall not be redeposited into the Enterprise for the
  Americas Account established pursuant to such agreement.
CHAPTER 6--ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS ACCOUNTS
SEC. 761. ESTABLISHMENT OF, DEPOSITS INTO AND DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE AMERICAS
ACCOUNTS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Each eligible country that enters into an Enterprise
  for the Americas Agreement with the United States shall be required to
  establish an Enterprise for the Americas Account (referred to hereafter in
  this Act as the `Americas Account') to receive payments in local currency
  pursuant to section 753(b).
  (b) DEPOSITS- Local currencies deposited in an Americas Account shall
  be considered assistance for purposes of any provision of law limiting
  assistance to a country, except for provisions specifically waived in
  section 731(a)(3).
  (c) INVESTMENT- Deposits made in an Americas Account shall be invested until
  disbursed. Notwithstanding section 3302(b) of title 31, United States Code,
  any return on such investment may be retained by the Americas Account,
  without deposit in the Treasury of the United States and without further
  appropriations by Congress.
  (d) DISBURSEMENTS- Funds in an Americas Account shall be disbursed only in
  a manner which is consistent with the terms set forth in an Enterprise for
  the Americas Agreement which has been negotiated pursuant to the provisions
  of section 762.
SEC. 762. ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS AGREEMENT.
  (a) AUTHORITY- The President is authorized to enter into an agreement
  (referred to hereafter in this Act as an `Americas Agreement") with any
  country designated as eligible to receive benefits in accordance with
  section 731 of this Act concerning the establishment, operation and use
  of an Americas Account in that country. The Agency for International
  Development shall, in consultation with other United States agencies, as
  appropriate, at the direction of the President, undertake to negotiate an
  Americas Agreement with any eligible country who agrees to enter into such
  negotiations, and shall ensure that the provisions of each such agreement
  is implemented consistent with its terms.
  (b) CONTENTS OF AGREEMENTS- An Americas Agreement with an eligible country
  shall--
  (1) require that country to establish an Americas Account;
  (2) require that country to make interest payments under section 753 into
  an Americas Account;
  (3) require that an executive board be established in accordance with
  the laws of the eligible country as the responsible entity for making
  grants from the Americas Account to eligible grant recipients, with the
  membership of such executive board to be composed of individuals from the
  local community, including individuals chosen from relevant government
  agencies, nongovernmental organizations, academic institutions, with the
  majority of the Board to be from nongovernmental organizations and academic
  institutions, and a United States government employee designated by the
  Agency for International Development who shall serve as the United States
  representative on the Executive Board;
  (4) specify, consistent with subsection (c) of this section, the purposes
  for which the Americas Account may be used;
  (5) contain provisions for the annual submission by the executive board
  to the Agency for International Development, of--
  (A) an action plan that such board intends to undertake during the coming
  year for approval, and
  (B) a detailed report of the activities that have been undertaken with
  resources from the Americas Account during the previous year; and
  (6) contain provisions for the enforcement of the agreement, including
  provisions for--
  (A) annual fiscal audits of the Americas Account by an independent
  auditor, and
  (B) access to books and records associated with operations of the Americas
  Account by the United States General Accounting Office or the Inspector
  General of the Agency for International Development, upon request.
  (c) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES- Grants from an Enterprise for the Americas Account
  shall be used only for the purpose of funding activities--
  (1) undertaken by local nongovernmental organizations in support of child
  health-related activities, particularly programs to broaden the availability
  of child immunization and rehydration services;
  (2) that link the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources
  with local community development; including environmental health protection
  initiatives and activities described in section 463 of chapter 7 of part I
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, Public Law 87-195, as added by the
  Global Environmental Protection Act of 1989, Public Law 101-240, title VII,
  section 711; 103 Stat. 2322;
  (3) in support of community-based primary and secondary education programs;
  and
  (4) in support of alternative development programs that seek to reduce
  dependence upon the production of crops from which narcotic and psychotropic
  drugs are derived.
  (d) GRANT RECIPIENTS- Grants made from an Americas Account shall be made
  only to the following entities proposing to undertake one or more of the
  activities described in subsection (c)--
  (1) nongovernmental organizations in the eligible country;
  (2) other appropriate local or regional entities; and
  (3) in exceptional circumstances, the government of the eligible country.
  (e) REVIEW OF LARGER GRANTS- Once an annual action plan has been reviewed
  by the Agency for International Development, the Executive Board shall have
  the authority to approve any grants without further review by AID unless such
  grant exceeds $100,000, in which case, the government of the eligible country
  or the United States Government may exercise veto authority if such grant
  does not meet the terms and conditions set forth in the Americas Agreement.
SEC. 763. ENCOURAGING OTHER CREDITORS TO UNDERTAKE DEBT REDUCTIONS.
  (a) ENCOURAGING DEBT REDUCTIONS FROM OFFICIAL CREDITORS- The President
  should actively encourage other official creditors of an eligible country
  whose debt is reduced under this Act to provide comparable debt reduction
  to such country.
  (b) ENCOURAGING COMPARABLE ACTIONS BY PRIVATE CREDITORS- The Secretary of
  Treasury should encourage private creditors of eligible countries to explore
  mechanisms for reducing official debts outstanding to private creditors
  to levels that more accurately reflect the market value of such debts.
CHAPTER 7--SALES, REDUCTIONS, OR CANCELLATIONS OF LOANS OR ASSETS
SEC. 771. LOANS OR ASSETS ELIGIBLE FOR SALE, REDUCTION, OR CANCELLATION.
  (a) The President is authorized, in accordance with this chapter to--
  (1) sell to any eligible purchaser any loan or portion thereof of an eligible
  country (as determined pursuant to section 731) or any agency thereof,
  that was made pursuant to the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, as amended;
  (2) sell to any eligible purchaser any asset or portion thereof which is
  acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of its status as a
  guarantor of credits in connection with export sales to an eligible country
  (as determined pursuant to section 731), in accordance with export credit
  guarantee programs authorized pursuant to the Commodity Credit Corporation
  Charter Act, as amended, or section 4(b) of the Food for Peace Act of 1966,
  as amended; and
  (3) upon receipt of payment from an eligible purchaser, reduce or cancel any
  loan or the amount of any asset or portion thereof referenced in paragraphs
  (1) or (2) of this section, provided that any such loan or asset that is
  sold, reduced or cancelled under this section was made or acquired prior
  to January 1, 1991, and such sale, reduction, or cancellation would not
  contravene any term or condition of any prior agreement relating to such
  loan or asset.
  (b) The President is hereby authorized to establish the terms and conditions
  under which an eligible country's loans and assets may be sold, reduced
  or canceled pursuant to this title.
  (c) Any sale made pursuant to this title by the Export-Import Bank of
  the United States or the Commodity Credit Corporation of a loan or asset
  (including interest therein) to an eligible purchaser under section 773
  shall be a transaction not required to be registered pursuant to section 5
  of the Securities Act of 1933. For purposes of the Securities Act of 1933,
  neither the Export Import Bank of the United States nor the Commodity
  Credit Corporation shall be deemed to be an issuer or underwriter with
  respect to subsequent sale or other disposition of such loan or asset
  (including any interest therein) or any security received by an eligible
  purchaser pursuant to any debt-for-education swap, debt-for-equity swap,
  debt-for-child survival swap, debt-for-nature swap, or debt-for-development
  swap provided that such activities are deemed by the Agency for International
  Development to be eligible activities as described in section 762(c).
  (d) The Facility shall notify the Export-Import Bank of the United States
  or the Commodity Credit Corporation of purchasers that the Agency for
  International Development, or other relevant agency designated by the
  President, has determined to be eligible under section 773, and shall
  direct the Export Import Bank of the United States or the Commodity Credit
  Corporation to carry out the sale, reduction or cancellation of a loan or
  asset pursuant to this section. Such agency shall make an adjustment in
  its accounts to reflect the sale, reduction, or cancellation.
  (e) The authorities of this section may be exercised beginning in fiscal
  year 1992 and only in such amounts and to such extent as provided for by
  specific appropriations Acts for fiscal year 1992 or thereafter.
SEC. 772. DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS.
  The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or cancellation of any loan or asset
  sold, reduced, or cancelled pursuant to this title shall be deposited in
  the United States Government account(s) established for the repayment of
  such loan or asset.
SEC. 773. ELIGIBLE PURCHASER.
  A loan or asset may be sold pursuant to this title only to a purchaser who
  presents plans satisfactory to the Agency for International Development
  for using such loan or asset for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-child
  survival swaps, debt-for-development swaps, debt-for-education swaps,
  debt-for-equity swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps. A loan or asset may be
  sold, reduced or cancelled pursuant to this title only for the purpose of
  facilitating such swaps.
SEC. 774. DEBTOR CONSULTATION.
  Prior to the sale to any eligible purchaser, or any reduction or cancellation
  pursuant to this title of any loan made to an eligible country, or
  asset acquired as the result of a credit guarantee made in connection
  with export sales to an eligible country, the Agency for International
  Development or other relevant agency designated by the President, should
  consult with the eligible government concerning, among other things, the
  amount of loans or assets to be sold, reduced, or cancelled and their
  uses for debt-for-development swaps, debt-for-child survival swaps,
  debt-for-education swaps, debt-for-equity or debt-for-nature swaps.
CHAPTER 8--INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY FOR THE AMERICAS
SEC. 781. PURPOSE.
  The purpose of this chapter is to promote economic integration and the
  consolidation and strengthening of democratic institutions in the Hemisphere,
  and to commemorate the 500th anniversary of the discovery of the Americas
  by Christopher Columbus through the establishment of an institution of
  higher education, which shall be known as the `International University
  for the Americas'.
SEC. 782. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIVERSITY.
  The Secretary of State, in consultation with other governments in
  the Hemisphere, shall determine the most appropriate location for the
  International University for the Americas. In making that determination
  the Secretary shall ensure that the location chosen is--
  (1) in the Americas;
  (2) is easily accessible to all peoples in the region;
  (3) has demonstrated a commitment to economic integration and democratic
  values though its policies and programs; and
  (4) has expressed an interest in being chosen as a site and has agreed to
  contribute some amount of assistance, either in cash or kind, toward the
  costs of developing the institution.
SEC. 783. FACULTY, STUDENTS AND CURRICULUM.
  In developing the bylaws of the University, the Secretary shall ensure that
  it contains provisions to ensure that faculty and students are drawn from
  all the nations in the hemisphere, and that the curriculum is designed to
  develop expertise in fields that will promote the economic integration of
  the Americas and the consolidation of democracy throughout the Hemisphere.
SEC. 784. FUNDING.
  Of the funds authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of this
  title, $500,000 may be made available to carry out the site location and
  design phase of this title. Such funds shall remain available until expended.
CHAPTER 9--REPORTS
SEC. 791. ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
  (a) Not later than December 31 of each year after the date of enactment
  of this Act, the President shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of
  Representative and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of
  the Senate a report on the implementation of the Act.
  (b) Such report shall include the following:
  (1) the debt reduction and debt swaps undertaken by the Facility during
  the previous fiscal year;
  (2) a description of any Americas Agreements entered into between the
  United States and eligible countries;
  (3) a description of any grants that have been extended by local executive
  boards, pursuant to an Americas Agreement;
  (4) a description of any on-going trade negotiations with a country that
  has otherwise been designated to receive benefits under this Act; and
  (5) a progress report on the selection of a site and design for the
  establishment of the International University for the Americas.
TITLE VIII--REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS
SEC. 801. REPEALS.
  The following provisions of law are repealed:
  (1) Sections 120, 127, 206, 209, 219, 241, 302(b), 302(i), 302(j), 303,
  494, 495B, 495C, 495D, 495E, 495F, 495G, 495I, 505(b), 611, 637, and 663 and
  chapter 3 and chapter 7 of part II, of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
  (2) The Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1986 except for section 1,
  title I, and section 204.
  (3) The International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1985
  except for section 1, section 131, section 132, section 202(c), section
  203(b), section 305, section 502(a), section 504, section 505, part B of
  title V (other than section 558 and section 559), section 803, section 906,
  section 1205, section 1302, and section 1303.
  (4) The Jordan Supplemental Economic Assistance Authorization Act of 1985.
  (5) The African Famine Relief and Recovery Act of 1985.
  (6) The International Security and Development Assistance Authorizations
  Act of 1983.
  (7) The Lebanon Emergency Assistance Act of 1983.
  (8) The International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1981
  except for section 1, section 709, and section 714.
  (9) The International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980
  except for section 1, section 110, section 315, section 408, and title V.
  (10) The International Development Cooperation Act of 1979.
  (11) The International Security Assistance Act of 1979.
  (12) The Special International Security Assistance Act of 1979.
  (13) The International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1978, except
  for section 1, title IV, and section 603(a)(2).
  (14) The International Security Assistance Act of 1978.
  (15) The International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1977 except
  for section 1, section 132(b), and section 133.
  (16) The International Security Assistance Act of 1977.
  (17) The International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of
  1976 except for section 1, section 201(b), section 212(b), section 601,
  and section 608.
  (18) The International Development and Food Assistance Act of 1975.
  (19) The Foreign Assistance Act of 1974.
  (20) The Emergency Security Assistance Act of 1973.
  (21) The Foreign Assistance Act of 1973.
  (22) Section 13 of the Department of State Appropriations Authorization
  Act of 1973.
  (23) The Foreign Assistance Act of 1971.
  (24) The Special Foreign Assistance Act of 1971.
  (25) The Foreign Military Sales Act Amendments, 1971 except for section
  8(d), section 10, section 11, section 12, and section 13.
TITLE IX--MULTILATERAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
CHAPTER 1--INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
SEC. 901. UNITED STATES QUOTA INCREASE AND AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT.
  The Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286 et seq.) is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new sections:
  `SEC. 56. The United States Governor of the Fund is authorized to consent
  to an increase in the quota of the United States in the Fund equivalent
  to 8,608.5 million Special Drawing Rights, limited to such amounts as are
  appropriated in advance in appropriation Acts.
  `SEC. 57. The United States Governor of the Fund is authorized to consent
  to the amendments to the Articles of Agreement of the Fund approved in
  resolution numbered 45-3 of the Board of Governors of the Fund.
  `SEC. 58. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to instruct the United
  States Executive Director of the Fund to vote to approve the Fund's pledge to
  sell, if needed, up to three million ounces of the Fund's gold, to restore
  the resources of the Reserve Account of the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
  Facility Trust (hereinafter the `ESAF Trust') to a level that would be
  sufficient to meet obligations payable to lenders which have made loans
  to the Loan Account of the ESAF Trust that have been used for the purpose
  of financing programs of Fund members previously in arrears to the Fund.'.
CHAPTER 2--AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
SEC. 911. UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTION.
  The African Development Fund Act, 22 U.S.C. 290g et seq., is amended by
  adding at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 216. (a) CONTRIBUTION AUTHORIZED- The United States Governor of the
  Fund is authorized to contribute $405,000,000 to the sixth replenishment of
  the resources of the Fund, except that such authority shall be effective
  only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in
  appropriations Acts.
  `(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- In order to pay for the United
  States contribution provided for in this section, there are authorized to
  be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $405,000,000 for payment
  by the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
CHAPTER 3--ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
SEC. 921. UNITED STATES SUBSCRIPTION TO SPECIAL CAPITAL INCREASE.
  The Asian Development Bank Act (22 U.S.C. 285 et seq.) is amended by adding
  at the end thereof the following new section:
  `SEC. 30. (a)(1) The United States Governor of the Bank is authorized to
  subscribe on behalf of the United States to 35,230 additional shares of
  the capital stock of the Bank.
  `(2) Any subscription to the capital stock of the Bank shall be effective
  only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in
  appropriation Acts.
  `(b) In order to pay for the increase in the United States subscription
  to the Bank provided for in subsection (a), there are authorized to be
  appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $424,997,105 for payment by
  the Secretary of the Treasury.'.
TITLE X--PRESIDENTIAL CONTINGENCY FUND
SEC. 1001. AUTHORITY.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the President, in order to meet
  unanticipated contingencies in programs within the International Affairs
  Budget Function, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to
  remain available until expended. Amounts appropriated under this section
  are authorized to be made available notwithstanding any other provision
  of law, except that any provision of assistance pursuant to this section
  shall be subject to section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
TITLE XI--PEACE CORPS
SEC. 1101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 3(b) of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2502(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking out the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof
  the following: `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the
  purposes of this Act $207,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, to remain available
  until September 30, 1993'; and
  (2) in the second sentence, by striking out `hereunder' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `for a fiscal year prior to fiscal year 1992'.
SEC. 1102. PEACE CORPS FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT- The Peace Corps
  Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 15 the
  following new section:
`FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT
  `SEC. 16. (a)(1) There is established in the Treasury of the United States
  an account to be known as the `Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace Corps,
  Account'. The account shall be used for the purpose of providing funds to
  pay expenses for operations of the Peace Corps outside the United States
  which, as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, exceed the
  amount appropriated for such expenses.
  `(2) Funds in the account may be transferred, upon the certification of
  the Director of the Peace Corps (or the Director's designee) that the
  transfer is necessary for the purpose specified in paragraph (1), to the
  account containing funds appropriated for the expenses of the Peace Corps.
  `(b) Funds transferred under subsection (a) shall be merged with, and be
  available for the same time period, as the appropriation to which they
  are applied. Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the amount of
  funds the Peace Corps may obligate in any fiscal year, such amount shall
  be increased to the extent necessary to reflect fluctuations in exchange
  rates from those used in preparing the budget submission.
  `(c) An obligation of the Peace Corps payable in the currency of a foreign
  country may be recorded as an obligation based upon exchange rates used
  in preparing a budget submission. A change reflecting fluctuations in
  exchange rates may be recorded as a disbursement is made.
  `(d) Funds transferred from the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace Corps,
  Account may be transferred back to that account--
  `(1) if the funds are not needed to pay obligations incurred because
  of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries in the
  appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred; or
  `(2) because of subsequent favorable fluctuations in the rates or because
  other funds are, or become, available to pay such obligations.
  `(e) A transfer back to the account under subsection (d) may not be made
  after the end of the two-fiscal-year period immediately succeeding the
  fiscal year in which the appropriation to which the funds were originally
  transferred is available for obligation.
  `(f)(1) Not later than the end of the two-fiscal-year period immediately
  succeeding the fiscal year for which appropriations for the expenses of
  the Peace Corps have been made available to the Peace Corps, unobligated
  balances of such appropriation provided for a fiscal year may be transferred
  into the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace Corps, Account, to be merged
  with and available for the same period and purposes as that account.
  `(2) The authority of this subsection shall be exercised only to the extent
  that specific amounts are provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
  `(g) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Foreign Currency
  Fluctuations, Peace Corps, Account for each fiscal year such sums as may
  be necessary to maintain a balance of $5,000,000 in such account at the
  beginning of such fiscal year.
  `(h) The Director of the Peace Corps shall submit to the appropriate
  committees of the Congress each year a report on funds transferred under
  this section.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) applies with
  respect to each fiscal year after fiscal year 1991.
SEC. 1103. EVALUATION OF HEALTH-CARE SERVICES PROVIDED TO PEACE CORPS
VOLUNTEERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Before January 1, 1997, the Director of the Peace Corps
  shall contract with an eligible organization or organizations to conduct,
  at separate intervals, a total of three evaluations of the health-care
  needs of the Peace Corps volunteers and the adequacy of the system through
  which the Peace Corps provides health-care services in meeting those needs.
  (b) REQUIREMENTS OF THE EVALUATIONS- Each evaluation shall include an
  assessment of the adequacy of the Peace Corps health-care system--
  (1) to provide diagnostic, treatment, and referral services to meet the
  health-care needs of Peace Corps volunteers, and
  (2) to conduct health examinations of applicants for enrollment as Peace
  Corps volunteers and to provide immunization and dental care preparatory
  to service of applicants for enrollment who have accepted an invitation
  to begin a period of training for service as a Peace Corps volunteer.
  (c) REPORTS TO THE PEACE CORPS- An organization making an evaluation under
  this section shall submit to the Director of the Peace Corps a report
  containing its findings and recommendations not later than December 31,
  1992, December 31, 1994, and December 31, 1996, as the case may be. Each
  report shall include recommendations regarding appropriate standards and
  procedures for ensuring the furnishing of quality medical care and for
  measuring the quality of care provided to Peace Corps volunteers.
  (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 90 days after receipt of a report
  required by subsection (c), the Director of the Peace Corps shall transmit
  the report, together with the Director's comments, to the appropriate
  congressional committees.
  (e) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee
  on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs
  of the House of Representatives; and
  (2) the term `eligible organization' means an independent health-care
  accreditation organization or other independent organization with expertise
  in evaluating health-care systems similar to that of the Peace Corps.
SEC. 1104. REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON EMPLOYMENT-RELATED MATTERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than August 31, 1992, the Director of the Peace
  Corps and the Secretary of Labor, shall jointly submit to the appropriate
  congressional committees a report which describes--
  (1) the information provided by the Peace Corps to its volunteers and to
  applicants for volunteer service in the Peace Corps regarding the benefits
  to and services to which Peace Corps volunteers or trainees may be entitled
  or for which they may be eligible in the event that they sustain injuries
  or become disabled during their service, or their training for service,
  with the Peace Corps;
  (2) the efforts by the Peace Corps and the Department of Labor to coordinate
  the provision of such information to Peace Corps volunteer-applicants and
  volunteers and the processing of claims by Peace Corps volunteers under
  the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA);
  (3) the number of Peace Corps volunteers and volunteer-applicants who
  have filed claims under the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA)
  and the percentage of the claims that have been approved; and
  (4) the timeliness of approvals or denials of claims of Peace Corps
  volunteers and volunteer-applicants under the Federal Employees Compensation
  Act (FECA).
  (b) RECOMMENDATIONS- The report required by subsection (a) shall also
  include such recommendations as the Director of the Peace Corps and the
  Secretary of Labor may determine necessary to facilitate the filing and
  processing of claims by Peace Corps volunteers regarding the benefits
  described in that subsection.
  (c) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `appropriate
  congressional committees' means the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
  Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1105. PEACE CORPS ACT `THIRD GOAL' ACTIVITIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Congress encourages the Director of the Peace Corps,
  in carrying out the third goal of the Peace Corps Act, to continue to
  develop, foster, assist, and implement education-related programs, such
  as the current Peace Corps programs known as `World Wise Schools' and
  `Peace Corps Fellows/USA', which enable current and former volunteers to
  share with primary and secondary school students and communities in the
  United States their volunteer experiences.
  (b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `third goal of the
  Peace Corps Act' means the goal described in section 2(a) of the Peace
  Corps Act of increasing the understanding of other peoples on the part of
  the American people.
TITLE XII--EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 1201. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  Except as otherwise provided in this Act or in any amendment made by this
  Act, this Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on
  October 1, 1991.
S 1435 PCS----2
S 1435 PCS----3
S 1435 PCS----4
S 1435 PCS----5
S 1435 PCS----6
S 1435 PCS----7
S 1435 PCS----8
S 1435 PCS----9
S 1435 PCS----10
S 1435 PCS----11
S 1435 PCS----12
S 1435 PCS----13
S 1435 PCS----14
S 1435 PCS----15