Calendar No. 283
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1711
A BILL
To implement the President's 1989 national drug control strategy.
October 2 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Read twice and ordered placed on the calendar
S 1711 PCS
Calendar No. 283
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 1711
To implement the President's 1989 national drug control strategy.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 2 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 18), 1989
Mr. DOLE introduced the following bill; which was read twice and ordered
placed on the calendar
A BILL
To implement the President's 1989 national drug control strategy.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT RELATING TO JUSTICE ASSISTANCE AND DRUG TESTING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
  of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end of part E
  (42 U.S.C. 3750-3766b) the following:
`DRUG TESTING PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 523. (a) PROGRAM REQUIRED- No funding shall be provided under this
  part, whether by direct grant, cooperative agreement, or assistance in any
  form, to any State or to any political subdivision or instrumentality of
  a State that has not formulated and implemented a drug testing program,
  subject to periodic review by the Attorney General, as specified in the
  regulations described in subsection (b), for targeted classes of arrestees,
  individuals in jails, prisons, and other correctional facilities, and
  persons on conditional or supervised release before or after conviction,
  including probationers, parolees, and persons released on bail.
  `(b) REGULATIONS- The Attorney General shall, not later than six months
  after the enactment of this section, promulgate regulations for drug testing
  programs under this section, which shall be based in part on scientific and
  technical standards determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services
  to ensure reliability and accuracy of drug test results. In addition to
  specifying acceptable methods and procedures for carrying our drug testing,
  the regulations may include guidelines or specifications concerning--
  (1) the classes of persons to be targeted for testing;
  (2) the drugs to be tested for;
  (3) the frequency and duration of testing; and
  (4) the effect of test results in decisions concerning the sentence, the
  conditions to be imposed on release before or after conviction, and the
  granting, continuation, or termination of such release.
  `(c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect with respect to any
  State, subdivisions, or instrumentality receiving or seeking funding under
  this subchapter at a time specified by the Attorney General, but no earlier
  than the promulgation of the regulations required under subsection (b).'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of title I of
  the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et
  seq.) is amended by inserting at the end of the item relating to part E
  the following:
`Sec. 523. Drug testing program.'.t