[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2282 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.2282

                       One Hundred Fifth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
the twenty-seventh day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  eight


                                 An Act


 
      To amend the Arms Export Control Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Agriculture Export Relief Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 2. SANCTIONS EXEMPTIONS.

    (a) Exemption Regarding Food and Other Agricultural Commodity 
Purchases.--Section 102(b)(2)(D) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2799aa-1(b)(2)(D)) is amended as follows:
        (1) In clause (i) by striking ``or'' at the end.
        (2) In clause (ii) by striking the period and inserting ``, 
    or''.
        (3) By inserting after clause (ii) the following new clause:
            ``(iii) to any credit, credit guarantee, or financial 
        assistance provided by the Department of Agriculture to support 
        the purchase of food or other agricultural commodity.''.
    (b) Description of Agricultural Commodities.--Section 102(b)(2)(F) 
of such Act is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting 
``, which includes fertilizer.''.
    (c) Other Exemptions.--Section 102(b)(2)(D)(ii) of such Act is 
further amended by inserting after ``to'' the following: ``medicines, 
medical equipment, and''.
    (d) Application of Amendments.--The amendment made by subsection 
(a)(3) shall apply to any credit, credit guarantee, or other financial 
assistance provided by the Department of Agriculture before, on, or 
after the date of enactment of this Act through September 30, 1999.
    (e) Effect on Existing Sanctions.--Any sanction imposed under 
section 102(b)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act before the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall cease to apply upon that date with respect 
to the items described in the amendments made by subsections (b) and 
(c). In the case of the amendment
made by subsection (a)(3), any sanction imposed under section 102(b)(1) 
of the Arms Export Control Act before the date of the enactment of this 
Act shall not be in effect during the period beginning on that date and 
ending on September 30, 1999, with respect to the activities and items 
described in the amendment.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.