[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2603 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 565
106th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2603

                          [Report No. 106-304]

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes.


Rule___________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 23, 2000

    Mr. Bennett from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2001, and for other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $10,000; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $10,000; Minority Leader of the Senate, $10,000; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $5,000; Minority Whip of the Senate, $5,000; and 
Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $3,000 for 
each Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy 
Committees, $3,000 for each Chairman; in all, $62,000.

    representation allowances for the majority and minority leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $15,000 for each such Leader; in all, $30,000.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $92,321,000, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the below limitations, 
as follows:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $1,785,000.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $453,000.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $2,742,000.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $1,722,000.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $6,917,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,152,000 for each such committee; in all, $2,304,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $590,000.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,171,000 for each such committee; in all, 
$2,342,000.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $288,000.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $14,738,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $34,811,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,292,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $22,337,000.

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $4,046,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,069,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $3,000; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $3,000; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $3,000; in all, $12,000.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted pursuant to section 134(a) of Public Law 601, Seventy-
ninth Congress, as amended, section 112 of Public Law 96-304 and Senate 
Resolution 281, agreed to March 11, 1980, $73,000,000.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $370,000.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$2,077,000.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $71,261,000.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $8,655,000.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$253,203,000.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Section 1. Semiannual Report. (a) In General.--Section 105(a) of 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1965 (2 U.S.C. 104a) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5)(A) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (1) relating 
to the level of detail of statement and itemization, each report by the 
Secretary of the Senate required under such paragraph shall be compiled 
at a summary level for each office of the Senate authorized to obligate 
appropriated funds.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the reporting of 
expenditures relating to personnel compensation, travel and 
transportation of persons, other contractual services, and acquisition 
of assets.
    ``(C) In carrying out this paragraph the Secretary of the Senate 
shall apply the Standard Federal Object Classification of Expenses as 
the Secretary determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date and Application.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amendment 
        made by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
            (2) First report after enactment.--The Secretary of the 
        Senate may elect to compile and submit the report for the 
        semiannual period during which the date of enactment of this 
        section occurs, as if the amendment made by this section had 
        not been enacted.
    Sec. 2. Senate Employee Pay Adjustments. Section 4 of the Federal 
Pay Comparability Act of 1970 (2 U.S.C. 60a-1) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(or section 5304 or 5304a of 
                such title, as applied to employees employed in the pay 
                locality of the Washington, D.C.-Baltimore, Maryland 
                consolidated metropolitan statistical area)'' after 
                ``employees under section 5303 of title 5, United 
                States Code,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``(and, as the case may be, 
                section 5304 or 5304a of such title, as applied to 
                employees employed in the pay locality of the 
                Washington, D.C.-Baltimore, Maryland consolidated 
                metropolitan statistical area)'' after ``the President 
                under such section 5303'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Any percentage used in any statute specifically providing for 
an adjustment in rates of pay in lieu of an adjustment made under 
section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, and, as the case may be, 
section 5304 or 5304a of such title for any calendar year shall be 
treated as the percentage used in an adjustment made under such section 
5303, 5304, or 5304a, as applicable, for purposes of subsection (a).''.
    Sec. 3. (a) Section 6(c) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1999 (2 U.S.C. 121b-1(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and agency contributions'' in paragraph 
        (2)(A), and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Agency contributions for employees of Senate Hair 
        Care Services shall be paid from the appropriations account for 
        `Salaries, Officers and Employees'.''
    (b) This section shall apply to pay periods beginning on or after 
October 1, 2000.
    Sec. 4. (a) There is established in the Treasury of the United 
States a revolving fund to be known as the Senate Health and Fitness 
Facility Revolving Fund (``the revolving fund'').
    (b) The Architect of the Capitol shall deposit in the revolving 
fund--
            (1) any amounts received as dues or other assessments for 
        use of the Senate Health and Fitness Facility, and
            (2) any amounts received from the operation of the Senate 
        waste recycling program.
    (c) Subject to the approval of the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate, amounts in the revolving fund shall be available to the 
Architect of the Capitol, without fiscal year limitation, for payment 
of costs of the Senate Health and Fitness Facility.
    (d) The Architect of the Capitol shall withdraw from the revolving 
fund and deposit in the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous 
receipts all moneys in the revolving fund that the Architect determines 
are in excess of the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of the 
Senate Health and Fitness Facility.
    (e) Subject to the approval of the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate, the Architect of the Capitol may issue 
such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of 
this section.
    Sec. 5. For each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2001), there is authorized an expense allowance 
for the Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees which 
shall not exceed $3,000 each fiscal year for each such Chairman; and 
amounts from such allowance shall be paid to either of such Chairmen 
only as reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by him and upon 
certification and documentation of such expenses, and amounts so paid 
shall not be reported as income and shall not be allowed as a deduction 
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    Sec. 6. (a) The head of the employing office of an employee of the 
Senate may, upon termination of employment of the employee, authorize 
payment of a lump sum for the accrued annual leave of that employee 
if--
            (1) the head of the employing office--
                    (A) has approved a written leave policy authorizing 
                employees to accrue leave and establishing the 
                conditions upon which accrued leave may be paid; and
                    (B) submits written certification to the Financial 
                Clerk of the Senate of the number of days of annual 
                leave accrued by the employee for which payment is to 
                be made under the written leave policy of the employing 
                office; and
            (2) there are sufficient funds to cover the lump sum 
        payment.
    (b)(1) A lump sum payment under this section shall not exceed the 
lesser of--
            (A) twice the monthly rate of pay of the employee; or
            (B) the product of the daily rate of pay of the employee 
        and the number of days of accrued annual leave of the employee.
    (2) The Secretary of the Senate shall determine the rates of pay of 
an employee under paragraph (1) (A) and (B) on the basis of the annual 
rate of pay of the employee in effect on the date of termination of 
employment.
    (c) Any payment under this section shall be paid from the 
appropriation account or fund used to pay the employee.
    (d) If an individual who received a lump sum payment under this 
section is reemployed as an employee of the Senate before the end of 
the period covered by the lump sum payment, the individual shall refund 
an amount equal to the applicable pay covering the period between the 
date of reemployment and the expiration of the lump sum period. Such 
amount shall be deposited to the appropriation account or fund used to 
pay the lump sum payment.
    (e) The Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may 
prescribe regulations to carry out this section.
    (f) In this section, the term--
            (1) ``employee of the Senate'' means any employee whose pay 
        is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, except that the 
        term does not include a member of the Capitol Police or a 
        civilian employee of the Capitol Police; and
            (2) ``head of the employing office'' means any person with 
        the final authority to appoint, hire, discharge, and set the 
        terms, conditions, or privileges of the employment of an 
        individual whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the 
        Senate.
    Sec. 7. (a) Agency contributions for employees whose salaries are 
disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate from the appropriations 
account ``Joint Economic Committee'' under the heading ``JOINT ITEMS'' 
shall be paid from the Senate appropriations account for ``Salaries, 
Officers and Employees''.
    (b) This section shall apply to pay periods beginning on or after 
October 1, 2000.
    Sec. 8. Section 316(b) of Public Law 101-302 (40 U.S.C. 188b-6(b)) 
is amended by striking ``shall'' and inserting ``may''.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

     Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies of 2001

    For all construction expenses, salaries, and other expenses 
associated with conducting the inaugural ceremonies of the President 
and Vice President of the United States, January 20, 2001, in 
accordance with such program as may be adopted by the joint committee 
authorized by Senate Concurrent Resolution 89, agreed to March 2, 2000 
(One Hundred Sixth Congress), and Senate Concurrent Resolution 90, 
agreed to March 2, 2000 (One Hundred Sixth Congress), $1,000,000 to be 
disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate and to remain available until 
September 30, 2001. Funds made available under this heading shall be 
available for payment, on a direct or reimbursable basis, whether 
incurred on, before, or after, October 1, 2000: Provided, That the 
compensation of any employee of the Committee on Rules and 
Administration of the Senate who has been designated to perform service 
for the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies shall 
continue to be paid by the Committee on Rules and Administration, but 
the account from which such staff member is paid may be reimbursed for 
the services of the staff member (including agency contributions when 
appropriate) out of funds made available under this heading.

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,315,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$6,686,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $1,500 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $500 per month each to three medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (3) an 
allowance of $500 per month to one assistant and $400 per month each 
not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (4) $1,159,904 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $1,835,000, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House.

                          Capitol Police Board

                             Capitol Police

                                salaries

    For the Capitol Police Board for salaries of officers, members, and 
employees of the Capitol Police, including overtime, hazardous duty pay 
differential, clothing allowance of not more than $600 each for members 
required to wear civilian attire, and Government contributions for 
health, retirement, Social Security, and other applicable employee 
benefits, $102,700,000, of which $51,350,000 is provided to the 
Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House, and $51,350,000 is 
provided to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, to be 
disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate: Provided, That, of the 
amounts appropriated under this heading, such amounts as may be 
necessary may be transferred between the Sergeant at Arms of the House 
of Representatives and the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
Senate, upon approval of the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

                            general expenses

    For the Capitol Police Board for necessary expenses of the Capitol 
Police, including motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, 
security equipment and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, 
materials, training, medical services, forensic services, stenographic 
services, personal and professional services, the employee assistance 
program, not more than $2,000 for the awards program, postage, 
telephone service, travel advances, relocation of instructor and 
liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, and 
$85 per month for extra services performed for the Capitol Police Board 
by an employee of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives designated by the Chairman of the Board, $6,884,000, to 
be disbursed by the Capitol Police Board or their delegee: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for fiscal year 2001 shall be paid by the Secretary of the 
Treasury from funds available to the Department of the Treasury.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. Amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2001 for the Capitol 
Police Board for the Capitol Police may be transferred between the 
headings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' upon the approval of--
            (1) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives, in the case of amounts transferred from the 
        appropriation provided to the Sergeant at Arms of the House of 
        Representatives under the heading ``salaries'';
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, in the 
        case of amounts transferred from the appropriation provided to 
        the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate under the 
        heading ``salaries''; and
            (3) the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the 
        House of Representatives, in the case of other transfers.
    Sec. 102. Appointment of Certifying Officers of the Capitol Police. 
The Capitol Police Board shall appoint certifying officers to certify 
all vouchers for payment from Capitol Police appropriations and funds.
    Sec. 103. Certifying Officers of the Capitol Police; 
Accountability; Relief by Comptroller General. Each officer or employee 
of the Capitol Police, who has been duly authorized in writing by the 
Capitol Police Board to certify vouchers for payment from 
appropriations and funds, shall (1) be held responsible for the 
existence and correctness of the facts recited in the certificate or 
otherwise stated on the voucher or its supporting papers and for the 
legality of the proposed payment under the appropriation or fund 
involved; (2) be held responsible and accountable for the correctness 
of the computations of certified vouchers; and (3) be held accountable 
for and required to make good to the United States the amount of any 
illegal, improper, or incorrect payment resulting from any false, 
inaccurate, or misleading certificate made by him, as well as for any 
payment prohibited by law or which did not represent a legal obligation 
under the appropriation or fund involved: Provided, That the 
Comptroller General of the United States may, at his discretion, 
relieve such certifying officer or employee of liability for any 
payment otherwise proper whenever he finds (1) that the certification 
was based on official records and that such certifying officer or 
employee did not know, and by reasonable diligence and inquiry could 
not have ascertained, the actual facts, or (2) that the obligation was 
incurred in good faith, that the payment was not contrary to any 
statutory provision specifically prohibiting payments of the character 
involved, and the United States has received value for such payment.
    Sec. 104. Enforcement of Liability of Certifying Officers of the 
Capitol Police. The liability of these certifying officers or employees 
shall be enforced in the same manner and to the same extent as now 
provided by law with respect to enforcement of the liability of 
disbursing and other accountable officers; and they shall have the 
right to apply for and obtain a decision by the Comptroller General on 
any question of law involved in a payment on any vouchers presented to 
them for certification.

           Capitol Guide Service and Special Services Office

    For salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service and Special 
Services Office, $2,371,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the 
Senate: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used to employ 
more than 43 individuals: Provided further, That the Capitol Guide 
Board is authorized, during emergencies, to employ not more than two 
additional individuals for not more than 120 days each, and not more 
than 10 additional individuals for not more than 6 months each, for the 
Capitol Guide Service.

                      Statements of Appropriations

    For the preparation, under the direction of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, of the 
statements for the second session of the One Hundred Sixth Congress, 
showing appropriations made, indefinite appropriations, and contracts 
authorized, together with a chronological history of the regular 
appropriations bills as required by law, $30,000, to be paid to the 
persons designated by the chairmen of such committees to supervise the 
work.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $2,066,000.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-344), including not 
more than $2,500 to be expended on the certification of the Director of 
the Congressional Budget Office in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses, $27,113,000: Provided, That no 
part of such amount may be used for the purchase or hire of a passenger 
motor vehicle.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 105. Beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and 
hereafter, the Congressional Budget Office may use available funds to 
enter into contracts for the procurement of severable services for a 
period that begins in one fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year 
and may enter into multi-year contracts for the acquisition of property 
and services, to the same extent as executive agencies under the 
authority of section 303L and 304B, respectively, of the Federal 
Property and Administrative Services Act (41 U.S.C. 253l and 254c).

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Capitol Buildings and Grounds

                           capitol buildings

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, the Assistant 
Architect of the Capitol, and other personal services, at rates of pay 
provided by law; for surveys and studies in connection with activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol; for all necessary 
expenses for the maintenance, care and operation of the Capitol and 
electrical substations of the Senate and House office buildings under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, including furnishings 
and office equipment, including not more than $1,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; and not to exceed $20,000 for 
attendance, when specifically authorized by the Architect of the 
Capitol, at meetings or conventions in connection with subjects related 
to work under the Architect of the Capitol, $44,191,000, of which 
$4,255,000 shall remain available until expended.

                            capitol grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $5,512,000, of which $225,000 shall remain 
available until expended.

                        senate office buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $63,974,000, of which $21,669,000 shall remain available until 
expended.

                          capitol power plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $39,569,000, of which $523,000 shall remain available 
until expended: Provided, That not more than $4,400,000 of the funds 
credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein provided 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2001.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $73,374,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be used 
to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, or 
preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public General 
Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such publication 
has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (44 U.S.C. 902); printing and binding of 
Government publications authorized by law to be distributed to Members 
of Congress; and printing, binding, and distribution of Government 
publications authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the 
recipient, $73,297,000: Provided, That this appropriation shall not be 
available for paper copies of the permanent edition of the 
Congressional Record for individual Representatives, Resident 
Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 44 U.S.C. 906: Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for 
preceding fiscal years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-
year limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none 
of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code.
    This title may be cited as the ``Congressional Operations 
Appropriations Act, 2001''.

                        TITLE II--OTHER AGENCIES

                             BOTANIC GARDEN

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $3,653,000, of which $150,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Union 
Catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $267,330,000, of which 
not more than $6,500,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 2001, and shall remain available 
until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 
480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2001 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the 
Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from 
collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than the 
$6,850,000: Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$10,398,600 is to remain available until expended for acquisition of 
books, periodicals, newspapers, and all other materials including 
subscriptions for bibliographic services for the Library, including 
$40,000 to be available solely for the purchase, when specifically 
approved by the Librarian, of special and unique materials for 
additions to the collections: Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $2,506,000 is to remain available until expended 
for the acquisition and partial support for implementation of an 
Integrated Library System (ILS): Provided further, That of the total 
amount appropriated, $10,000,000 is to remain available until expended 
for salaries and expenses to carry out the Russian Leadership Program 
enacted on May 21, 1999 (113 STAT. 93 et seq.).

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $38,332,000, of 
which not more than $21,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2001 under 17 U.S.C. 708(d): Provided, That the Copyright 
Office may not obligate or expend any funds derived from collections 
under 17 U.S.C. 708(d), in excess of the amount authorized for 
obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: Provided further, 
That not more than $5,783,000 shall be derived from collections during 
fiscal year 2001 under 17 U.S.C. 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 802(h), and 
1005: Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation 
shall be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than 
$26,783,000: Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the 
amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies: Provided further, 
That not more than $4,250 may be expended, on the certification of the 
Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses for activities of the International Copyright 
Institute and for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $48,711,000, of which 
$14,154,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       Furniture and Furnishings

    For necessary expenses for the purchase, installation, maintenance, 
and repair of furniture, furnishings, office and library equipment, 
$4,892,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 201. Appropriations in this Act available to the Library of 
Congress shall be available, in an amount of not more than $202,300, of 
which $60,500 is for the Congressional Research Service, when 
specifically authorized by the Librarian of Congress, for attendance at 
meetings concerned with the function or activity for which the 
appropriation is made.
    Sec. 202. Appropriated funds received by the Library of Congress 
from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative 
overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other 
agencies under the authority of sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, 
United States Code, shall not be used to employ more than 65 employees 
and may be expended or obligated--
            (1) in the case of a reimbursement, only to such extent or 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts; or
            (2) in the case of an advance payment, only--
                    (A) to pay for such general or administrative 
                overhead costs as are attributable to the work 
                performed for such agency; or
                    (B) to such extent or in such amounts as are 
                provided in appropriations Acts, with respect to any 
                purpose not allowable under subparagraph (A).
    Sec. 203. Of the amounts appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $5,000 may be expended, on the certification of 
the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official representation 
and reception expenses for the incentive awards program.
    Sec. 204. Of the amount appropriated to the Library of Congress in 
this Act, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on the certification 
of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field Offices.
    Sec. 205. (a) For fiscal year 2001, the obligational authority of 
the Library of Congress for the activities described in subsection (b) 
may not exceed $92,845,000.
    (b) The activities referred to in subsection (a) are reimbursable 
and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources other than 
appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    Sec. 206. Section 1 of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize 
acquisition of certain real property for the Library of Congress, and 
for other purposes'', approved December 15, 1997 (2 U.S.C. 141 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Transfer Payment by Architect.--Notwithstanding the 
limitation on reimbursement or transfer of funds under subsection (a) 
of this section, the Architect of the Capitol may, not later than 90 
days after acquisition of the property under this section, transfer 
funds to the entity from which the property was acquired by the 
Architect of the Capitol. Such transfers may not exceed a total of 
$16,500,000.''.
    Sec. 207. The Librarian of Congress may convert to permanent 
positions 84 indefinite, time-limited positions in the National Digital 
Library Program authorized in the Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 1996 for the Library of Congress under the heading, ``Salaries and 
Expenses'' (Public Law 104-53). Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law regarding qualifications and methods of appointment of employees of 
the Library of Congress, the Librarian may fill these permanent 
positions through the non-competitive conversion of the incumbents in 
the ``indefinite-not-to-exceed'' positions to ``permanent'' positions.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

                     structural and mechanical care

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$16,347,000, of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $30,255,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses, including travel expenses of the Depository Library 
Council to the Public Printer, shall not exceed $175,000: Provided 
further, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
Congressional serial sets and other related publications for 1999 and 
2000 to depository and other designated libraries.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    The Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accord with 
the law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund: Provided, That not more than 
$2,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public Printer in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: 
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for the 
hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles: Provided 
further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the 
advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed necessary to 
carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code: Provided 
further, That the revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That the revolving 
fund and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of 
Superintendent of Documents'' and ``salaries and expenses'' together 
may not be available for the full-time equivalent employment of more 
than 3,285 workyears (or such other number of workyears as the Public 
Printer may request, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives): 
Provided further, That activities financed through the revolving fund 
may provide information in any format: Provided further, That the 
revolving fund shall not be used to administer any flexible or 
compressed work schedule which applies to any manager or supervisor in 
a position the grade or level of which is equal to or higher than GS-
15: Provided further, That expenses for attendance at meetings shall 
not exceed $75,000.

                        Administrative Provision

    Sec. 208. (a) Section 1708 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1708. Prices for sales copies of Government information 
              products; resale by dealers; sales agents
    ``(a) Sales prices for Government information products will be 
established by the Public Printer to cover the costs of production, 
dissemination, and other appropriate costs associated with this 
service, including the offering of sales discounts and any other costs 
associated with the Sales Program.
    ``(b) The Superintendent of Documents may prescribe terms and 
conditions under which he authorizes the resale of Government 
information products by book dealers, and he may designate any 
Government officer his agent for the sale of Government information 
products under regulations agreed upon by the Superintendent of 
Documents and the head of the respective department or establishment of 
the Government.''.
    (b) The table of sections for chapter 17, of title 44, United 
States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 1708 
and inserting the following:

``1718. Prices for sales copies of Government information products; 
                            resale by dealers; sales agents.''.

                       GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the General Accounting Office, including 
not more than $7,000 to be expended on the certification of the 
Comptroller General of the United States in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses; temporary or intermittent 
services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent of the annual 
rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 
5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; advance 
payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 of title 
31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable under 
sections 901(5), 901(6), and 901(8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), 4081(6), and 4081(8)); and under regulations 
prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of 
living quarters in foreign countries, $384,867,000: Provided, That not 
more than $1,900,000 of reimbursements received incident to the 
operation of the General Accounting Office building shall be available 
for use in fiscal year 2001: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
section 9105 of title 31, United States Code, hereafter amounts 
reimbursed to the Comptroller General pursuant to that section shall be 
deposited to the appropriation of the General Accounting Office then 
available and remain available until expended, and not more than 
$1,100,000 of such funds shall be available for use in fiscal year 
2001: Provided further, That this appropriation and appropriations for 
administrative expenses of any other department or agency which is a 
member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by the 
respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-Federal 
participants. Payments hereunder to the Forum may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the American Consortium on International 
Public Administration (ACIPA) shall be available to finance an 
appropriate share of ACIPA costs as determined by the ACIPA, including 
any expenses attributable to membership of ACIPA in the International 
Institute of Administrative Sciences.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 209. Senior Level Positions. (a) Subchapter III of chapter 7 
of subtitle I of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after section 732 the following:
``Sec. 732a. Critical positions
    ``The Comptroller General may establish senior-level positions to 
meet critical scientific, technical or professional needs of the Office 
from the positions authorized under sections 731(d), (e)(1), (e)(2), 
and 732(c)(4) of this title. An individual serving in such a position 
shall--
            ``(1) be subject to the laws and regulations applicable to 
        the General Accounting Office Senior Executive Service 
        established under section 733 of this title, with respect to 
        rates of basic pay, performance awards, ranks, carry over of 
        annual leave, benefits, performance appraisals, removal or 
        suspension, and reduction in force;
            ``(2) have the same rights of appeal to the General 
        Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board that are provided to 
        the General Accounting Office Senior Executive Service;
            ``(3) be exempt from the same provisions of law made 
        inapplicable to the General Accounting Office Senior Executive 
        Service under section 733(d) of this title, except for section 
        732(e) of this title;
            ``(4) be entitled to receive a discontinued service 
        retirement under chapter 83 or 84 of title 5 as if a member of 
        the General Accounting Office Senior Executive Service; and
            ``(5) be subject to reassignment by the Comptroller General 
        to any Senior Executive Service position created under section 
        733 of this title as the Comptroller General determines 
        necessary and appropriate.''.
    (b) The table of sections for chapter 7 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 732 
the following:

``732a. Critical positions.''.
    Sec. 210. Reassignment to Senior Level Positions. Section 733(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (6);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) the Comptroller General may reassign a member of the 
        Senior Executive Service to any senior-level position created 
        under section 732a of this title as the Comptroller determines 
        necessary and appropriate; and''.
    Sec. 211. Experts and Consultants. Section 731(e) of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``not more than 3 years'' in paragraph (1) 
        and inserting ``3-year renewable terms''; and
            (2) by striking ``level V'' in paragraph (2) and inserting 
        ``level IV''.
    Sec. 212. Voluntary Early Retirement Authority. Section 732 of 
title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(i)(1) An officer or employee of the General Accounting Office 
who is separated from the service under conditions described in 
paragraph (2) of this subsection after completing 25 years of service 
or after becoming 50 years of age and completing 20 years of service is 
entitled to an annuity in accordance with the provisions of chapter 83 
or 84 of title 5, as applicable.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection applies to an officer or 
employee who--
            ``(A) has been employed continuously by the General 
        Accounting Office for more than 30 days before the date on 
        which the Comptroller General makes the determination required 
        under subparagraph (D);
            ``(B) is serving under an appointment that is not limited 
        by time;
            ``(C) has not received a decision notice of involuntary 
        separation for misconduct or unacceptable performance that is 
        pending decision; and
            ``(D) is separated from the service voluntarily during a 
        period in which the Comptroller General offers the officer or 
        employee an early retirement for the purpose of realigning the 
        agency workforce in order to meet mission needs, correcting 
        skill imbalances, or reducing high-grade, managerial, or 
        supervisory positions.
    ``(3) For purposes of chapters 83 and 84 of title 5 (including for 
purposes of computation of an annuity under such chapters), an officer 
or employee entitled to an annuity under this subsection shall be 
treated as an employee entitled to an annuity under section 8336(d) or 
8414(b) of such title, as applicable.
    ``(4) The Comptroller General shall promulgate regulations to 
implement paragraph (1) that provide for offers of early retirement to 
any individual employee or groups of employees based on skills, 
knowledge, performance, or other similar factors or combination of such 
factors determined by the Comptroller General.
    ``(5) As used in this subsection, the terms `employee' and 
`annuity' shall have the same meaning as defined in chapters 83 and 84 
of title 5, as applicable. The term `officer' shall have the same 
meaning as `employee.'
    ``(6) The Comptroller General may not utilize the authority granted 
under this subsection to grant voluntary early retirements to more than 
10 percent of the workforce of the General Accounting Office in any 
fiscal year.''.
    Sec. 213. Separation Pay. Section 732 of title 31, United States 
Code, as amended by section 212 of this Act, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(j) The Comptroller General may offer separation pay to an 
officer or employee under this subsection subject to such limitations 
or conditions as the Comptroller General may require for purposes of 
realigning the workforce in order to meet mission needs, correcting 
skill imbalances, or reducing high-grade, managerial, or supervisory 
positions. Such separation pay--
            ``(1) shall be paid, at the option of the officer or 
        employee, in a lump sum or equal installment payments;
            ``(2) shall be equal to the lesser of--
                    ``(A) an amount equal to the amount the officer or 
                employee would be entitled to receive under section 
                5595(c) of title 5 if the officer or employee were 
                entitled to payment under such section; or
                    ``(B) $25,000;
            ``(3) shall not be a basis for payment, and shall not be 
        included in the computation, of any other type of Government 
        benefit;
            ``(4) shall not be taken into account for purposes of 
        determining the amount of any severance pay to which an 
        individual may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5 based 
        on any other separation;
            ``(5) shall only be paid to an officer or employee serving 
        under an appointment without time limitation, who has been 
        currently employed for a continuous period of at least 12 
        months, but does not include--
                    ``(A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III 
                of chapter 83 of title 5, chapter 84 of title 5, or 
                another retirement system for employees of the 
                Government; or
                    ``(B) an officer or employee having a disability on 
                the basis of which such officer or employee is or would 
                be eligible for disability retirement under any of the 
                retirement systems referred to in subparagraph (A);
            ``(6) shall terminate, upon reemployment in the Federal 
        Government, during receipt of installment payments;
            ``(7) shall be repaid in its entirety upon reemployment in 
        the Federal Government or working for any agency of the 
        Government through personal services contract within 5 years 
        after the date of the separation on which payment of the 
        separation pay is based, except that--
                    ``(A) if the employment is with an Executive 
                agency, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
                Management may, at the request of the head of the 
                agency, waive the repayment if the individual involved 
                possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified 
                applicant available for the position;
                    ``(B) if the employment is with an entity in the 
                legislative branch, the head of the entity or the 
                appointing official may waive the repayment if the 
                individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
                the only qualified applicant available for the 
                position;
                    ``(C) if the employment is with the judicial 
                branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of 
                the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the 
                individual involved possesses unique abilities and is 
                the only qualified applicant available for the 
                position; or
                    ``(D) if the employment is without compensation, 
                the appointing official may waive the repayment;
            ``(8) shall be paid under regulations providing that offers 
        of separation pay shall be based on skills, knowledge, 
        performance, or other similar factors or combination of such 
        factors determined by the Comptroller General;
            ``(9) shall be paid upon the condition that the General 
        Accounting Office remit to the Office of Personnel Management 
        for deposit in the Treasury to the credit of the Civil Service 
        Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to 45 percent of 
        the final annual basic pay for each employee covered under 
        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5 to whom 
        separation pay has been paid under this section and--
                    ``(A) such remittance shall be in addition to any 
                other payments which the General Accounting Office is 
                required to make under subchapter III of chapter 83 or 
                chapter 84 of title 5; and
                    ``(B) for purposes of this paragraph the term 
                `final basic pay' with respect to an employee means the 
                total amount of basic pay which would be payable for a 
                year of service by such employee, computed using the 
                employee's final rate of basic pay, and, if last 
                serving on other than a full-time basis, with 
                appropriate adjustment therefore;
            ``(10) shall not be paid to more than 5 percent of the 
        workforce of the General Accounting Office in any fiscal year; 
        and
            ``(11) shall be paid to employees under this section for a 
        period of 5 years following the enactment of this section 
        unless Congress renews the authority for an additional period 
        of time.''.
    Sec. 214. Reduction in Force. Section 732(h) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(h)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 
35 of title 5, the Comptroller General shall prescribe regulations for 
the release of officers and employees of the General Accounting Office 
in a reduction in force which is carried out for downsizing, 
realigning, or correcting skill imbalances. The regulations shall give 
effect to military preference and may take into account such other 
factors as skills, knowledge, and performance in such a manner and to 
such an extent as the Comptroller General determines necessary and 
appropriate.
    ``(2) Except as provided under paragraph (3), an employee may not 
be released, due to a reduction in force, unless such employee is given 
written notice at least 60 days before such employee is so released. 
Such notice shall include--
            ``(A) the personnel action to be taken with respect to the 
        employee involved;
            ``(B) the effective date of the action;
            ``(C) a description of the procedures applicable in 
        identifying employees for release;
            ``(D) the employee's ranking relative to other competing 
        employees, and how that ranking was determined; and
            ``(E) a description of any appeal or other rights which may 
        be available.
    ``(3) The Comptroller General may, in writing, shorten the period 
of advance notice required under paragraph (2) with respect to a 
particular reduction in force, if necessary because of circumstances 
not reasonably foreseeable, except that such period may not be less 
than 30 days.''.
    Sec. 215. Annual Report. Section 719 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) appropriate legislative changes to sections 732(h), 
        (i), and (j) of this title.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C) by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) a description of the actions taken under 
                sections 732 (h), (i), and (j) of this title, including 
                information on the number of employees who received 
                voluntary early retirements and separation pay under 
                sections 732(i) and (j) and who were released under a 
                reduction in force action under section 732(h), and an 
                assessment of the effectiveness and usefulness of these 
                human capital initiatives in achieving the agency's 
                mission, meeting its performance goals, and fulfilling 
                its strategic plan.''.
    Sec. 216. Five-Year Assessment. (a) Not later than 5 years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall 
submit to Congress a report concerning the implementation and 
effectiveness of sections 209 through 214 of this Act.
    (b) The report under this section shall include--
            (1) a summary of the portions of the annual reports 
        required under sections 719(a)(3) and (b)(1)(D) of title 31, 
        United States Code;
            (2) recommendations for continuation of or legislative 
        changes to sections 732(h), (i), and (j) of title 31, United 
        States Code; and
            (3) any assessments or recommendations of the General 
        Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board and interested 
        employee groups or associations within the General Accounting 
        Office.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 301. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
    Sec. 302. No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2001 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.
    Sec. 303. Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 is 
appropriated for or the rate of compensation or designation of any 
office or position appropriated for is different from that specifically 
established by such Act, the rate of compensation and the designation 
in this Act shall be the permanent law with respect thereto: Provided, 
That the provisions in this Act for the various items of official 
expenses of Members, officers, and committees of the Senate and House 
of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators and Members of the 
House of Representatives shall be the permanent law with respect 
thereto.
    Sec. 304. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 305. (a) It is the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest 
extent practicable, all equipment and products purchased with funds 
made available in this Act should be American-made.
    (b) In providing financial assistance to, or entering into any 
contract with, any entity using funds made available in this Act, the 
head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent practicable, shall 
provide to such entity a notice describing the statement made in 
subsection (a) by the Congress.
    (c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency 
that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in 
America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any 
product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the 
United States, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract 
or subcontract made with funds provided pursuant to this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
section 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 306. Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of Public Law 104-1 
to pay awards and settlements as authorized under such subsection.
    Sec. 307. Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $252,000.
    Sec. 308. Section 316 of Public Law 101-302 is amended in the first 
sentence of subsection (a) by striking ``2000'' and inserting ``2001''.
    Sec. 309. Russian Leadership Program. Section 3011 of the 1999 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31; 113 Stat. 
93) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2000'' in subsections (a)(1), 
        (b)(4)(B), (d)(3), and (h)(1)(A) and inserting ``fiscal years 
        2000 and 2001''; and
            (2) by striking ``2001'' in subsection (a)(2), (e)(1), and 
        (h)(1)(B) and inserting ``2002''.
    Sec. 310. Capitol Security Consolidation. (a) Short Title.--This 
section may be cited as the ``Capitol Security Consolidation Act of 
2000''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Act of August 4, 1950'' means the Act 
        entitled ``An Act relating to the policing of the buildings and 
        grounds of the Library of Congress'', approved August 4, 1950 
        (2 U.S.C. 167 et seq.);
            (2) the term ``GPO police employee''--
                    (A) means an employee of the Government Printing 
                Office designated to serve as a special policeman under 
                section 317 of title 44, United States Code (as in 
                effect immediately before the effective date of this 
                section); and
                    (B) does not include any civilian employee 
                performing support functions;
            (3) the term ``function'' means any duty, obligation, 
        power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, activity, 
        or program; and
            (4) the term ``LOC police employee''--
                    (A) means an employee of the Library of Congress 
                designated as police under the first section of the Act 
                of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167) (as in effect 
                immediately before the effective date of this section); 
                and
                    (B) does not include any civilian employee 
                performing support functions.
    (c) Transfer of Personnel and Functions.--There are transferred to 
the United States Capitol Police--
            (1) each LOC police employee and each GPO police employee;
            (2) any--
                    (A) functions performed under section 317 of title 
                44, United States Code, and the first section and 
                section 9 of the Act August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167) (as 
                in effect immediately before the effective date of this 
                section); and
                    (B) related functions designated in the applicable 
                memorandum of understanding under subsection (h); and
            (3) any civilian employee of the Library of Congress or the 
        Government Printing Office who--
                    (A) performs security support functions; and
                    (B) is designated for transfer by the Chief of the 
                Capitol Police in the applicable memorandum of 
                understanding under subsection (h).
    (d) Members of Capitol Police.--Subject to subsection (e), each LOC 
police employee and GPO police employee transferred under subsection 
(c) shall be a member of the Capitol Police.
    (e) Qualification Determinations.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (d) shall not apply to any 
        individual who the Chief of the Capitol Police determines does 
        not meet the qualifications required to be a member of the 
        Capitol Police.
            (2) Age limitation.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        Chief of the Capitol Police may waive the application to any 
        individual of the maximum age limitation of 37 years for hiring 
        a member of the Capitol Police.
            (3) Training.--During the 1-year period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Capitol Police Board may 
        waive any regulation, standard, guideline, or other limitation 
        prescribed by the Capitol Police Board relating to the training 
        of a member of the Capitol Police with respect to any LOC 
        police employee or GPO police employee transferred under this 
        section.
            (4) Application for qualification determination.--Not later 
        than October 1, 2000, any LOC police employee or GPO police 
        employee who is transferred under this section may file an 
        application for a qualification determination under this 
        subsection with the Chief of the Capitol Police.
    (f) Transition Provisions.--
            (1) Transfer and allocations of appropriations.--The 
        unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, 
        allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising 
        from, available to, or to be made available in connection with 
        the functions transferred by this section shall be transferred 
        to the appropriations accounts for the Capitol Police under the 
        subheadings ``salaries'' and ``general expenses'' under the 
        heading ``Capitol Police'' under the heading ``CAPITOL POLICE 
        BOARD'', as applicable. Funds for salaries shall be provided in 
        equal amounts to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the 
        Senate, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate, and the 
        Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, to be 
        disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives. Unexpended funds transferred under this 
        section shall be used only for the purposes for which the funds 
        were originally authorized and appropriated.
            (2) Reorganization.--The Capitol Police Board is authorized 
        to allocate or reallocate any function transferred under this 
        section among members of the Capitol Police, and to establish, 
        consolidate, alter, or discontinue such organizational entities 
        in the Capitol Police as may be necessary or appropriate.
            (3) Interim assignments.--During the period beginning on 
        October 1, 2000, through September 30, 2001, each LOC police 
        employee or GPO police employee may perform any function 
        transferred under subsection (c)(2), as applicable, under the 
        direction of the Chief of the Capitol Police. Any such employee 
        performing such functions who is not a member of the Capitol 
        Police at the close of September 30, 2001, shall be separated 
        from service at that time.
            (4) High ranking loc and gpo police officers.--The Capitol 
        Police Board may reduce the rank of any LOC police employee or 
        GPO police employee who holds the rank of lieutenant (or the 
        equivalent of such rank) or higher immediately before the 
        effective date of this section.
            (5) Nonreduction in pay.--Except as provided under 
        paragraph (3), the transfer of any employee under this section 
        shall not cause that employee to be separated or reduced in pay 
        before October 1, 2002.
            (6) References.--Reference in any other Federal law, 
        Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, 
        or any document of or relating to the Librarian of Congress, 
        the Public Printer, the Library of Congress, or the Government 
        Printing Office with regard to functions transferred under this 
        section, shall be deemed to refer to the Capitol Police Board.
    (g) LOC and GPO Police Jurisdiction.--
            (1) Library of congress.--
                    (A) Designation of loc police employees.--The first 
                section of the Act of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167) is 
                repealed.
                    (B) Jurisdiction of loc police employees.--Section 
                9 of the Act of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167h) is 
                amended by striking ``The police provided'' through 
                ``Provided, That the'' and inserting ``The''.
                    (C) Regulations.--Section 7(a) of the Act of August 
                4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167f(a)) is amended by striking ``the 
                Librarian of Congress'' and inserting ``the Capitol 
                Police Board, in consultation with the Librarian of 
                Congress,''.
            (2) Government printing office.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 317 of title 44, United 
                States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 317. Protection of persons and property
    ``The Capitol Police shall protect persons and property in premises 
and adjacent areas occupied by or under the control of the Government 
Printing Office, in accordance with the Capitol Security Consolidation 
Act of 2000.''.
                    (B) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table 
                of contents for chapter 3 of title 44, United States 
                Code, is amended by striking the item relating to 
                section 317 and inserting the following:

``317. Protection of persons and property.''.
    (h) Memoranda of Understanding.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2000, the Chief 
        of the Capitol Police shall enter into--
                    (A) a memorandum of understanding with the 
                Librarian of Congress; and
                    (B) a memorandum of understanding with the Public 
                Printer of the Government Printing Office
            (2) Content.--Each memorandum under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) provide for the performance of law enforcement 
                functions relating to the Library of Congress or the 
                Government Printing Office, as the case may be, by 
                members of the Capitol Police;
                    (B) ensure that such members are under the 
                direction of the Chief of the Capitol Police;
                    (C) designate the related functions transferred 
                under subsection (c)(2);
                    (D)(i) provide for the interim assignment under 
                subsection (f)(3) of any LOC police employee or GPO 
                police employee, as the case may be;
                    (ii) coordinate the functions performed by such 
                employees on interim assignments with members of the 
                Capitol Police and civilian employees; and
                    (iii) ensure that such employees on interim 
                assignments are under the direction of the Capitol 
                Police;
                    (E) provide for--
                            (i) the designation of civilian employees 
                        of the Library of Congress or the Government 
                        Printing Office, as the case may be, for 
                        transfer under subsection (c)(3); and
                            (ii) the assignment of functions of such 
                        employees as civilian employees of the Capitol 
                        Police;
                    (F) provide for the coordination of any security-
                related functions performed by civilian employees of 
                the Library of Congress or the Government Printing 
                Office, as the case may be, with--
                            (i) law enforcement functions performed by 
                        members of the Capitol Police; and
                            (ii) any support functions performed by 
                        civilian employees of the Capitol Police;
                    (G) provide for procedures for determining rank and 
                pay and providing necessary training for individuals 
                transferred under this section;
                    (H) maintain or improve the public safety of the 
                Library of Congress or the Government Printing Office, 
                as the case may be; and
                    (I) provide for the efficient implementation of the 
                transfer of employees and functions under this section.
            (3) Library of congress regulations.--The memorandum of 
        understanding between the Chief of the Capitol Police and the 
        Librarian of Congress shall provide for the enforcement of, and 
        any modifications to, regulations prescribed under section 7 of 
        the Act of August 4, 1950 (2 U.S.C. 167f).
    (i) Capitol Police Board.--
            (1) In general.--Section 9 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
        define the area of the United States Capitol Grounds, to 
        regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes'', approved 
        July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 212a) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
    ``The Librarian of Congress and the Public Printer of the 
Government Printing Office shall be nonvoting ex officio members of the 
Capitol Police Board.''.
            (2) Effective date.--This subsection shall take effect with 
        respect to the Librarian of Congress and the Public Printer of 
        the Government Printing Office on the date on which the 
        applicable officer signs the memorandum of understanding 
        described under subsection (h), respectively.
    (j) Retirement Benefits.--
            (1) Service deemed to be service as capitol police.--Any 
        period of service performed by an individual as a LOC police 
        employee or a GPO police employee (including any period of 
        service performed by that individual on interim assignment 
        under subsection (f)(3)) shall be deemed to be service 
        performed as a member of the Capitol Police for purposes of 
        chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, United States Code, if--
                    (A) the individual becomes a member of the Capitol 
                Police under this section;
                    (B) not later than 90 days after the date of the 
                qualification determination under subsection (e), the 
                individual makes an election to be covered under this 
                paragraph; and
                    (C) the individual makes the payment under 
                paragraph (2).
            (2) Employee contributions.--An individual who makes an 
        election under paragraph (1)(A) to be covered under that 
        paragraph shall pay an amount determined by the Office of 
        Personnel Management equal to--
                    (A) the difference between--
                            (i) the amount deducted and withheld from 
                        basic pay under chapters 83 and 84 of title 5, 
                        United States Code, for the period of service 
                        described under paragraph (1); and
                            (ii) the amount that would have been 
                        deducted and withheld during that period, if 
                        service during that period had been performed 
                        as a member of the Capitol Police; and
                    (B) interest as prescribed under section 8334(e) of 
                title 5, United States Code, based on the amount 
                determined under subparagraph (A).
            (3) Agency contributions.--The Capitol Police shall pay an 
        amount for applicable agency contributions based on payments 
        made under paragraph (2).
            (4) Deposit of payments.--Payments under paragraphs (2) and 
        (3) shall be deposited in the Civil Service Retirement and 
        Disability Fund.
            (5) Age limitation.--During the period beginning on October 
        1, 2000, through September 30, 2002, sections 8335(d) and 
        8425(c) of title 5, United States Code, shall not apply to any 
        individual who becomes a member of the Capitol Police under 
        this section (including an individual who makes an election 
        under paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection to be covered under 
        that paragraph).
            (6) Regulations.--After consultation with the Capitol 
        Police Board, the Office of Personnel Management shall 
        prescribe regulations to carry out this subsection, including 
        regulations relating to employee contributions under paragraph 
        (2) that are similar to regulations under section 8334 of title 
        5, United States Code.
    (k) Leave.--Any annual or sick leave to the credit of an individual 
transferred under this section may be transferred to the credit of that 
individual as a member of the Capitol Police as determined by the 
Capitol Police Board.
    (l) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, this section and the amendments made by this section 
        shall take effect on October 1, 2000.
            (2) Date of enactment.--Subsections (e) and (h) shall take 
        effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 311. (a)(1) Any State may request the Joint Committee on the 
Library of Congress to approve the replacement of a statue the State 
has provided for display in Statuary Hall in the Capitol of the United 
States under section 1814 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 187).
    (2) A request shall be considered under paragraph (1) only if--
            (A) the request has been approved by a resolution adopted 
        by the legislature of the State and the request has been 
        approved by the Governor of the State, and
            (B) the statue to be replaced has been displayed in the 
        Capitol of the United States for at least 25 years as of the 
        time the request is made.
    (b) If the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress approves a 
request under subsection (a), the Architect of the Capitol shall enter 
into an agreement with the State to carry out the replacement in 
accordance with the request and any conditions the Joint Committee may 
require for its approval. Such agreement shall provide that--
            (1) the new statue shall be subject to the same conditions 
        and restrictions as apply to any statue provided by a State 
        under section 1814 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 187), and
            (2) the State shall pay any costs related to the 
        replacement, including costs in connection with the design, 
        construction, transportation, and placement of the new statue, 
        the removal and transportation of the statue being replaced, 
        and any unveiling ceremony.
    (c) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to permit a State 
to have more than 2 statues on display in the Capitol of the United 
States.
    (d)(1) The Joint Committee on the Library of Congress may approve 
the transfer to a State of the ownership of any statue being replaced 
under this section if the State includes a request for the approval of 
such transfer at the same time a request is made under subsection (a).
    (2) If any statue is removed from the Capitol of the United States 
as part of a transfer of ownership under paragraph (1), then it may not 
be returned to the Capitol for display unless such display is 
specifically authorized by Federal law.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2001''.


                                                       Calendar No. 565

106th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2603

                          [Report No. 106-304]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the legislative branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2001, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 23, 2000

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar