Calendar No. 738
101st CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 2924
A BILL
To expand the meat inspection programs of the United States by establishing
a comprehensive inspection program to ensure the quality and wholesomeness
of all fish products intended for human consumption in the United States,
and for other purposes.
July 26 (legislative day, JULY 10), 1990
Placed on the calendar
S 2924 PCS1S
(Star Print)
Calendar No. 738
101st CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 2924
To expand the meat inspection programs of the United States by establishing
a comprehensive inspection program to ensure the quality and wholesomeness
of all fish products intended for human consumption in the United States,
and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 26 (legislative day, JULY 10), 1990
Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. LUGAR, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. LOTT, Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. PRYOR, Mr. DIXON, Mr. CRANSTON, Mr. NUNN,
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. PELL, Mr. SIMON, Mr. BURDICK, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. D'AMATO,
Mr. KERREY, Mr. WIRTH, and Mr. REID) introduced the following bill; which was
read twice and pursuant to the order of July 25, 1990, placed on the calendar
A BILL
To expand the meat inspection programs of the United States by establishing
a comprehensive inspection program to ensure the quality and wholesomeness
of all fish products intended for human consumption in the United States,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Fish Safety Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  (1) fish are an important component of the flesh food supply of the United
  States and are processed and marketed by a large and diverse industry;
  (2) the wholesomeness and safety of fish and fish products are important
  to the health and well-being of the people of the United States;
  (3) the Department of Agriculture currently conducts inspection programs
  for all flesh food products other than fish products and has the technical
  expertise and work force capacity necessary to rapidly expand meat inspection
  programs to cover fish and fish products or to assist in efforts by States
  to accomplish that objective;
  (4) heightened public awareness of the health benefits associated with
  eating fish and fish products, and greater diversity of products, have
  raised consumption rates and the demand for wholesome products;
  (5) current Federal health inspection and monitoring programs are
  insufficient to ensure public confidence in the wholesomeness and safety
  of fish and fish products;
  (6) the sale of unwholesome, adulterated, mislabeled, or deceptively
  packaged fish or fish products is hazardous to consumers;
  (7) existing Federal standards are inadequate to maintain good fish and
  fish products handling and manufacturing practices, to ensure consistent
  fish and fish products packaging and labeling procedures, and to detect
  hazardous levels of contaminants in fish and fish products;
  (8) the Federal Government, in cooperation with the States, has the
  responsibility of ensuring the wholesomeness and safety of all fish and fish
  products sold in interstate commerce for consumption in the United States;
  (9) a public health-based inspection program is important for fish and
  fish products because of several factors, including--
  (A) the fish habitat is often an uncontrolled environment;
  (B) certain fish species tend to concentrate contaminants;
  (C) deterioration of fish and fish products tends to occur more rapidly; and
  (D) fish are consumed raw in some instances;
  (10) deceptively labeled or packaged fish products can compete unfairly
  with properly labeled and packaged products to the detriment of consumers
  and the public generally; and
  (11) in the past decade, various State and local agencies have issued
  warnings concerning the dangers of consuming certain types or species of
  fish, and the absence of Federal standards has made it difficult to assure
  that adequate standards are being applied nationwide.
  (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act--
  (1) to expand current flesh food inspection programs administered by the
  Department of Agriculture to include fish and fish products and to assist
  those States desiring to implement the inspection and sampling program
  described in this Act;
  (2) to ensure the wholesomeness and safety of all fish and fish products
  in the United States through the development of a comprehensive safety
  program, that will include--
  (A) a mandatory health-based program for the inspection of fish and fish
  products that will ensure that fish and fish products are properly labeled
  and packaged;
  (B) the establishment and enforcement of safety and wholesomeness standards
  for fish and fish products;
  (C) the monitoring and evaluation of fish and fish product safety risks;
  (D) the scientific assessment of consumer health risks attributable to
  the consumption of adulterated fish and fish products;
  (E) consumer education programs; and
  (F) the proper storage, labeling, processing, handling, and packaging of
  fish and fish products; and
  (3) to enhance public confidence in the wholesomeness and safety of fish and
  fish products, and protect the fish and fish products market by requiring
  the development of a comprehensive safety program.
SEC. 3. FISH INSPECTION PROGRAM.
  The Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1281 note) is amended by adding
  at the end thereof the following new title:
`TITLE XIX--FISH INSPECTION PROGRAM
`SEC. 1901. DEFINITIONS.
  `As used in this title:
  `(1) ADULTERATED- The term `adulterated' means any fish product that--
  `(A) bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance that may
  render such product injurious to health, except that if such substance
  is a naturally occurring part of the fish product, such product shall
  not be considered adulterated if the quantity of such substance does not
  ordinarily render such fish product injurious to human health;
  `(B)(i) bears or contains any added poisonous or added deleterious substance
  (other than a substance that is a pesticide chemical, a food additive,
  or a color additive) that may, in the judgment of the Secretary, make such
  product unfit for human food;
  `(ii) is, in whole or in part, a raw agricultural commodity and such
  commodity bears or contains any pesticide chemical which is unsafe within
  the meaning of section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
  (21 U.S.C. 346a);
  `(iii) bears or contains any food additive which is unsafe within the meaning
  of section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 348); or
  `(iv) bears or contains any color additive which is unsafe within the
  meaning of section 706 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21
  U.S.C. 376), except that a fish product that is not otherwise considered
  to be adulterated under this clause or under clauses (ii) or (iii) shall
  be considered to be adulterated if the use of a pesticide chemical,
  food additive, or color additive in or on such article is prohibited by
  regulations promulgated by the Secretary in establishments;
  `(C) consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, or decomposed
  substance or is for any other reason unsound, unhealthy, unwholesome,
  or otherwise unfit for human food;
  `(D) has been prepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions that
  may have resulted in such fish product becoming contaminated with filth,
  or becoming injurious to human health;
  `(E) is, in whole or in part, derived from any fish product identified as
  adulterated under the procedures described in section 1903(d);
  `(F) is or was contained in a container that is composed, in whole or
  in part, of any poisonous or deleterious substance that may render the
  contents injurious to health;
  `(G) has been intentionally subjected to radiation, except that the use
  of radiation in compliance with a regulation or exemption in effect under
  section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 348)
  shall not make such fish product adulterated under this subparagraph;
  `(H)(i) has any valuable constituent, in whole or in part, omitted or
  abstracted therefrom;
  `(ii) has any substance substituted, wholly or in part therefor;
  `(iii) has damage or an inferiority concealed in any manner; or
  `(iv) has substance added thereto or mixed or packed therewith so as
  to increase the bulk or weight, reduce the quality or strength, or make
  the appearance of such fish product better or of greater value than it
  actually is;
  `(I) has been made or derived in whole or in part from fish harvested
  in a production area that has been closed under this title, or closed
  to commercial fishing for that species by any State or other appropriate
  authority for reasons related to food safety;
  `(J) has been imported and is not in compliance with the requirements of
  section 1910;
  `(K) has been processed by any establishment whose facilities or equipment,
  or the operation thereof, fail to meet the requirements of this title; or
  `(L) has been handled by an establishment for which a certificate has not
  been issued, or by an establishment no longer holding a certificate.
  `(2) CAPABLE OF USE AS HUMAN FOOD- The term `capable of use as human food'
  shall apply to any fish product that is capable of being consumed by humans
  as food, unless it is denatured or otherwise identified as required by
  regulations promulgated by the Secretary to deter its use as human food,
  or unless it is naturally inedible by humans.
  `(3) CERTIFICATE- The term `certificate' means any certificate, prescribed
  under regulations promulgated by the Secretary, for issuance by an inspector
  or other person performing official functions under this title.
  `(4) COMMERCIAL FISHING VESSEL- The term `commercial fishing vessel' means
  a vessel that commercially engages in the catching, taking, or harvesting
  of fish or any activity that can reasonably be expected to result in the
  catching, taking, or harvesting of fish, capable of use as human food and
  intended for human consumption.
  `(5) CONTAINER, PACKAGE- The terms `container' and `package' include any
  box, can, tin, cloth, plastic, or other receptacle, wrapper, or cover.
  `(6) ESTABLISHMENT- The term `establishment' means any fish processing
  vessel that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, or any
  building, premises, structure, or other facility located in any State or
  Territory that is used in the handling or processing of fish products. Such
  term shall not include--
  `(A) recreational vessels, fish tender vessels, commercial fishing vessels,
  or aquaculture operations, unless any such vessels or operations process
  fish;
  `(B) retail stores;
  `(C) restaurants; or
  `(D) contract or common carriers that transport fish products.
  `(7) FISH- The term `fish' includes freshwater or marine finfish, mollusks,
  crustaceans, and other forms of aquatic animal life, including amphibians,
  whether from wild or cultured sources, other than birds or mammals.
  `(8) FISH PROCESSING VESSEL- The term `fish processing vessel' means a
  vessel that commercially prepares fish products, other than by gutting,
  decapitating, salting, gilling, skinning, shucking, icing, freezing to
  the extent that such freezing is associated with other actions related to
  processing, or brine chilling.
  `(9) FISH PRODUCT- the term `fish product' means any food product capable
  of use as human food derived in whole or in substantial part from fish,
  including unprocessed fish or any part thereof, excepting products which
  contain fish ingredients only in a relatively small proportion or that
  historically have not been considered by consumers as products of the
  fish food industry, and that are exempt from the definition of fish or
  fish product by the Secretary under such conditions as the Secretary may
  prescribe to ensure that the fish ingredients contained in such product are
  not adulterated and that such products are not represented as a fish product.
  `(10) FISH TENDER VESSEL- The term `fish tender vessel' means a vessel that
  commercially supplies, stores, refrigerates, or transports fish products
  that are intended for human consumption, or materials directly related to
  fishing or the preparation of fish, to or from a commercial fishing vessel,
  fish processing vessel, fish tender vessel or a fish processing facility.
  `(11) IMMEDIATE CONTAINER- The term `immediate container' includes any
  consumer package, or any other container in which fish products, not
  consumer packaged, are packed.
  `(12) INSPECTOR- The term `inspector' means any individual appointed or
  authorized by the Secretary to make inspections, to review compliance,
  or to perform other functions under this title.
  `(13) INTERSTATE COMMERCE- The term `interstate commerce' means commerce
  between any State or Territory, and any place outside thereof, or within
  any territory not organized with a legislative body.
  `(14) LABEL- The term `label', with respect to fish products, means a
  display of written, printed, or graphic matter appearing on the immediate
  container (not including package liners) of any fish product.
  `(15) LABELING- The term `labeling', with respect to fish products,
  means all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter on any fish
  product or on any of the packages, containers, or wrappers of such article,
  or accompanying any fish product.
  `(16) MISBRANDED- The term `misbranded' means any fish product--
  `(A) the labeling of which is false or misleading in any manner;
  `(B) if such fish product is offered for sale under the name of another food;
  `(C) if the package of such fish product is so made, formed, or filled as
  to be misleading;
  `(D) if the label of such fish product is not approved by the Secretary,
  or is not in a standard form that is approved by the Secretary, or otherwise
  is not in conformity with regulations promulgated by the Secretary;
  `(E) if such fish product is an imitation of another food product, unless the
  label of such fish product bears, in type of uniform size and prominence, the
  word `imitation' and immediately thereafter, the name of the food imitated;
  `(F) such fish product does not bear a label disclosing--
  `(i) the name and the place of business of the manufacturer, packer,
  or distributor; and
  `(ii) an accurate statement of the quantity of such fish product in terms
  of weight, measure, or numerical count, except that reasonable variations
  may be permitted, and exemptions as to small packages or articles that
  are not in packages or other containers may be established by regulations
  promulgated by the Secretary;
  `(G) if any word, statement, or other information required by or under the
  authority of this title to appear on the label or labeling of such fish
  product is not prominently placed on such product with such conspicuousness
  (as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices, in such
  labeling) and in such terms as to render it likely to be read and understood
  by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use;
  `(H) if such fish product purports to be or is represented as a food
  for which a definition and standard of identity or composition has been
  prescribed by the regulations of the Secretary under section 1908 of this
  title unless--
  `(i) such fish product conforms to such definition and standard; and
  `(ii) the label of such product bears the name of the food specified
  in such definition and standard and, insofar as may be required by such
  regulations, the common names of optional ingredients (other than spices,
  flavoring, and coloring) present in such food;
  `(I) if such fish product purports to be or is represented as a food for
  which a standard or standards of fill of the container of such product have
  been prescribed under regulations promulgated by the Secretary, and such fish
  product falls below the standard of fill of container that are applicable
  thereto, unless the label of such product bears, in such manner and form
  as such regulations require, a statement that it falls below such standard;
  `(J) if such fish product is not subject to the provisions of subparagraph
  (H), unless its label bears--
  `(i) the common or usual name of the food, if any such common or usual
  name exists; and
  `(ii) in the case of a product that is fabricated from two or more
  ingredients, the common or usual name of each such ingredient, except that
  spices, flavorings, and colorings may, when authorized by the Secretary,
  be designated as spices, flavorings, and colorings without naming each and,
  to the extent that compliance with this clause is impracticable or results
  in deception or unfair competition, exemptions shall be established through
  regulations promulgated by the Secretary;
  `(K) if such fish product bears or contains any artificial flavoring,
  artificial coloring, or chemical preservative, unless the fish product bears
  a label that states that fact, except that to the extent that compliance
  with the requirements of this subparagraph are impracticable, exemptions
  shall be established through regulations promulgated by the Secretary; or
  `(L) if such fish product fails to bear on its package or immediate
  container, and in the case of nonconsumer packaged fish (if the Secretary
  so requires) directly thereon, as the Secretary may through regulations
  prescribe, the official mark, and such other information as the Secretary
  may require in such regulations to ensure that such fish product will not
  have false or misleading labeling and that the public will be informed of the
  manner of handling required to maintain the article in a wholesome condition.
  `(17) OFFICIAL MARK- The term `official mark' means any official inspection
  legend or any other symbol, prescribed under regulations promulgated by
  the Secretary, to identify the establishment and the status of any fish
  product under this title.
  `(18) OWNER OR OPERATOR- The term `owner or operator' means any person
  who owns, operates, leases, charters, or otherwise controls in whole or
  in part any establishment or vessel.
  `(19) PERSON- The term `person' means any individual, partnership,
  corporation, establishment, importer of fish products, association, or
  other business unit.
  `(20) PESTICIDE CHEMICAL, OTHER TERMS- The terms `pesticide chemical',
  `food additive', `color additive' and `raw agricultural commodity' shall
  have the same meanings given such terms under the Federal Food, Drug,
  and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321, et. seq.).
  `(21) PROCESS- The terms `process' and `processing', with respect to fish
  products, means to prepare or manufacture such fish products by canning,
  cooking, smoking, filleting, fermenting, freezing to the extent that
  the freezing is associated with other actions related to processing,
  dehydrating, drying, and consumer packaging.
  `(22) PROGRAM- The term `program' means all aspects of the inspection and
  sampling program for fish products established under this title.
  `(23) RECREATIONAL VESSEL- The term `recreational vessel' means a vessel
  operated primarily for pleasure, or leased, rented or chartered to another
  for the pleasure of the leasee.
  `(24) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
  `(25) SHIPPING CONTAINER- The term `shipping container' means any container
  used or intended for use in packaging a fish product packed in an immediate
  container.
  `(26) STATE- The term `State' means any of the 50 States, the Commonwealth
  of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
  `(27) TERRITORY- The term `Territory' means any territory or possession
  of the United States not included in the definition under paragraph (26).
`SEC. 1902. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
  `(a) GENERAL EXEMPTIONS- The Secretary shall, by regulation and under such
  conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, exempt from specific provisions
  of this title--
  `(1) the processing by any individual of fish products raised or harvested
  by that individual exclusively for use by that individual or by the members
  of the household, the nonpaying guests, and the employees of that individual;
  `(2) the custom processing, in any establishment or vessel, of fish
  products that the owner of such products will exclusively use, in the
  household of the owner, for the owner or the members of the household,
  the nonpaying guests, or the employees of the owner, if--
  `(A) such establishment or vessel ensures that such fish products are
  segregated at all times from fish products processed for sale;
  `(B) such fish products are plainly labeled or marked as `Not for Sale'; and
  `(C) such establishments and vessels are maintained and operated in a
  sanitary manner;
  `(3) any establishment or vessel that processes only fish products that
  are not intended for use as human food, if such fish products are, prior
  to their offer for sale or other disposition in commerce, not capable of
  use as human food.
  `(4) the entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption in the
  United States of any fish product acquired outside the United States for
  consumption by the person entering or withdrawing it if--
  `(A) the total amount of such fish product does not exceed 50 pounds as
  the Secretary may prescribe by regulation; or
  `(B) the fish product is exempted by regulation because it was caught for
  other than commercial purposes in waters outside the United States; and
  `(5) operations of types traditionally and usually conducted at retail
  stores or restaurants, when conducted at any retail store or restaurant
  or similar retail-type establishment for sale in normal retail quantities
  of fish products to consumers at such stores or restaurants.
  `(b) EXCLUSIONS- This title shall not apply to recreational vessels,
  commercial fishing vessels or fish tender vessels except where such vessels
  process fish.
`SEC. 1903. FEDERAL AND STATE COOPERATION.
  `(a) STATE PROGRAMS-
  `(1) POLICY- It is the policy of Congress to protect the consuming public
  from fish products that are adulterated or misbranded and to assist in the
  efforts of State and other government agencies to accomplish this objective.
  `(2) INTRASTATE INSPECTION PROGRAMS-
  `(A) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY-
  `(i) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may, when the Secretary determines that it
  would effectuate the purposes of this title, cooperate with the appropriate
  State agency in any State that has enacted a mandatory State fish product
  inspection law that imposes inspection, sampling, sanitation and other
  requirements of the type described in this title, that are at least equal
  to those described in this title, to assist such State in developing and
  administering a State fish product inspection program with respect to
  all or certain classes of persons engaged in the State in processing fish
  products solely for sale or other distribution within such State.
  `(ii) MARKS OR CERTIFICATES- Each State program described in clause
  (i) applicable to fish products in intrastate commerce shall not permit
  such fish products to bear any official marks or certificates applicable
  to fish products in interstate commerce as authorized under this title,
  and any labels on such fish products shall clearly indicate that the fish
  product is for intrastate commerce only.
  `(B) ADULTERATION- Fish products processed or handled for intrastate
  commerce, as authorized under a program established under subparagraph (A),
  that are sold, transported, or delivered for introduction into, or offered
  for sale in interstate commerce shall be considered to be adulterated for
  purposes of this title.
  `(C) WARNING NOTICE- If the Secretary determines that a State fish product
  inspection program established under subparagraph (A) is not at least equal
  to the program established under this title, or that a State has failed to
  maintain or is not enforcing a fish product inspection program at least equal
  to the program established under this title, the Secretary shall promptly
  notify the chief executive officer of the State of such determination.
  `(D) NOTICE- If, after notification is provided to a State under subparagraph
  (C), and after the Secretary has consulted with the State and provided the
  State with an opportunity to promptly correct any deficiencies identified
  in such notification, the Secretary determines that a State fish product
  inspection program continues to have State standards that are not at least
  equal to those established under this title or that the State has failed
  to maintain or is not enforcing a program having standards at least equal
  to those established under this title, the Secretary shall--
  `(i) promptly notify the chief executive officer of such State of such
  determination;
  `(ii) discontinue assistance to such State under this title;
  `(iii) advise the Commissioner of Food and Drugs of such determination; and
  `(iv) notwithstanding any other provision of this title, in the case
  of adulterated fish products that are being distributed or sold within
  such State that are determined to clearly endanger the public health, the
  Secretary shall immediately notify the chief executive officer of the State
  of such determination, and if the State does not take action to prevent
  such endangering of the public health within a reasonable period of time
  after the receipt of such notice, as determined by the Secretary, in light
  of the risk to public health, the Secretary may require that such State be
  subject to the provisions of this title as though the fish products were
  in interstate commerce until such time as the Secretary determines that
  the State has developed and will enforce requirements at least equal to
  those imposed under this title.
  `(3) INTERSTATE COMMERCE-
  `(A) AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY-
  `(i) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may, when the Secretary determines that it
  would effectuate the purposes of this title, cooperate with appropriate
  State agencies concerning the State administration of the inspection and
  sampling components of the program established under this title on behalf
  of the Secretary.
  `(ii) REGULATIONS CONCERNING STATE ADMINISTRATION- The Secretary shall
  promulgate regulations concerning the State administration of the sampling
  and inspection components as described in clause (i) on behalf of the
  Secretary.
  `(iii) COOPERATION- The Secretary may cooperate with other agencies of
  the Federal Government in implementing this title.
  `(iv) EXAMINATIONS, ETC- In carrying out this title, the Secretary
  shall conduct such examinations, investigations, and inspections as the
  Secretary determines practicable through any officer or employee of any State
  commissioned by the Secretary for such purpose. The Secretary shall monitor,
  investigate and evaluate each program administered under this paragraph
  on behalf of the Secretary by a State on an ongoing basis to assure that
  such programs comply with the regulations and other requirements of the
  Secretary. The Secretary shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
  title with respect to States that administer the program on behalf of
  the Secretary.
  `(B) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE-
  `(i) AUTHORITY- The Secretary, in cooperating with State agencies under
  this paragraph, may provide such State agencies with--
  `(I) advisory assistance in planning and otherwise developing an adequate
  State program under this paragraph; and
  `(II) technical and laboratory assistance and training (including necessary
  curricular and instructional materials and equipment), and financial
  and other assistance necessary for the administration of a program under
  this paragraph.
  `(ii) AMOUNT- The amount to be contributed to any State by the Secretary for
  an approved State interstate commerce sampling and inspection program for
  any year shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the cooperative
  program, and Federal funds utilized by the Secretary under such clause shall
  be allocated among the States desiring to cooperate under this paragraph
  on an equitable basis. Such cooperation and payment shall be contingent
  at all times on the demonstration that the State program is adequate to
  effectuate the sampling and inspection requirements of this title.
  `(iii) WITHHOLDING OF ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may promulgate regulations
  to provide for the withholding of Federal assistance under this subparagraph
  if the Secretary determines that the State is not effectively and properly
  administering the State program under this title. Such regulations may
  provide for the subsequent payment of any withheld assistance if the State,
  to the satisfaction of the Secretary, corrects any deficiencies determined
  by the Secretary to exist.
  `(C) FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIPS- The Secretary shall establish procedures
  to enable States to apply to administer, on behalf of the Secretary,
  an inspection and sampling program under this paragraph.
  `(D) PLAN OF OPERATION- Each State approved by the Secretary to administer
  an inspection and sampling program for the Secretary under this paragraph
  shall annually prepare and submit to the Secretary a plan of operation
  that shall contain such information as the Secretary shall by regulation
  require, including a description of--
  `(i) the manner in which the State intends to administer the fish product
  inspection and sampling program consistent with the requirements of
  this title;
  `(ii) the State plans for sampling fish products and for inspecting and
  monitoring establishments;
  `(iii) State cost projections that contain the anticipated cost to the
  State in administering the program on behalf of the Secretary;
  `(iv) the staffing, equipment, and other needs of the State to administer
  such program and the indicators of the expected performance of the State
  in the administration of the program;
  `(v) the types of reports and other information that the State shall provide,
  as may be required by the Secretary; and
  `(vi) the procedures that the State will utilize for the issuing and
  handling of advance Federal payments under this title, and for the
  financial recordkeeping concerning the Federal share of the total cost of
  the cooperative programs administered under this paragraph.
  `(E) STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL-STATE COOPERATION-
  `(i) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish standards for the
  efficient and effective administration of the sampling and inspection
  program by each State whose application and plan of operation has been
  approved under this paragraph.
  `(ii) WARNING NOTICE- If the Secretary determines that any State inspection
  and sampling program established under this paragraph is not at least
  equal to the program established under regulations promulgated by the
  Secretary, or that a State has failed to maintain or is not operating a
  program at least equal to the program established under this title, the
  Secretary shall promptly notify the chief executive officer of the State
  of such determination.
  `(iii) DESIGNATION BY SECRETARY- If, after issuing a notification under
  clause (ii) to a State and after consulting with such State and providing an
  opportunity for the State to promptly correct any deficiencies identified
  in such notification, the Secretary determines that a State inspection and
  sampling program operated under this paragraph does not have standards that
  are at least equal to those required under this title or that such State
  has failed to maintain or operate a program having standards at least equal
  to those under this title, the Secretary shall promptly notify the chief
  executive officer of such State of such determination and designate such
  State as one in which the Federal inspection program established under
  this title shall apply.
  `(F) DEPUTIZATION OF STATE EMPLOYEES- The Secretary may deputize specific
  State employees in States approved to administer the Federal inspection
  and sampling program on behalf of the Secretary under this paragraph,
  under an annual agreement with each participating State to carry out, on
  behalf of the Secretary, the inspection program established under this title.
  `(4) ADVISORY COMMITTEES- The Secretary may appoint advisory committees
  consisting of such representatives of appropriate State agencies as the
  Secretary and the State agencies may designate to consult with the Secretary
  concerning State and Federal programs with respect to fish product inspection
  and other matters within the scope of this title. Such advisory committees
  may conduct evaluations of State programs and attempt to obtain improved
  coordination and more uniformity among such State programs and between
  the Federal and State programs, and shall provide advice on the protection
  of consumers.
  `(5) LOCAL COOPERATION- The appropriate State agency with which the Secretary
  may cooperate under this subsection shall be a single agency in the State
  that is primarily responsible for the coordination of the State programs
  having objectives that are the same as the objectives of this title. If the
  State program includes performance of certain functions by a municipality
  or other subordinate governmental unit, such unit shall be considered to
  be a part of the State agency for purposes of this subsection.
  `(b) DEVELOPMENT OF FEDERAL INSPECTION PROGRAM- The Secretary shall develop
  and administer a comprehensive and efficient health-based inspection
  program for fish products designed to protect the consuming public from
  fish products that may be adulterated or misbranded.
  `(c) FEDERAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- The inspection program established by
  the Secretary under subsection (b) shall--
  `(1) be specifically designed to take into consideration the special
  characteristics of fish species and fish products;
  `(2) be based on a comprehensive assessment of fish and fish products, and
  the processing and handling of such products, that identifies the hazards
  and assesses the severity of the hazards and risks, and that prescribes
  health-based standards for sanitation in the processing of fish products
  in establishments to ensure that fish products will not be adulterated or
  misbranded when delivered to the consumer;
  `(3) be based on a consideration by the Secretary of all procedures utilized
  during the processing and distribution of fish including--
  `(A) the identification and assessment of the severity of the potential
  health risks associated with fish, fish species, and fish products and
  with the processing and handling of such fish, species, and products;
  `(B) a determination of the sources and specific points of potential
  contamination that may adulterate fish products; and
  `(C) the potential for persistence and multiplication or concentration of
  contaminants in fish and fish products;
  `(4) be based on the need to require procedures to prevent, eliminate or
  control potential contaminants that may adulterate fish and fish products
  and the need to monitor those procedures;
  `(5) be specifically designed to take into consideration the distinctive
  characteristics, hazards, control points, and processing procedures related
  to different species of fish;
  `(6) assure, through frequent, and unannounced or announced, inspections
  of establishments that the processing of fish products complies with the
  standards prescribed pursuant to this title and the regulations issued
  by the Secretary thereunder, including standards for good sanitation,
  manufacturing, processing, storage, temperature control, packaging, and
  handling, taking into consideration--
  `(A) the nature and frequency of operations;
  `(B) the adequacy of monitoring programs;
  `(C) the history of compliance with this title;
  `(D) the recommendations of the Model Seafood Surveillance Program;
  `(E) the potential of the operations to affect human health based on the
  probability of fish, fish species, or fish products being susceptible to
  adulterants or otherwise having potential to affect public health;
  `(F) the compliance of the establishment with other federal health and
  safety laws; and
  `(G) such other factors as the Secretary may determine appropriate;
  `(7) not require the freezing or cooking of fish or fish products that
  are intended for raw consumption unless the Secretary determines that
  such freezing or cooking is the only practical procedure available that
  will adequately prevent, eliminate, or control an identified source of
  adulteration in the specified fish species;
  `(8) provide for the identification and classification of fish growing
  and harvesting areas in conjunction with the appropriate Federal and
  State agencies;
  `(9) provide for the delegation, as described in this title, of certain
  inspection and sampling authorities to State governments and provide
  compensation to the States for carrying out such authority at a level not
  to exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the cooperative program;
  `(10) provide for the sampling and inspection of fish products, and for the
  monitoring, and the taking of samples or readings, at such points, in such
  manner, and with such frequency as the Secretary determines necessary,
  taking into consideration the factors described in subparagraphs (A)
  through (G) of paragraph (6);
  `(11) establish procedures (that may include requiring the marking of
  containers, packages or fish products, or by requiring such recordkeeping,
  lot processing, or other handling procedures as the Secretary determines
  appropriate) to assist the Secretary in determining sources of contamination,
  including determining which harvesting or growing areas are likely to
  produce fish that are adulterated; and
  `(12) provide for the promulgation of regulations establishing rules for
  the identification, naming, labeling and fill of containers of fish products
  taking into consideration current industry practices and Federal regulations.
  `(d) TOLERANCES-
  `(1) POISONOUS OR DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall establish
  tolerances, except where such tolerances are established by the Administrator
  of the Environmental Protection Agency, that shall be applicable to
  poisonous or deleterious substances that may adulterate fish products
  under the definition of adulteration contained in subparagraphs (A) and
  (B) of section 1901(1), which shall be used by the Secretary to determine
  instances in which fish products will be considered adulterated under such
  subparagraphs. Any such tolerances shall be established at levels so that
  fish products are not injurious to health.
  `(B) CONSULTATION- Tolerances shall be established under subparagraph (A)
  in consultation with--
  `(i) the National Academy of Sciences;
  `(ii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
  `(iii) the Centers for Disease Control;
  `(iv) the Secretary of Agriculture;
  `(v) the Secretary of Commerce; and
  `(vi) the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference.
  `(C) BASIS- Tolerances shall be established under subparagraph (A) based
  on a scientific analysis of the health risks attributable to the poisonous
  or deleterious substance for which the tolerance is being established.
  `(D) TRADE REPRESENTATIVES- The Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall consult
  and advise the United States Trade Representative concerning tolerances
  that may apply to international trade negotiations.
  `(E) RECONSIDERATION- The Commissioner of Food and Drugs or the Administrator
  of the Environmental Protection Agency shall review and reconsider any
  tolerances established under subparagraph (A) concerning fish products as
  new scientific information or new technologies become available.
  `(2) CONTAMINANTS- The Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall establish
  tolerances, except where such tolerances are established by the
  Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal
  Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, for harmful chemicals, toxins, parasites,
  pathogenic microorganisms, viruses, bacteria, and other harmful agents,
  that may render fish products adulterated.
  `(3) INDICATORS- The establishment of tolerances under this subsection
  may include the use of indicators present in fish or fish products,
  including indicator organisms, from which it may reasonably be inferred
  that a hazardous or injurious contaminant or substance is present whenever
  the contaminant or a poisonous or deleterious substance itself cannot be
  cost-effectively detected.
  `(e) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude
  any State from establishing an additional fish products quality program
  for fish products grown or harvested in such State.
`SEC. 1904. GROWING AND HARVESTING AREAS.
  `(a) IDENTIFICATION OF GROWING AREAS- The Secretary of Commerce for
  waters under the exclusive jurisdiction of such Secretary, and appropriate
  State authorities for waters under the jurisdiction of such appropriate
  State authorities, shall establish a system for the identification and
  classification of growing and harvesting areas for fish in coastal areas
  and the Great Lakes.
  `(b) MONITORING- The Secretary shall sample and test fish products to
  determine if there is any significant instance or trend in the condition
  of such fish products that may pose a significant threat to the health
  and safety of consumers.
  `(c) NOTICE-
  `(1) DETERMINATION- If the Secretary determines that a significant instance
  or trend of the type described under subsection (b) exists, the Secretary
  shall notify the appropriate State or Federal agencies with authority to
  remedy such instance or trend. Such agencies shall include--
  `(A) the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference;
  `(B) the State from which any such fish may have been harvested;
  `(C) the Secretary of Commerce;
  `(D) the Commissioner of Food and Drugs; and
  `(E) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
The Secretary shall publish notice of the significant instance or trends
determined to exist in the Federal Register.
  `(2) ACTIONS- Each agency notified under paragraph (1) shall, not later than
  30 days after the receipt of such notice, inform the Secretary in writing
  of any actions that such agency has taken to prevent the distribution of
  adulterated fish products to consumers. Any such written information shall
  be available for public inspection.
  `(d) GRANTS- The Secretary, in cooperation with States under this section,
  may provide States with financial and other assistance to prevent the entry
  of adulterated fish products into establishments, including annual grants
  to each State that is a member of the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation
  Conference.
  `(e) CLOSURE OF AREAS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of public health emergencies or on receiving
  notice of the type described in subsection (b) from the Secretary, the
  Secretary of Commerce may close waters under the exclusive jurisdiction
  of the Secretary of Commerce, or otherwise restrict the harvesting of a
  fish species in such waters if the Secretary of Commerce determines that
  fish of such species within the identified harvesting or growing areas
  are likely to be adulterated.
  `(2) REVIEW- The Secretary of Commerce shall periodically review the
  growing and harvesting areas closed or restricted under this subsection
  to determine whether such closure or restriction should be removed. The
  Secretary of Commerce shall establish procedures to permit further review
  on petitions by affected persons.
  `(3) NOTICE- The Secretary of Commerce shall give reasonable public notice,
  except in cases determined to be public health emergencies, prior to
  ordering any closure or restriction under this section.
`SEC. 1905. POWER OF INSPECTORS.
  `(a) ACTIONS OF INSPECTORS- Inspectors authorized by the Secretary to
  conduct inspections, enforce compliance, and otherwise implement his title
  (including State employees so authorized) shall, pursuant to procedures
  prescribed by the Secretary, take such actions as are necessary in the
  judgment of the inspector to implement this title and the regulations
  promulgated under this title. Such actions may include--
  `(1) the inspection of establishments and all locations within
  establishments, including fish products, packages, containers, labeling,
  equipment, processing procedures, and records related to this title;
  `(2) the sampling and testing of fish products;
  `(3) the detention and condemnation of adulterated or misbranded fish
  products in accordance with this title; and
  `(4) the inspection, sampling and testing of imports of fish products.
  `(b) CONDEMNED FISH PRODUCTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), all fish products
  found by the Secretary to be adulterated or misbranded shall be immediately
  segregated, seized, and, if objection is not made within 48 hours,
  condemned. If objection is made, such fish products that are in perishable
  form may be processed to the extent necessary to prevent spoilage pending
  hearing and judicial review.
  `(2) COMPLIANCE ACTIONS- If the Secretary determines that an adulterated
  or misbranded fish product can, by relabeling or other action, be brought
  into compliance with this title or the regulations promulgated under this
  title, the Secretary may defer a final determination as to the condemnation
  of such fish product pending the performance by the applicant within a time
  period specified by the Secretary of such relabeling or other action as the
  Secretary may authorize. If after such action is performed, the Secretary
  determines that the fish product has been brought into compliance with
  this title, the Secretary shall permit its entry into commerce.
  `(3) DESTRUCTION- A fish product condemned by the Secretary without
  objection, or after hearing and judicial review under section 1918, shall
  be destroyed and not utilized for human food purposes under the supervision
  of the Secretary.
  `(c) ACCESS- Inspectors under this title shall have access, for purposes
  of examination, sampling, inspection, condemnation, and for such other
  purposes as are determined necessary, to every part of any establishment.
`SEC. 1906. SANITARY CONDITIONS.
  `(a) MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES- Each establishment shall maintain premises,
  facilities, and equipment, and the operation of such, in accordance with
  such sanitary practices as are required under regulations promulgated by
  the Secretary for the purpose of preventing the entry into, or flow or
  movement in, or burdensome effect on, commerce, of fish products which
  are adulterated.
  `(b) STORAGE OR HANDLING- The Secretary shall, by regulation, prescribe
  conditions under which fish products shall be stored or otherwise handled by
  any person engaged in the business of buying, selling, freezing, storing,
  or transporting, in or for commerce, or importing, such articles, when
  the Secretary determines that such action is necessary to ensure that
  such articles will not be adulterated or misbranded when delivered to
  the consumer. The Secretary may establish guidelines for the training
  of persons who are employed by establishments involved in fish and fish
  product sanitation and quality control.
  `(c) TEMPORARY EXEMPTION AUTHORITY- The Secretary may, under such sanitary
  conditions as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe, exempt from the
  inspection requirements of this title until, July 1, 1995, or earlier,
  the handling or processing of fish products by any person, where the
  Secretary determines--
  `(1) that it is impractical to provide such inspection based on the amount
  of funds appropriated for the administration of this title; and
  `(2) that an exemption under this subsection will aid in the effective
  transition to the program implemented under this title.
`SEC. 1907. CERTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS, IMPORTERS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) PROCEDURES- The Secretary shall establish procedures for the annual
  certification, or decertification for good cause, of establishments,
  and persons engaged in the business of importing of fish or fish products.
  `(2) INFORMATION- The Secretary shall require such information as
  the Secretary determines appropriate for application for certification
  under paragraph (1), including the name of the owner and operator of the
  establishment or import business, the principal place of business, and a
  list of each type of fish or fish product typically processed, handled,
  or imported by each such establishment or importer.
  `(3) PROHIBITION- No establishment or person engaged in the business of
  importing shall process or handle any fish product for commercial purposes
  unless such establishment or importer is certified by the Secretary.
  `(b) APPLICATIONS- Applications for certification under subsection (a) shall
  be made to the Secretary using such forms and requiring such information
  as the Secretary shall prescribe by regulation including a description of
  the quality control program of the establishment or importer.
  `(c) REFUSAL TO CERTIFY, REVOCATION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If an establishment or importer certified under subsection
  (a) fails to comply with any requirement of this title or the regulations
  promulgated under this title, the Secretary may, after notice and an
  opportunity for a hearing--
  `(A) revoke such certification;
  `(B) suspend such certification for a period of time; or
  `(C) impose conditions or restrictions on such certification as the
  Secretary determines necessary and appropriate.
  `(2) DENIAL OR REVOCATION- The Secretary may (for such period,
  or indefinitely, as the Secretary determines necessary to effect the
  purposes of this title) refuse to certify or decertify an establishment or
  importer if the Secretary determines, after providing such establishment
  or importer with an opportunity for a hearing, that such establishment
  or importer is unfit to engage in any business subject to or requiring
  inspection under this title as a result of the establishment or importer,
  or anyone responsibly connected with the establishment or importer, having
  been convicted in any Federal or State court of--
  `(A) acquiring, handling, or distributing adulterated, mislabeled, or
  deceptively packaged food or fraud in connection with transactions in
  food; or
  `(B) any felony, involving fraud, bribery, extortion, or any other act or
  circumstances indicating a lack of the integrity needed for the conduct
  of operations affecting the public health.
  `(3) RESPONSIBLY CONNECTED- For the purpose of this subsection a person
  shall be considered to be responsibly connected with the establishment or
  importer if such person is a partner, officer, director, holder, or owner
  of 10 percent or more of the voting stock of the establishment or importer
  or is an employee in a managerial or executive capacity, as defined in
  regulations promulgated by the Secretary.
  `(4) HEARINGS- On the revocation of a certification for failure to destroy
  condemned fish products as required under this title, or as a result of
  any other failure of an establishment or importer to comply with the
  requirements of this title as to premises, facilities, or equipment,
  or the operation thereof, or other noncompliance with the requirements
  of this title, the applicant for, or holder of, the certification shall,
  on request, be afforded an opportunity for a hearing with respect to the
  merits or validity of such action under section 1918. Such decertification
  or refusal to certify shall continue in effect unless otherwise ordered
  by the Secretary.
  `(5) REINSTATEMENT-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- An establishment or importer that has had a certification
  revoked or suspended under this subsection may apply for reinstatement of
  such certification. The Secretary shall grant such reinstatement, if the
  revocation or suspension is pending in a hearing or appeal under paragraph
  (4), if the Secretary determines that the establishment or importer is
  fit to engage in the handling or processing of fish products.
  `(B) CONDITIONAL OR RESTRICTED CERTIFICATIONS- An establishment or importer
  that has a certification that is conditional or restricted may apply for the
  removal of such conditions or restrictions. The Secretary shall immediately
  remove such conditions or restrictions, if the existence of the condition
  or restriction is pending in a hearing or appeal under paragraph (4),
  if the Secretary finds that adequate measures have been taken to comply
  with this title or regulations promulgated under this title.
`SEC. 1908. LABELING, PACKAGING AND MARKING.
  `(a) LABELING- All fish products processed at any establishment certified
  under this title, and that are not found to be adulterated, shall at the time
  that such products leave the establishment bear, in distinctly legible form,
  on their shipping containers and immediate containers such information as
  the Secretary may require. The Secretary may permit such fish products to
  bear a seal stating that the product was processed in accordance with Federal
  standards or such similar language as the Secretary determines appropriate.
  `(b) PROTECTION OF PUBLIC- The Secretary, when the Secretary determines
  such action is necessary for the protection of the public, may prescribe--
  `(1) the styles and sizes of type to be used, with respect to material
  required to be incorporated in labeling to avoid false or misleading
  labeling, in marking and labeling any fish products subject to this title;
  `(2) definitions and standards of identity or composition of articles subject
  to this title and standards of fill of containers for such articles that
  shall not be inconsistent with any such standards established under the
  Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; and
  `(3) procedures that permit statements on labels that indicate the State
  or location of origin of the product.
  `(c) MARKING- The Secretary shall--
  `(1) require the owner or operator of any establishment certified under
  this title, to cause each package of fish product that is processed
  in such establishment to be marked at the time the package leaves the
  establishment with--
  `(A) the appropriate identification issued under the authority of this
  title; and
  `(B) labeling that bears or contains an official mark; and
  `(2) ensure that the official mark shall be available only for fish products
  that are processed in establishments certified under this title.
  `(d) NO SALES- No article subject to this title shall be sold or offered for
  sale in commerce by any person, under any name or other marking or labeling
  that is false or misleading, or in any container of a misleading form or
  size. Established trade names and other marking and labeling that are not
  false or misleading and that are approved by the Secretary are permitted.
  `(e) FALSE LABELS OR MARKINGS-
  `(1) WITHHOLDING REQUIREMENT- If the Secretary has reason to believe
  that any marking or labeling or the size or form of any container in use
  or proposed for use with respect to any article subject to this title is
  false or misleading in any particular, the Secretary may require that such
  use be withheld unless the marking, labeling, or container is modified in
  such manner as the Secretary may prescribe so that it will not be false
  or misleading.
  `(2) REQUEST FOR HEARING- If a person using or proposing to use markings,
  labeling, or a container that is subject to a withholding requirement under
  paragraph (1) does not accept such requirement, such person may request
  a hearing, and the use of such marking, labeling, or container shall,
  if the Secretary so requires, be withheld pending such hearing and final
  determination by the Secretary.
  `(3) APPEALS- Any determination by the Secretary under paragraph (2) shall be
  conclusive unless, not later than 30 days after the person receives notice
  of such final determination, such person appeals such determination to the
  United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which such person has
  its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals
  for the District of Columbia Circuit. The provisions of section 204 of
  the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 194) shall be applicable
  to appeals brought under this section.
`SEC. 1909. RECORDS, REPORTS AND DISCLOSURE.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Establishments shall maintain accurate records as determined
  to be appropriate by the Secretary. Any requirements imposed under this
  section may include information concerning--
  `(1) the receipt, delivery, sale, movement, or disposition of fish or
  fish products;
  `(2) matters reasonably related to whether fish products may be adulterated
  or misbranded, including the growing or harvesting area from which such
  fish was harvested;
  `(3) the effective enforcement of this title to ensure against the sale
  or distribution of adulterated or misbranded fish products to consumers; and
  `(4) other activities and matters relevant to food safety and sanitation.
  `(b) TIME PERIODS- The persons described in subsection (c) shall, for
  such period of time as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe (not to
  exceed 2 years unless otherwise directed by the Secretary for good cause
  shown) keep and maintain such records as determined by the Secretary to
  be appropriate under subsection (a).
  `(c) PERSONS AFFECTED- The recordkeeping and other requirements of this
  section shall apply to any person, not exempted under section 1902--
  `(1) that engages in the business of processing any fish product for
  interstate commerce; and
  `(2) that engages in the business of buying or selling (such as acting as
  products brokers or wholesalers), or transporting, in interstate commerce,
  or storing in or for interstate commerce or importing any fish products.
  `(d) ACCESS TO RECORDS- The Secretary and the Secretary of Commerce shall,
  on request at reasonable times, have access to and make copies of records
  maintained under this section.
`SEC. 1910. IMPORTS.
  `(a) REQUIREMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- No fish product shall be entered, or withdrawn from
  warehouses, for consumption in the United States, unless such fish product--
  `(A) is not adulterated or misbranded;
  `(B) complies with all requirements applicable to fish products in commerce
  in the United States under this title;
  `(C) is marked and labeled as required by regulations for imported
  articles; and
  `(D) complies with the requirements of this title and regulations promulgated
  under this title.
  `(2) TREATMENT- On entry into the United States, any fish product that
  satisfies the requirements of paragraph (1) shall be considered and treated
  as domestic fish products under this title, except that all labeling of
  such fish products shall identify the country of origin.
  `(b) INSPECTION OF IMPORTS- The Secretary shall enforce the requirements of
  this section through inspections and other procedures, and the sampling and
  inspection of fish products that are offered for importation or entered,
  or withdrawn from warehouses, for consumption in the United States, and
  through any other procedures that the Secretary determines necessary to
  ensure compliance with this title.
  `(c) CORRECTIVE ACTIONS- All fish products that are refused entry into
  commerce in the United States under subsection (a) or that are entered,
  or withdrawn from warehouses, for consumption in the United States in
  violation of this section, shall pursuant to regulations promulgated by
  the Secretary, be destroyed unless--
  `(1) such fish products are exported within a time fixed for such exportation
  by the Secretary; or
  `(2) the Secretary determines that such fish product can be brought into
  compliance with this title through relabeling or other action.
If the Secretary makes a positive determination under paragraph (2), the
destruction of such fish product may be deferred pending the filing of
a written application by the owner or consignee and the execution by the
applicant of a bond within a time period specified by the Secretary. On such
filing and execution of a bond, the Secretary may authorize the applicant
to perform such relabeling or other actions required by the Secretary. If
after such action is performed, the Secretary determines that such fish
product has been brought into compliance with this title, the Secretary
shall permit its entry into commerce.
  `(d) COSTS- Storage, cartage, labor, and other costs resulting from the
  denial of entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, of any fish product under
  this section shall be paid by the owner or consignee of such product. The
  nonpayment of such costs shall constitute a lien against such product and
  any other fish product thereafter entered, or withdrawn from warehouse,
  for consumption in the United States by such owner or consignee.
  `(e) FOREIGN SEAFOOD INSPECTION PROGRAM-
  `(1) REVIEW- On request of a country desiring to export fish products to
  the United States, the Secretary shall review the inspection program,
  including the sanitary, wholesomeness, quality, species verification,
  residue and other requirements and tolerances, with respect to fish products
  to be offered for importation into the United States, to determine whether
  such requirements and tolerances for such products are at least equal to
  those established under this title.
  `(2) CERTIFICATION- If the Secretary determines that a country desiring to
  export fish products to the United States meets the standards and procedures
  set forth in paragraph (1), with respect to fish products to be offered
  for importation into the United States, and that such country will permit
  the enforcement measures that the Secretary determines necessary pursuant
  to paragraph (5), the Secretary shall issue a certificate to such country
  stating that the country meets such requirements.
  `(3) EFFECT OF NONCERTIFICATION- All fish products imported from a
  country that is not certified by the Secretary under this section shall
  be inspected by the Secretary at the port of entry to ensure compliance
  with the provisions of this section.
  `(4) REVIEW-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall periodically review certificates
  issued under this subsection and shall revoke any such certificate if the
  Secretary determines that such action is necessary.
  `(B) INSPECTION- The consideration of any application for a certification
  under this subsection and the review of any such certification, by the
  Secretary, shall include the inspection of individual establishments
  that produce fish products to be offered for export to the United States
  to ensure that such products, and the procedures and standards used in
  handling and processing such products, meet the inspection, sanitary,
  quality, species verification, residue and other standards and tolerances
  required by this title.
  `(5) ENFORCEMENT- The Secretary shall enforce the requirements of this
  section through inspections, sampling, testing, or such other actions at
  such stages in the handling or processing of fish products, whether in
  the foreign country, during importation, or otherwise as the Secretary
  determines necessary to ensure compliance with this title.
  `(f) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Not later than March 1 of each year, the
  Secretary shall submit, to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry
  of the Senate, a comprehensive and detailed written report with respect
  to the administration of this section during the immediately preceding
  calendar year. Such report shall include--
  `(1) a certification by the Secretary that foreign entities exporting
  fish products under this section have complied with requirements at least
  equal to all the inspection, building construction standards, and all
  other provisions of this title and regulations issued thereunder;
  `(2) the names and locations of establishments authorized or permitted to
  have imported fish products into the United States;
  `(3) the number of inspectors employed by the Department of Agriculture in
  the calendar year for which the report is being prepared that were assigned
  to inspect the establishments referred to in paragraph (2) and the frequency
  with which each such establishment was inspected by such inspectors;
  `(4) the number of inspectors licensed by each country from which any
  imports subject to the provisions of this section were imported who were
  assigned, during the calendar year concerned, to inspect such imports and
  the facilities in which such imports were handled and the frequency and
  effectiveness of such inspections;
  `(5) the total volume of fish products that were imported into the United
  States during the year for which such report was prepared from each country,
  including a separate itemization of the volume of each major category of
  such imports from each country during such year, and a detailed report
  of rejections of entities for certification and products because of
  the failure of such entities or products to meet appropriate standards
  prescribed under this section; and
  `(6) the name of each foreign country that applies requirements for the
  importation of fish products from the United States.
`SEC. 1911. EXPORTS.
  `(a) STANDARDS- Fish products intended for export to a foreign country
  shall not be considered to be adulterated or misbranded under this title
  if such products--
  `(1) are exported consistent with the specifications of the foreign
  purchaser;
  `(2) are not in conflict with the laws of the country to which they are
  intended for export;
  `(3) are labeled on the outside of the shipping package that they are
  intended for export; and
  `(4) are not sold, offered for sale, or otherwise disposed of in commerce
  within the United States except that such fish product shall be considered
  to be adulterated if the Secretary determines such products represent a
  threat to the health of the eventual consumer.
  `(b) INSPECTION- The Secretary shall inspect fish products intended to be
  exported to foreign countries at such times and places and in such manner
  as the Secretary determines necessary.
  `(c) CERTIFICATES- The Secretary shall, on request of the exporter, provide
  a certificate for export stating the condition of fish products inspected
  under this section.
`SEC. 1912. RECALL.
  `The Secretary may require any person who owns or operates an establishment
  or is in the business of importing of fish products, to recall any fish
  product that is adulterated or misbranded if the Secretary determines that
  such fish product is adulterated or misbranded and could cause serious
  health consequences.
`SEC. 1913. COOPERATION WITH CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL.
  `The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall establish, through
  the Centers for Disease Control, an active surveillance system, based
  on a representative proportion of the population of the United States,
  to provide an accurate estimate of the frequency of human disease in
  the United States associated with the consumption of food, including a
  comparison of each major food category.
`SEC. 1914. PROHIBITED ACTS.
  `The following acts and the causing thereof are prohibited under this title--
  `(1) the processing or handling of any fish product at any establishment
  except in compliance with the requirements of this title;
  `(2) the refusal to permit entry or inspection to or on any establishment
  or business engaged in importing fish products, or to otherwise interfere
  with any inspector or other person in carrying out the duties required
  under this title or under regulations implementing this title;
  `(3) the sale, transportation, or offer for sale or transportation, in
  interstate commerce of any fish product that is adulterated or misbranded at
  the time of such sale, transportation, or offer for sale or transportation;
  `(4) the possession by any establishment of fish products except in
  compliance with the requirements of this title or regulations issued under
  this title;
  `(5) the commission of any act, or the omission of any act, while fish
  product is being transported in interstate commerce, or held for sale
  after such transportation, that is intended to cause or has the effect of
  causing such products to be adulterated or misbranded;
  `(6) the sale, transportation, or offer for sale or transportation, in
  interstate commerce of any fish product that is not processed in accordance
  with the requirements of this title or any regulations promulgated under
  this title;
  `(7) the reproduction, alteration, or destruction of any official stamp
  or certificate without the authorization of the Secretary;
  `(8) the misbranding of fish products, or the creation or maintenance of
  records that are false either by content or omission, or destruction of
  records containing information required under this title or the alteration
  or removal of the whole or any part of the labeling of, or the doing of any
  other act with respect to fish products if such act is done while such fish
  products are held for sale (whether or not such sale is the first sale)
  after shipment in interstate commerce and results in such article being
  adulterated or misbranded;
  `(9) the handling or processing for interstate commerce of fish products
  in any establishment unless there is in effect for such establishment a
  certification issued by the Secretary; and
  `(10) the importation into the United States of fish products if such
  articles are adulterated, labeled or packaged in a false or misleading way,
  or otherwise misbranded, or fail to comply with all the inspection, good
  processing practices, and other provisions of this title and regulations
  issued under this title applicable to such articles in interstate commerce
  within the United States.
`SEC. 1915. CIVIL PENALTIES.
  `(a) FINES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Any person who violates any provision of this title, or
  the regulations promulgated pursuant to this title, shall be liable to the
  United States for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $5,000 for
  the first violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute
  a separate offense.
  `(2) CIVIL ACTIONS FILED IN DISTRICT COURT- The Secretary may commence
  a civil action in the United States district court in which the person
  subject to requirements of this title resides, to seek a civil fine from
  any such person for violation of this title.
  `(3) FINDING OF FAILURE TO COMPLY- If the court, in an action brought under
  paragraph (2), finds on the basis of clear and convincing evidence, that
  the person subject to the requirements of this title has failed to comply
  with such requirements, or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
  the court shall fine the person not more than $5,000 for each such violation.
  `(4) NOTICE- Not less than 90 days, and not more than 180 days, prior to
  commencing a civil action under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall provide
  to each person that is the subject of the action, a written notice that
  shall include--
  `(A) a statement that the Secretary intends to commence such an action;
  `(B) a comprehensive description of the alleged violations of this title
  and the regulations promulgated under this title; and
  `(C) a description of the actions to be taken by such person that the
  Secretary considers necessary to enable the person to comply with this
  title and to eliminate the need to commence such civil action.
  `(5) OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD- Prior to the commencement of a civil action
  by the Secretary under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall provide the
  person with an opportunity to present, orally or in writing, information
  concerning the alleged violations or with respect to such proceeding.
  `(6) WRITTEN NOTICE OF WARNING- In determining whether the public interest
  would be adequately served by issuing a written notice of warning in lieu
  of commencing a civil action under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall take
  into account--
  `(A) the compliance history of the person;
  `(B) the magnitude of the violations by the person;
  `(C) whether compliance with this title would be obtained as a result of
  a notice of warning; and
  `(D) whether such violation is of a minor or technical nature.
Prior to commencing any such civil action under paragraph (2), the Secretary,
after considering the the factors described in subparagraphs (A) through (D),
shall provide a written explanation to the establishment concerning the reasons
why the alleged violations of the person warrant commencing a civil action.
  `(b) MODIFICATION- The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit, with
  or without conditions, any civil penalty that is subject to imposition or
  that has been imposed under this section.
`SEC. 1916. CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Any person who intentionally violates any provision
  of section 1903, 1908, 1910 or 1914, or the regulations promulgated
  thereunder, may--
  `(1) be fined in an amount not to exceed $10,000, or imprisoned for not
  more than 1 year, or both; and
  `(2) if such intentional violation involves the intent to defraud, or
  any distribution of any  fish product that is adulterated or misbranded,
  be fined in an amount not to exceed $20,000, or imprisoned for not more
  than 3 years, or both.
  `(b) NOTICE OF WARNING- In the case of one or more minor violations of this
  title or the regulations promulgated under this title, the Secretary may,
  when the Secretary determines that the public interest will be adequately
  served thereby, issue to the person committing such violation a suitable
  written notice of warning. In determining whether the public interest will
  be adequately served by a written notice of warning, the Secretary shall
  consider, among other factors--
  `(1) the compliance history of such person;
  `(2) the magnitude of the violation;
  `(3) whether compliance with this title would likely be obtained as a
  result of such notice; and
  `(4) whether such violation is of a minor or technical nature.
  `(c) NOTICE TO ALLEGED VIOLATOR-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Before any violation under this title is reported by
  the Secretary to any United States attorney for institution of a criminal
  proceeding under this section, the person against whom such proceeding is
  contemplated shall be given reasonable notice of the alleged violation and
  an opportunity to present the views of such person orally or in writing
  with regard to such contemplated proceeding.
  `(2) EXCEPTION- Paragraph (1) shall not apply in those cases where it is
  determined that such notice would significantly interfere with the ability
  of the United States attorney to prosecute any violation. Nothing in this
  title shall be construed as requiring the Secretary to report for criminal
  prosecution violations of this title when the Secretary believes that the
  public interest will be adequately served by the procedures described in
  subsection (b).
  `(d) PUBLICATION- In each case in which a criminal penalty is imposed under
  this section, the Secretary shall publish the name of the offending person,
  the location of the violator, the amount of the fine and the reason for
  the fine.
`SEC. 1917. CARRIERS.
  `No common carrier or contract carrier, including such carriers that are
  fish tender vessels, shall be subject to penalties under this title for the
  receipt, carriage, holding, or delivery, in the usual course of business,
  as a carrier, of any adulterated or misbranded  fish product owned by
  another person, unless the carrier--
  `(1) during the time of such receipt, carriage, holding, or delivery,
  had knowledge or was in possession of facts that would cause a reasonable
  person to believe that the fish products were adulterated or misbranded
  or were otherwise not eligible for transportation under this title; or
  `(2) refuses to furnish on request of the Secretary the name and address
  of the person from whom the carrier received the adulterated or misbranded
  fish product, and copies of all documents pertaining to the delivery of
  such  fish product.
`SEC. 1918. HEARINGS AND SUBPOENAS.
  `(a) ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS- Except in the case of criminal prosecutions
  under section 1916, and as described in section 1908(e) and 1915, the
  Secretary shall afford an opportunity for an administrative hearing,
  under procedures established by the Secretary through regulations, to any
  person claiming to be adversely affected by the action or inaction of the
  Secretary under this title (hereinafter referred to in this section as
  the `claimant'). Such procedures shall include an opportunity to present
  evidence, a right of cross examination, and a right to be heard in person
  or by counsel and through witnesses. After the expiration of 60 days after
  the entry of an order by the Secretary against the claimant under this
  section, the Secretary shall take any appropriate action under such order,
  unless the claimant files for judicial review under subsection (d).
  `(b) SUBPOENAS-
  `(1) AUTHORITY- For the purposes of any hearing or investigation under
  this title, the Secretary may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and
  testimony of witnesses and the production of any documentation or other
  evidence that relates to any matter under investigation or in dispute
  before the Secretary and to administer oaths or affirmations.
  `(2) COMPENSATION- The Secretary shall pay witnesses subpoenaed under this
  subsection customary reasonable fees and transportation expenses.
  `(c) INTERIM RELIEF- The Secretary may take any actions in emergency
  situations determined necessary, during the pendency of the administrative
  hearing process and during the pendency of judicial review (unless the
  court shall order otherwise) to protect the public health, curb persistent
  violations that endanger public health, or enforce other provisions of
  this title or regulations promulgated pursuant to this title.
  `(d) JUDICIAL REVIEW-
  `(1) PETITION- Not later than 60 days after the entry of an order by the
  Secretary, a person adversely affected by such order may obtain judicial
  review through the filing of a petition of judicial review in the United
  States court of appeals for the circuit in which such person resides
  or where the principal place of business of such person is located, by
  filing with the clerk of such court a written petition praying that the
  order of the Secretary be set aside or modified in the manner stated in
  the petition together with a bond in such sum as the court may consider
  appropriate. A copy of the petition shall be transmitted by the clerk to
  the office of the Secretary, and the Secretary shall file in the court
  the record of the proceeding.
  `(2) EVIDENCE- The evidence contained in the record of the proceeding filed
  by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be considered by the court as
  evidence in the case. Judicial review of any such order shall be on the
  record on which the determination and order are based.
  `(3) FINDINGS- The findings of the Secretary concerning questions of fact
  surrounding the order for which a petition for judicial review is filed
  shall be sustained if supported by substantial evidence when considered
  on the record as a whole.
  `(4) ACTION BY COURT- The court may affirm, modify, or set aside the order
  of the Secretary. If the court determines that just and proper disposition
  of the case requires the taking of additional evidence, the court shall
  order the hearing to be reopened for the taking of such evidence in such
  manner and on such terms and conditions as the court determines to be
  appropriate. The Secretary may modify the findings of the Secretary as
  to the facts or make new findings by reason of the additional evidence
  so taken, and the Secretary shall file such modified or new findings,
  and the recommendations of the Secretary, if any, for the modification
  or setting aside of the order of the Secretary, with the return of such
  additional evidence.
  `(5) APPEAL- The judgment of the court affirming or setting aside, in
  whole or in part, any order by the Secretary under this subsection shall
  be final and subject only to review by the Supreme Court of the United
  States on certiorari or certification as provided for in section 1254 of
  title 28 of the United States Code.
`SEC. 1919. OTHER CRIMES.
  `(a) BRIBES-
  `(1) PERSON WHO BRIBES- Any person, or agent or employee of any person,
  who shall give, pay, or offer, directly or indirectly, to any inspector,
  or other officer or employee of the United States or a State, authorized
  to perform any of the duties authorized under this title or under rules
  or regulations of the Secretary promulgated under this title, any money
  or other thing of value, with the intent to influence such inspector,
  officer or employee, in the discharge of any duty of such inspector,
  officer or employee provided for under this title, shall be considered to
  have committed a felony and, on a conviction thereof, shall be punished
  by a fine not less than $5,000 nor more than $10,000 and by imprisonment
  for not less than 1 year nor more than 3 years.
  `(2) PERSON ACCEPTING BRIBES- Any inspector, officer or employee of the
  United States or a State authorized to perform any of the duties authorized
  under this title or under rules or regulations of the Secretary promulgated
  under this title, who shall accept any money, gift, or other thing of value
  from any person, or officers, agents, or employees thereof, given with
  the intent to influence the official action of such inspector, officer,
  or employee, or who shall receive or accept from any person engaged in
  commerce any gift, money, or other thing of value given with any purpose
  or intent whatsoever, shall be considered to have committed a felony and
  shall, on a conviction thereof, be summarily discharged from office and
  shall be punished by a fine not less than $1,000 nor more than $10,000
  and by imprisonment not less than 1 year nor more than 3 years.
  `(b) ASSAULT- Any person who forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, impedes,
  intimidates, or interferes with any inspector or other person while engaged
  in or on account of the performance of the official duties of such inspector
  or other person under this title shall be fined not more than $5,000 or
  imprisoned not more than 3 years, or both. Whoever, in the commission of
  any such acts, uses a deadly or dangerous weapon, shall be fined not more
  than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both. Whoever kills
  any person while engaged in or on account of the performance of the official
  duties of such person under this title shall be punished as provided under
  sections 1111 and 1114 of title 18, United States Code.
`SEC. 1920. REGULATION OF PRODUCTS AND ESTABLISHMENTS.
  `(a) PROCESSING- Each establishment or import business that is subject
  to inspection under this title shall be operated in accordance with such
  sanitary, good processing, quality control, and handling procedures or
  practices as are required by regulations promulgated by the Secretary.
  `(b) STAMP- The Secretary shall by regulation prescribe standards for
  identifying and otherwise marking fish or fish products, or their packages
  or containers, with an official stamp. The Secretary shall ensure that
  the official stamp is available only for fish and fish products that are
  processed or handled in accordance with the requirements of this title.
  `(c) RECORDKEEPING- The Secretary shall promulgate regulations providing
  for the preparation and maintenance of records that specifically describe
  all activities relevant to food safety and sanitation. Any such records
  shall be maintained for such periods of time as the Secretary may by
  regulation prescribe, but such period shall not exceed 2 years unless
  the Secretary directs otherwise for good cause shown. Any duly authorized
  representative of the Secretary shall, at all reasonable times, on notice,
  be given the opportunity to examine and to copy all such records.
`SEC. 1921. RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.
  `(a) RESEARCH- The Secretary shall, in consultation with other Federal
  agencies and with the States, establish priorities for fish and fish products
  safety research, such as test methodology for microbiological and chemical
  contaminants, and the appropriate Federal agencies shall conduct research
  regarding such priorities.
  `(b) EDUCATION GRANTS- The Secretary, acting through the Extension Service,
  shall provide $2,000,000 each fiscal year out of the funds appropriated to
  carry out this title to award grants for the establishment of demonstration
  projects by States, under terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary,
  to assist States in conjunction with the Extension Service in providing
  food safety information and instruction regarding the proper handling,
  storage and preparation of fish and fish products for human consumption.
  `(c) SHELLFISH INDICATOR RESEARCH PROGRAM-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the
  Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall establish and
  administer, for a 5-year period, a shellfish indicator research program to
  develop a system of classification of shellfish harvesting areas based on
  the latest technological advancements in microbiology and epidemiological
  methods. In establishing such a program, the Secretary of Commerce shall
  develop a program that shall include the following activities:
  `(A) ASSESSMENTS- An assessment of commercial shellfish growing areas in
  the United States, including the evaluation of the relationships between
  indicators of fecal contamination and human enteric pathogens.
  `(B) EVALUATIONS- An evaluation of the relationships described in
  subparagraph (A) with respect to potential health hazards associated with
  human consumption.
  `(C) COMPARISONS- A comparison of the current microbiological methods
  used for evaluation of indicator bacteria and human enteric pathogens in
  shellfish and shellfish harvesting areas with new technological methods
  designed for this purpose.
  `(D) EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES- The design of epidemiological studies to relate
  microbiological data, sanitary survey data, and human shellfish consumption
  data to actual hazards to health associated with such consumption.
  `(2) GRANTS- The Secretary of Commerce shall carry out the research program
  established under paragraph (1) by providing assistance in the form of
  grants to eligible applicants.
  `(3) SOLICITATION- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment
  of this title, the Secretary of Commerce shall publish in the Federal
  Register a solicitation of research proposals to carry out the research
  program established under this subsection.
  `(4) AWARDING OF GRANTS- Not later than 90 days after the date of the
  publication of the solicitation under paragraph (3), the Secretary of
  Commerce shall award a grant or grants to eligible applicants to carry
  out the research program established under this subsection.
  `(5) ELIGIBLE APPLICANT- As used in this subsection, the term `eligible
  applicant' means--
  `(A) any public or private institution of higher education;
  `(B) any public or private organization with suitable research capabilities;
  or
  `(C) any consortium of two or more entities referred to in subparagraphs
  (A) and (B).
  `(d) ADVISORY PANEL- The Secretary shall establish an advisory panel,
  consistent with the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act,
  to assist in the development and implementation of the research programs
  under this section. Such advisory panel shall include one representative each
  from the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration,
  the Department of Commerce, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Interstate
  Shellfish Sanitation Conference, appropriate State health authorities
  and a representative from the commercial fish industry and from a public
  interest group.
  `(e) PERIODIC REVIEW- The Secretary shall review the research programs
  established under this section not less than once every 2 years and, on the
  basis of that review, make changes in the administration of the programs
  that are appropriate to carry out more effectively the activities described.
  `(f) RESEARCH STUDY CONCERNING INSPECTIONS OF HARVESTING AND FISH TENDER
  VESSELS-
  `(1) CONDUCT OF STUDY-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of
  this title, the Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Commerce
  shall conduct and complete a study of--
  `(i) the role of fish tender and fish harvesting vessels in safeguarding
  the wholesomeness of fish products;
  `(ii) the potential necessity of requesting the Secretary of Commerce, in
  cooperation with the Coast Guard and the States, to establish procedures
  for the registration of commercial fishing vessels, fish processing vessels,
  and fish tender vessels; and
  `(iii) based on a scientific analysis, the potential necessity of including
  any particular type or class of such vessels in the inspection program
  conducted pursuant to this title.
  `(B) UPDATE- The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Commerce,
  may from time to time update the study conducted under subparagraph (A)
  and shall on completion of such study or after any such updates, immediately
  submit to the Committees on Agriculture and Merchant Marine and Fisheries of
  the House of Representatives and the committees on Agriculture, Nutrition,
  and Forestry and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate,
  the results of such study and the results of any update of such study.
  `(2) CONCLUSIONS- If as a result of the study conducted under paragraph (1)
  or any update of such study the Secretary concludes, in consultation with
  the Secretary of Commerce, that any type or class of vessels not subject to
  inspection should be subject to inspection, the Secretary shall so advise
  the Committees described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1).
  `(g) OTHER RESEARCH- The Secretary shall conduct and support research
  concerning--
  `(1) the testing of methodology for detecting and measuring biological
  and chemical contaminants in fish products;
  `(2) the techniques and procedures utilized for inspecting fish and fish
  products;
  `(3) the sanitation practices for the harvesting, processing, transportation,
  and storage of fish and fish products; and
  `(4) any other matters that may further the purposes of this title.
  `(h) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- The Secretary of Agriculture in cooperation with
  the Secretary of Commerce shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on
  Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture,
  Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, a biennial report  concerning the
  research and education programs authorized and established under this
  section. Such reports shall be made available to appropriate Federal
  and State agencies, the fish industry, and the general public. Each such
  report shall include, with respect to the period for which such report
  was prepared--
  `(1) a description of the research assisted under this section and the
  results of such research;
  `(2) all changes that were made in the administration of the programs
  established under this section subsequent to the date of the previous
  report; and
  `(3) any recommendations for legislative action to improve the effectiveness
  of the inspection program for fish products.
`SEC. 1922. MISCELLANEOUS.
  `(a) PROHIBITION ON COPYING OF OFFICIAL MARKS- No brand manufacturer,
  printer, or other person shall cast, print, lithograph, or otherwise make
  any device containing any official mark or simulation thereof, or any
  label bearing any such mark or simulation, or any form of certificate or
  simulation thereof, except as authorized by the Secretary.
  `(b) COMPLIANCE- No establishment processing fish products for interstate
  commerce or otherwise subject to this title shall process any fish product
  except in compliance with this title.
  `(c) ENTRY OF ARTICLES INTO ESTABLISHMENTS- The Secretary may limit the
  entry of fish products and other materials into any establishment, under
  such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe to assure that permitting
  the entry of such products into such establishments will be consistent
  with the purposes of this title.
  `(d) CONDEMNATION OF SEIZURE- This title shall not be construed to limit the
  authority of the Secretary to condemn or seize property that is conferred
  by provisions of other laws.
  `(e) ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION, CONDEMNATION-
  `(1) ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION- When any fish product is found by any
  authorized representative of the Secretary on any premises where it
  is held for purposes of, or during or after distribution in, commerce
  or otherwise subject to the requirements of this title, and there is
  reason to believe that any such product is adulterated or misbranded
  and is capable of use as human food, or that it has not been inspected,
  in violation of the provisions of this title or any other Federal law or
  the laws of any State or Territory, or the District of Columbia, or that
  it has been or is intended to be, distributed in violation of any such
  provisions, it may be detained by such representative for a period of not
  to exceed 20 days, pending notification of any Federal, State, or other
  governmental authorities having jurisdiction over such product, and shall
  not be moved by any person, from the place at which it is located when so
  detained, until released by such representative. All official marks may
  be required by such representative to be removed from such product before
  it is released unless it appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary that
  the  product is eligible to retain such marks.
  `(2) CONDEMNATION-
  `(A) LIBEL OF INFORMATION; JURISDICTION- Any fish product that is being
  transported in commerce or otherwise subject to the requirements of
  this title, or that is held for sale in the United States after such
  transportation, and that--
  `(i) is or has been processed, sold, transported, or otherwise distributed
  or offered or received for distribution in violation of this title;
  `(ii) is capable of use as human food and is adulterated or misbranded; or
  `(iii) in any other manner is in violation of this title;
shall be liable to be proceeded against and seized and condemned at any time,
on a libel of information in any United States district court or other proper
court as provided for in this title within the jurisdiction of which the
product is found.
  `(B) DISPOSAL- If a fish product is condemned it shall, after the entry
  of the decree of condemnation--
  `(i) be distributed in accordance with regulations promulgated by the
  Secretary; or
  `(ii) be disposed of by destruction or sale as the court may direct and
  the proceeds, if sold, less the court costs and fees, and storage and other
  proper expenses, shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States, but
  such product shall not be sold contrary to the provisions of this title,
  or the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is sold.
On the execution and delivery of a good and sufficient bond conditioned
that the fish product shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of contrary to
this title, or the laws of the jurisdiction in which the disposal is made,
the court may direct that such product be delivered to the owner thereof
subject to such supervision by authorized representatives of the Secretary
as is necessary to insure compliance with the applicable laws.
  `(C) COURT COSTS AND FEES- When a decree of condemnation is entered against
  a fish product and such product is released under bond, or destroyed, court
  costs and fees, and storage and other proper expenses shall be awarded
  against the person, if any, intervening as claimant of the fish product.
  `(D) PROCEEDINGS- The proceedings in libel cases under this subsection
  shall conform, as nearly as may be, to the proceedings in admiralty,
  except that either party may demand a trial by jury of any issue of fact
  joined in any case, and all such proceedings shall be at the suit of and
  in the name of the United States.
  `(3) ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT- For the efficient administration and
  enforcement of this title, the provisions (including penalties) of sections
  46, 48, 49, and 50 of title 15, United States Code (except subsections (c)
  through (h) of section 46 and the last paragraph of section 49 of such title)
  and the provision of section 409l of title 47, United States Code, shall
  be applicable to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary
  in administering and enforcing the provisions of this title and to any
  person with respect to whom such authority is exercised. The Secretary,
  in person or by such agents as the Secretary may designate, may prosecute
  any inquiry necessary to carry out the duties of the Secretary under this
  title, and the powers conferred by sections 49 and 50 of title 15, United
  States Code, on the district courts of the United States may be exercised
  for the purposes of this title.
  `(f) JURISDICTION- Except as otherwise provided in this title, the United
  States district courts, the District Court of Guam, the District Court of
  the Virgin Islands, the highest court of American Samoa, and the United
  States courts of the other territories, are vested with jurisdiction
  specifically to enforce, and to prevent and restrain violations of, this
  title and shall have jurisdiction in all other kinds of cases arising under
  this title. All proceedings for the enforcement or to restrain violations
  of this title shall be by and in the name of the United States.
  `(g) SEVERABILITY- If any provision of this title, or the application of
  such provision to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional
  or otherwise invalid, the remainder of this title, and the application
  of the provisions of such to any person or circumstance shall not be
  affected thereby.
`SEC. 1923. REGULATIONS.
  `(a) ISSUANCE- The Secretary shall issue regulations necessary or appropriate
  to carry out this title in accordance with the informal notice and prior
  public comment requirements of section 553 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(b) COPY AND JUSTIFICATION- Not later than 5 days prior to issuing of
  any regulation under subsection (a), the Secretary shall provide to
  the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the
  Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a copy of
  the regulation and a statement in justification of the regulation.
`SEC. 1924. INTERAGENCY COOPERATION.
  `The Secretary may, by agreement with the head of any Federal agency,
  utilize on a reimbursable basis or otherwise, the personnel, services,
  and facilities of any other department or agency of the United States in
  the performance of the duties of the Secretary under this title.
`SEC. 1925. EXEMPTION FROM FEDERAL FOOD, DRUG, AND COSMETIC ACT.
  `The inspection, sampling or regulation of fish products, and the handling,
  processing, storage, or transportation of fish products, shall be exempt from
  the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321
  et seq.) to the extent that this title applies to such fish products, or
  the handling, processing, storage, or transportation of fish products,
  except that this title shall not diminish any authority conferred by
  the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act prior to the implementation or
  enforcement of this title under section 5 of the Fish Safety Act of 1990.
`SEC. 1926. COST OF INSPECTION, OVERTIME.
  `The cost of inspections rendered under the requirements of this title,
  shall be borne by the United States, except that the cost of overtime work
  for overtime hours as defined by the Secretary at any given establishment,
  or for any required holiday work at an establishment, shall be borne by the
  establishment at such rates as the Secretary may determine appropriate. Sums
  received by the Secretary in reimbursement for sums paid out by the Secretary
  for such premium pay work shall be available without fiscal year limitation
  to carry out this title.
`SEC. 1927. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `(a) INSPECTION PROGRAM- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
  out this title, not to exceed $14,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, $40,000,000
  for fiscal year 1992, $80,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $100,000,000
  in each of the fiscal years 1994 and 1995.
  `(b) RESEARCH PROGRAMS AUTHORIZATION- Of the amounts appropriated under
  subsection (a), the Secretary shall use not to exceed $5,000,000 in each of
  the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993, to carry out the research programs
  under section 1921 of this title.
  `(c) EARMARKING OF FUNDS-
  `(1) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION- Of the amount appropriated under
  subsection (a) in a fiscal year, the Secretary shall ensure that the Food
  and Drug Administration shall receive--
  `(A) 80 percent of such amount in fiscal year 1991;
  `(B) 60 percent of such amount in fiscal year 1992;
  `(C) 40 percent of such amount in fiscal year 1993; and
  `(D) 20 percent of such amount in each of the fiscal years 1994 and 1995.
  `(2) DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE- Of the amounts appropriated under subsection
  (a), the Secretary shall ensure that the Department of Commerce shall
  receive 10 percent of such amounts in each of the fiscal years 1991 through
  1995 to carry out its research and classification functions under this title.
`SEC. 1928. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  `This title shall become effective on the date of enactment of this title.'.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE ACT OF MAY 8, 1914.
  (a) EXTENSION SERVICE- Section 2 of the Act of May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 373,
  chapter 79; 7 U.S.C. 342), is amended by inserting `food safety,' after
  `home economics,'.
  (b) EDUCATION- Section 3 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 343) is amended by adding
  at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(g) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years
  1991 through 1995, $750,000 for additional programs to be administered by the
  Secretary of Agriculture through the Extension Service to disseminate food
  safety information, publications, and instruction to consumers, restaurant
  food handlers, schools and other persons concerning the proper handling,
  storage and preparation of fish products.'.
SEC. 5. IMPLEMENTATION BY SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this section or in title XIX
  of the Food Security Act of 1985 (as added by section 3), the Secretary of
  Agriculture shall, not later than 18 months after the Commissioner of Food
  and Drugs has issued the initial set of final regulations under section
  6, develop and implement by regulation the comprehensive fish product
  inspection program required under such title XIX. Such regulations issued
  by the Secretary of Agriculture shall include regulations--
  (1) establishing inspection procedures;
  (2) setting forth procedures for training inspectors;
  (3) regarding the certification of establishments and importers;
  (4) for inspecting imported fish products;
  (5) authorizing State programs; and
  (6) establishing labeling requirements and procedures for the approval of
  labels and labeling in accordance with the program established under the
  amendment made by section 3.
  (b) PHASE-IN OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS-
  (1) EFFECT OF CURRENT REGULATIONS- The provisions of law in effect on
  the date of enactment of this Act relating to fish product safety, fish
  product labeling, fish product inspection, and related matters, that are
  relevant to the regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary
  of Commerce, or the Food and Drug Administration in effect on such date
  concerning such matters, shall remain in effect until such regulations
  are revoked, superseded, amended, or modified by regulations promulgated
  under title XIX of the Food Security Act of 1985 (as added by section 3).
  (2) TRANSITION- The Secretary of Agriculture shall issue regulations as
  the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate, in consultation with
  the Secretary of Commerce and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, that
  provide for an orderly transition to the program required under title
  XIX of the Food Security Act of 1985 (as added by section 3). During such
  transition and phase-in period, the Secretary of Agriculture may implement
  any aspects of such program prior to the implementation of other aspects
  of such program and may require the implementation of such aspects in
  certain geographic areas prior to such implementation in other areas.
SEC. 6. IMPLEMENTATION BY THE COMMISSIONER OF FOOD AND DRUGS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this section or in title XIX
  of the Food Security Act of 1985 (as added by section 3), the Commissioner
  of Food and Drugs, in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture,
  shall not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act,
  develop and implement a program to carry out and administer such title XIX.
  (b) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS-
  (1) CONTRACT WITH NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES- Not later than 30 days
  after the date of enactment of title XIX of the Food Security Act of 1985
  (as added by section 3), the Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall enter
  into contracts with the National Academy of Sciences to identify chemical
  and microbiological contaminants, parasites, toxins and other harmful
  substances that are most likely to be found in fish and fish products and
  that are most likely to cause fish and fish products to be adulterated.
  (2) REPORT- Not later than 6 months after the date of the execution of the
  contract under paragraph (1), the National Academy of Sciences shall prepare
  and submit, to the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and
  Human Services, the Secretary of Commerce, the Committee on Agriculture of
  the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
  and Forestry of the Senate, a report describing the results of the research
  conducted under paragraph (1).
  (3) REGULATIONS-
  (A) PUBLICATION OF TOLERANCES BASED ON REPORT- Not later than 6 months
  after receiving the report under paragraph (2), the Commissioner of Food
  and Drugs shall publish an initial set of proposed regulations that shall
  include tolerances for those chemical and microbiological contaminants,
  parasites, toxins and other harmful substances that under such report are
  found in fish and fish products and that are most likely to cause fish
  and fish products to be adulterated.
  (B) FINAL REGULATIONS- Not later than 6 months after the date on which the
  Commissioner issues the proposed regulations under subparagraph (A), the
  Commissioner shall promulgate final regulations. Such final regulations shall
  contain a timetable for the issuance of additional rules and regulations.
SEC. 7. IMPLEMENTATION BY THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE.
  Except as otherwise provided in this section or in title XIX of the Food
  Security Act of 1985 (as added by section 3), the Secretary of Commerce
  in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture shall, not later than
  2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, develop and implement a
  program to carry out the requirements of such title XIX. Not later than
  18 months after such date of enactment, the Secretary of Commerce shall
  issue proposed regulations.
S 2924 PCS1S----2
S 2924 PCS1S----3
S 2924 PCS1S----4
S 2924 PCS1S----5
S 2924 PCS1S----6