S 2743 RFH
102d CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 2743
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
October 9, 1992
Referred jointly to the Committees on Foreign Affairs, Banking, Finance and
Urban Affairs, and Public Works and Transportation
AN ACT
To deter and punish aggression against the newly independent countries of
the defunct Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and to promote human
rights within the newly constituted Republic of Yugoslavia.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as `The Yugoslavia Sanctions Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds--
  (1) Yugoslavia, a state in existence since December 1, 1918, is dissolved;
  (2) Croatia and Bosnia-Hercegovina have voted in democratic elections to
  be independent nations and have achieved international recognition;
  (3) Serbia and Montenegro have constituted themselves as the Federal Republic
  of Yugoslavia, a state which has not achieved international recognition,
  and which is not the successor state to the dissolved Socialist Federal
  Republic of Yugoslavia;
  (4) the newly constituted state of Yugoslavia is engaged in a war of
  aggression against Bosnia-Hercegovina;
  (5) acting through government controlled militias, paramilitary groups,
  and the Yugoslav Federal Army, the newly constituted state of Yugoslavia
  is killing thousands of residents of Bosnia-Hercegovina, is driving
  hundreds of thousands of residents of Bosnia-Hercegovina from their homes,
  is destroying the cities and villages of Bosnia-Hercegovina, including
  such culturally and historically important places as Sarajevo and Mostar,
  and is interfering with humanitarian relief efforts in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
  (6) Serbia and Montenegro, prior to forming the new state of Yugoslavia,
  had engaged in a war of aggression against Croatia; and the new state of
  Yugoslavia, acting through government controlled militias and paramilitary
  groups, continues to occupy illegally, territory of the sovereign nation
  of Croatia;
  (7) two million Albanians in the province of Kosova have been denied many
  basic human rights, are subject to Serbian-imposed martial law, have been
  denied illegally their right to self-government, and have been subject to
  violence and killings by the Serbian authorities; and
  (8) the international boundaries between the independent countries of the
  Former Yugoslavia are the same as the internal borders among the constituent
  republics of the Former Yugoslavia as specified in the 1974 Yugoslav Federal
  Constitution (except with regard to the border between Serbia and Montenegro)
  and cannot be altered without the consent of all countries concerned.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  As used hereinafter in this Act--
  (a) `Yugoslavia' shall mean the Federation of Montenegro and Serbia
  constituted on April 27, 1992, a state that has not been granted
  international recognition and that is not the successor to the Former
  Yugoslavia; and
  (b) `Former Yugoslavia' shall mean the state established on December 1, 1918,
  and last formally known as the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
SEC. 4. RESTRICTION ON ASSISTANCE TO YUGOSLAVIA.
  (a) RESTRICTION ON ASSISTANCE- Unless the conditions of section 7(a) are
  certified by the President to have been met, no United States assistance
  (including funds appropriated before the date of enactment of this Act)
  may be furnished to Yugoslavia.
  (b) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this section, the term `United States
  assistance' means assistance of any kind that is provided by grant, loan,
  lease, credit, guaranty, or insurance, or by any other means, by any agency
  or instrumentality of the United States Government to any foreign country,
  including--
  (1) assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (including programs
  under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of such Act);
  (2) sales, credits, and guaranties under the Arms Export Control Act;
  (3) sales under title I or III and donations under title II of the
  Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 of nonfood
  commodities;
  (4) other financing programs of the Commodity Credit Corporation for export
  sales of nonfood commodities; and
  (5) financing under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945.
SEC. 5. SUSPENSION OF MULTINATIONAL ASSISTANCE.
  Unless the conditions of section 7(a) are certified by the President
  to have been met, the Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the
  United States executive directors of the International Monetary Fund,
  the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European
  Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the International Development
  Association to vote against any loan or other utilization of the funds of
  their respective institutions to Yugoslavia.
SEC. 6. SUSPENSION OF AIR TRAVEL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Unless the conditions of section 7(a) are certified by
  the President to have been met--
  (1) the President shall direct the Secretary of Transportation to revoke
  the right of any air carrier designated by the Government of the Former
  Yugoslavia under the air transportation agreement between the United States
  and the Former Yugoslavia to provide service to Yugoslavia.
  (2) the Secretary of State shall terminate so much of that agreement as
  relates to Yugoslavia in accordance with the provisions of that agreement;
  (3) upon termination of those provisions, the Secretary of Transportation
  shall prohibit any aircraft of a foreign air carrier owned, directly or
  indirectly, by Yugoslavia from engaging in air transportation with respect
  to the United States; and
  (4) the Secretary of Transportation shall provide for such exceptions from
  the prohibition contained in paragraph (3) as the Secretary considers
  necessary to provide for emergencies in which the safety of an aircraft
  or its crew or passengers is threatened.
  (b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the terms `aircraft', `air
  transportation', and `foreign air carrier' have meanings given those terms
  in section 101 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1301).
SEC. 7. CONDITIONS.
  (a) The conditions referred to in sections 4, 5, and 6 of this Act are--
  (1) that Yugoslavia is not waging a war of military aggression against
  any other country;
  (2) that Yugoslavia is not supporting directly or indirectly, any military
  unit, militia, or paramilitary organization in any other country;
  (3) that Yugoslavia is not occupying any territory of another country and
  is not assisting forces occupying the territory of another country;
  (4) that Yugoslavia recognizes as international borders the borders
  of Croatia, Bosnia-Hercegovina, and Macedonia as specified in the 1974
  Yugoslav Federal Constitution and as existed on December 31, 1984;
  (5) that Yugoslavia or forces loyal to or controlled by Yugoslavia are
  not interfering with United Nations peacekeeping operations or with
  international observer missions or with humanitarian relief efforts; and
  (6) that Yugoslavia is not engaged in a pattern of systematic violations
  of human rights within its borders.
  (b) Whenever the President determines that the conditions of subsection
  (a) have been met, he shall so certify in writing to the Speaker of the
  House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign
  Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 8. POLICY ON SUCCESSION.
  The independent countries of the Former Yugoslavia shall be severally
  and collectively the heirs to the assets and liabilities of the Former
  Yugoslavia. Treaties and other international agreements between the
  United States and the Former Yugoslavia shall be deemed applicable to the
  independent countries of the Former Yugoslavia, except where the President
  determines otherwise.
SEC. 9. POLICY ON RECOGNITION.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the President should not recognize
  Yugoslavia until it has met the conditions in section 6, and that the
  President should enter into negotiations with the independent countries of
  the Former Yugoslavia to insure an equitable distribution of the diplomatic
  property in the United States among all the successor states.
SEC. 10. MULTILATERAL SANCTIONS.
  The Congress urges the President to negotiate comprehensive multilateral
  sanctions pursuant to the provisions of chapter 7 of the United Nations
  Charter, including an embargo on the shipment of oil, against Yugoslavia
  as long as Yugoslavia is supporting acts of military aggression against
  Bosnia-Hercegovina. The Congress further urges the President to oppose
  Yugoslavia's aggression in all appropriate international fora.
SEC. 11. SANCTIONS ON OTHER COUNTRIES OF THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA.
  The President shall apply the sanctions contained in sections 4, 5,
  and 6 to any other independent country of the Former Yugoslavia which
  he determines is engaged, directly or indirectly, in military aggression
  against a neighbor for the purpose of changing its boundaries.
SEC. 12. HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the President should take steps so that
  adequate humanitarian assistance reaches needy people in Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Passed the Senate May 21 (legislative day, March 26), 1992.
Attest:
WALTER J. STEWART,
Secretary.