Calendar No. 464
102d CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 2733
[Report No. 102-282]
A BILL
To improve the regulation of Government-sponsored enterprises.
May 15, 1992
Read twice and ordered to be placed on the calendar
S 2733 PCS
Calendar No. 464
102d CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 2733
[Report No. 102-282]
To improve the regulation of Government-sponsored enterprises.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 15, 1992
Mr. RIEGLE, from the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs,
reported, under the authority of the order of the Senate of May 14 (legislative
day, March 26), 1992, the following original bill; which was read twice and
placed on the calendar
A BILL
To improve the regulation of Government-sponsored enterprises.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Federal Housing Enterprises
  Regulatory Reform Act of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Effective date.
TITLE I--SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF THE ENTERPRISES
Sec. 101. Establishment of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.
Sec. 102. Duties of Director.
Sec. 103. Authority of Director.
Sec. 104. Personnel.
Sec. 105. Funding.
Sec. 106. Information, records, and meetings.
Sec. 107. Regulations.
Sec. 108. Savings provision.
Sec. 109. Annual report of the Director.
Sec. 110. Financial reports and examinations.
Sec. 111. Equal opportunity in solicitation of contracts.
Sec. 112. Conforming amendment.
Sec. 113. Amendment to Department of Housing and Urban Development Act.
Sec.]114. Protection of confidential information.
Sec. 115. Limitation on subsequent employment.
Sec. 116. Protecting taxpayers against liability for the enterprises.
TITLE II--REQUIRED CAPITAL LEVELS FOR THE ENTERPRISES AND SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT
POWERS
Sec. 201. Risk-based capital levels.
Sec. 202. Minimum capital levels.
Sec. 203. Critical capital levels.
Sec. 204. Capital classifications.
Sec. 205. Supervisory actions applicable to enterprises.
Sec. 206. Changes in the classification of an enterprise in connection with
a capital restoration plan.
Sec. 207. Mandatory appointment of conservator for critically undercapitalized
enterprises.
Sec. 208. Capital restoration plans.
Sec. 209. Notice and hearing.
Sec. 210. Judicial review of Director action.
Sec. 211. Ratings.
Sec. 212. Capital.
TITLE III--ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
Sec. 301. Cease-and-desist proceedings.
Sec. 302. Temporary cease-and-desist orders.
Sec. 303. Hearings and judicial review.
Sec. 304. Jurisdiction and enforcement.
Sec. 305. Civil money penalties.
Sec. 306. Notice under this title after separation from service.
Sec. 307. Private rights of action.
Sec. 308. Subpoena power.
Sec. 309. Public disclosure of final orders and agreements.
TITLE IV--CONSERVATORSHIP
Sec. 401. Appointment of conservator.
Sec. 402. Powers of a conservator.
Sec. 403. Termination of conservatorship.
Sec. 404. Liability protection.
Sec. 405. Enforcement of contracts.
TITLE V--HOUSING
Sec. 501. General authority.
Sec. 502. Low- and moderate-income housing goal.
Sec. 503. Special affordable housing goal.
Sec. 504. Central city, rural area, and other underserved areas housing goal.
Sec. 505. Other requirements.
Sec. 506. Monitoring compliance with housing goals.
Sec. 507. Data collection and reporting requirements for the enterprises.
Sec. 508. Annual report of the Director.
Sec. 509. Compliance.
Sec. 510. Advisory council.
Sec. 511. Geographic distribution.
Sec. 512. Multifamily  mortgage activities.
Sec. 513. Board of Directors qualifications.
Sec. 514. Fair housing.
Sec. 515. Prohibition on public disclosure of proprietary information.
TITLE VI--CHARTER ACT AMENDMENTS
Sec. 601. Amendments to the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act.
Sec. 602. Amendments to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act.
TITLE VII--REGULATION OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM
Sec. 701. Primacy of financial safety and soundness for Federal Housing
Finance Board.
Sec. 702. Study regarding Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Sec. 703. Reports of Federal Home Loan Banks.
Sec. 704. Reports of Federal Home Loan Bank members.
Sec. 705. Full-time status of FHFB members.
TITLE VIII--STUDY OF NATIONAL CONSUMER COOPERATIVE BANK
Sec. 801. Study of National Consumer Cooperative Bank.
TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS
Subtitle A--Miscellaneous
Sec. 901. Privatization study.
Sec. 902. Housing assistance in Jefferson County, Texas.
Sec. 903. Applicability of shelter plus care.
Sec. 904. Adjustable rate mortgage caps.
Sec. 905. Community development authority of banks.
Subtitle B--Presidential Insurance Commission
Sec. 911. Short title.
Sec. 912. Findings.
Sec. 913. Establishment.
Sec. 914. Duties of the Commission.
Sec. 915. Membership and compensation.
Sec. 916. Powers of Commission.
Sec. 917. Staff of Commission; experts and consultants.
Sec. 918. Report.
Sec. 919. Termination.
Sec. 920. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle C--Secondary Market for Commercial Mortgage Loans
Sec. 921. Short title.
Sec. 922. Purpose.
Sec. 923. Findings.
Sec. 924. Study by the Treasury, CBO, and SEC.
Sec. 925. Report and study by the RTC.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation (as set forth in section 301 of the Federal National
  Mortgage Association Charter Act and section 301 of the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation Act), and the Federal Home Loan Banks have important
  public purposes;
  (2) because the continued ability of the Federal National Mortgage
  Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to accomplish
  their public purposes is important to providing housing in the United
  States and the health of the Nation's economy, more effective Federal
  regulation is needed to reduce the risk of failure of the enterprises;
  (3) given their current operating procedures, the Federal National Mortgage
  Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pose a low
  financial risk to the Federal Government;
  (4) the securities issued by such enterprises are not backed by the full
  faith and credit of the United States;
  (5) the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation have an affirmative obligation to facilitate the
  financing of affordable housing for low- and moderate-income families in
  a manner consistent with their overall public purposes, while maintaining
  a strong financial condition and a reasonable economic return; and
  (6) the Federal Home Loan Bank Act should be amended to emphasize that
  providing for financial safety and soundness is the primary mission of
  the Federal Housing Finance Board.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this Act:
  (1) AFFILIATE- Except as provided by the Director, the term `affiliate'
  means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common
  control with an enterprise.
  (2) CAPITAL DISTRIBUTION-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The term `capital distribution' means--
  (i) a dividend or other distribution in cash or in kind made with respect
  to any shares of or other ownership interest in an enterprise, except a
  dividend consisting only of shares of the enterprise;
  (ii) a payment made by an enterprise to repurchase, redeem, retire, or
  otherwise acquire any of its shares, including any extension of credit
  made to finance an acquisition by the enterprise of such shares; or
  (iii) a transaction that the Director determines by order or regulation
  to be in substance the distribution of capital.
  (B) EXCEPTION- A payment made by an enterprise to repurchase its shares
  for the purpose of fulfilling an enterprise obligation under an employee
  stock ownership plan that is qualified under section 401 of the Internal
  Revenue Code shall not be considered a capital distribution.
  (3) DIRECTOR- The term `Director' means the Director of the Office of
  Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight of the Department of Housing and
  Urban Development.
  (4) ENTERPRISE- The term `enterprise' means--
  (A) the Federal National Mortgage Association and any affiliate thereof; and
  (B) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any affiliate thereof.
  (5) EXECUTIVE OFFICER- The term `executive officer' means, with respect
  to an enterprise, the chairman of the board of directors, chief executive
  officer, chief financial officer, president, vice chairman, any executive
  vice president, and any senior vice president in charge of a principal
  business unit, division, or function.
  (6) LOW INCOME- The term `low income' means--
  (A) in the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of 80 percent
  of area median income; or
  (B) in the case of rental units, income not in excess of 80 percent of
  area median income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families,
  as determined by the Secretary.
  (7) MODERATE INCOME- The term `moderate income' means--
  (A) in the case of owner-occupied units, income not in excess of area
  median income; or
  (B) in the case of rental units, income not in excess of area median
  income, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, as determined
  by the Secretary.
  (8) MORTGAGE PURCHASES- The term `mortgage purchases' includes mortgages
  purchased for portfolio or securitization.
  (9) NEW PROGRAM- The term `new program' means any product or program
  for the purchasing, servicing, selling, lending on the security of, or
  otherwise dealing in, conventional mortgages that--
  (A) is significantly different from products or programs that have been
  approved under this Act or that were approved or engaged in by an enterprise
  before the effective date of this Act, or
  (B) represents an expansion, in terms of the dollar volume or number of
  mortgages or securities involved, of products or programs above limits
  expressly contained in any prior approval.
  (10) OFFICE- The term `Office' means the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise
  Oversight of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
  (11) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Housing and
  Urban Development.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  Except where otherwise specified, the effective date of this Act shall be
  the date of the initial appointment of the Director.
TITLE I--SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF THE ENTERPRISES
SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF FEDERAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE OVERSIGHT.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Department of Housing and
  Urban Development an Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.
  (b) DIRECTOR-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Office shall be under the management of a Director who
  shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
  of the Senate, from among individuals who--
  (A) are citizens of the United States,
  (B) have a demonstrated understanding of financial management or oversight,
  and
  (C) have a demonstrated understanding of mortgage security markets and
  housing finance.
  (2) LIMITATION- An individual may not be appointed as Director if the
  individual has served as an executive officer or director of an enterprise
  at any time during the 18-month period preceding the nomination of such
  individual.
  (3) COMPENSATION- The Director shall be compensated as prescribed in
  section 5313 of title 5, United States Code.
  (4) TERM- The Director shall be appointed for a term of 5 years.
  (5) VACANCY- A vacancy in the position of Director shall be filled in the
  same manner as the original appointment.
  (6) SERVICE AFTER THE END OF THE TERM- A Director may serve after the
  expiration of the term for which the Director was appointed until a
  successor has been appointed.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of
  enactment of this Act.
SEC. 102. DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
  (a) PRIMARY DUTY- The primary duty of the Director shall be to ensure
  that the enterprises are adequately capitalized and operating safely in
  accordance with this Act and the charter Acts.
  (b) OTHER DUTIES- The Director shall also ensure that the enterprises
  carry out the public purposes of their respective charter Acts.
SEC. 103. AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.
  (a) EXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY- The Director is authorized, without the review
  or approval of the Secretary, to--
  (1) issue regulations concerning the financial health and security of the
  enterprises, including the establishment of risk-based capital standards;
  (2) develop and propose to the Secretary any other regulations necessary
  and proper to carry out this Act and ensure that the purposes of the
  charter Acts are accomplished;
  (3) establish annual budgets, financial reports, and annual assessments
  for the costs of the Office;
  (4) examine each enterprise's financial and operating condition;
  (5) determine capital levels of the enterprises;
  (6) undertake administrative and enforcement actions under this Act;
  (7) appoint conservators for the enterprises;
  (8) monitor and enforce compliance with housing goals under this Act;
  (9) conduct research and financial analysis;
  (10) submit annual and other reports required under this Act;
  (11) bring and defend against claims and actions without the approval,
  direction, or control of the Attorney General; and
  (12) perform such other functions as are necessary to carry out this Act
  and ensure that the purposes of the charter Acts are accomplished.
  (b) AUTHORITY SUBJECT TO THE SECRETARY'S REVIEW- Except as provided
  in subsection (a), the Director may issue any regulations necessary to
  carry out this Act and ensure that the purposes of the charter Acts are
  accomplished, including regulations--
  (1) concerning the housing finance missions of the enterprises, including
  the affordable housing and other housing provisions under title V of this
  Act; and
  (2) to establish and monitor compliance with fair lending requirements;
subject to the Secretary's review and approval.
  (c) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY- The Director may delegate to employees of
  the Office any of the functions, powers, and duties of the Director,
  as the Director considers appropriate.
  (d) INDEPENDENCE IN PROVIDING INFORMATION TO CONGRESS- The Director is
  not required to obtain the prior approval, comment, or review of any
  officer or agency of the United States before submitting to the Congress
  any recommendations, testimony, or comments if such submissions include
  a statement indicating that the views expressed therein are those of the
  Director and do not necessarily represent the views of the Secretary or
  the President.
  (e) APPROVAL OF NEW PROGRAMS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The introduction of a new program by an enterprise pursuant
  to its charter Act shall be subject to prior approval by both the Secretary
  and the Director, except as provided in paragraph (5).
  (2) APPROVAL PROCEDURE- Not later than 45 days after submission of the
  request for approval of a new program or notice under paragraph (5)(A),
  the Secretary and the Director shall approve the new program or transmit
  to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
  and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House
  of Representatives a report explaining why the new program has not been
  approved.  The 45-day period may be extended for one additional 15-day
  period if the Secretary or the Director requests additional information
  from the enterprise, but the 45-day period may not be extended for any
  other reason. If the Secretary and the Director fail to transmit the
  report within the 45-day period or 60-day period, as the case may be,
  the enterprise may proceed as if the new program had been approved.
  (3) APPROVAL BY THE DIRECTOR-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The Director shall approve a new program unless the Director
  determines that the program would risk significant deterioration of the
  financial condition of the enterprise.
  (B) UNDERCAPITALIZED INSTITUTIONS- If an enterprise is undercapitalized,
  the Director shall approve a new program only if the Director determines
  that the program will likely improve or not worsen the financial and
  capital condition of the enterprise.
  (4) APPROVAL BY THE SECRETARY- The Secretary shall approve a new program
  unless the Secretary determines that the program is not authorized by the
  relevant charter Act or would have a deleterious effect on housing finance.
  (5) SPECIAL APPROVAL PROCEDURE FOR AN ADEQUATELY CAPITALIZED ENTERPRISE-
  (A) NOTICE- If an adequately capitalized enterprise plans to introduce a new
  program, it shall submit a written notice to the Secretary and the Director.
  (B) APPROVAL BY THE DIRECTOR- A new program submitted by an enterprise
  in accordance with subparagraph (A) shall not be subject to approval by
  the Director.
  (C) APPROVAL BY THE SECRETARY- Within 20 business days after submission of
  the notice, the new program shall be deemed approved unless the Secretary
  determines that there is a substantial probability that the program is not
  authorized by the relevant charter Act or would have a deleterious effect on
  housing finance, in which case the Secretary shall inform the enterprise,
  by written notice, that the new program has not been approved under this
  paragraph, and the procedures of paragraph (2) shall apply.
  (D) EFFECTIVE DATE- This paragraph shall become effective on the date
  final regulations establishing the risk-based capital test are issued
  under section 201(e).
  (E) TRANSITION PERIOD- For the purposes of this paragraph, the capital
  classification of an enterprise shall be determined without regard to
  section 204(c).
  (6) HEARING- If the Secretary or the Director does not approve a new
  program, the Secretary or the Director, as the case may be, shall provide
  the enterprise with a timely opportunity to review and supplement the
  administrative record in an administrative hearing.
SEC. 104. PERSONNEL.
  (a) IN GENERAL-
  (1) DIRECTOR'S POWERS- The Director may appoint and fix the compensation of
  employees and agents necessary to carry out the functions of the Director
  and the Office.
  (2) COMPENSATION-
  (A) EXCLUSION FROM GENERAL SCHEDULE PAY RATES- Employees other than the
  Director may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and
  subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to
  classification and General Schedule pay rates.
  (B) COMPARABILITY OF COMPENSATION WITH FEDERAL BANK REGULATORY AGENCIES-
  In fixing and directing compensation under paragraph (1), the Director
  shall consult with, and maintain comparability with compensation at,
  the Federal bank regulatory agencies.
  (b) DEPUTY DIRECTOR-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Office shall have a Deputy Director who shall be
  appointed by the Director from among individuals who--
  (A) are citizens of the United States,
  (B) have a demonstrated understanding of financial management or oversight,
  and
  (C) have a demonstrated understanding of mortgage security markets and
  housing finance.
  (2) LIMITATION- An individual may not be appointed as Deputy Director
  if the individual has served as an executive officer or director of an
  enterprise at any time during the 18-month period immediately preceding
  the nomination of such individual.
  (3) POWERS, FUNCTIONS, AND DUTIES- The Deputy Director shall--
  (A) have such powers, functions, and duties as the Director shall prescribe,
  and
  (B) serve as acting Director in the event of the death, resignation,
  sickness, or absence of the Director, until the return of the Director or
  the appointment of a successor under section 101.
  (c) FEDERAL AGENCIES-
  (1) IN GENERAL- With the consent of any executive agency, independent
  agency, or department, the Director may use information, services, staff,
  and facilities of such agency or department on a reimbursable basis,
  in carrying out the duties of the Office.
  (2) DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT- The Director shall reimburse
  the Department of Housing and Urban Development for reasonable costs incurred
  by the Department that are directly related to the operations of the Office.
  (d) OUTSIDE EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- Notwithstanding any provision of law
  limiting pay or compensation, the Director may appoint and compensate such
  outside experts and consultants as the Director determines necessary to
  assist the work of the Office.
  (e) EQUAL OPPORTUNITY REPORT- Not later than 180 days after the effective
  date of this Act, the Director shall submit to the Congress a report
  containing--
  (1) a complete description of the equal opportunity, affirmative action,
  and minority business enterprise utilization programs of the Office; and
  (2) such recommendations for administrative and legislative action as the
  Director may determine to be appropriate to carry out such programs.
SEC. 105. FUNDING.
  (a) ANNUAL ASSESSMENT- The Director shall levy an annual assessment on
  the enterprises sufficient to pay for the estimated expenses of the Office.
  (b) ALLOCATION OF ANNUAL ASSESSMENT TO THE ENTERPRISES-
  (1) AMOUNT OF PAYMENT- Each enterprise shall pay to the Director a proportion
  of the annual assessment made pursuant to subsection (a) that bears the
  same ratio to the total annual assessment that the total assets of each
  enterprise bears to the total assets of both enterprises.
  (2) TIMING OF PAYMENT- The annual assessment shall be payable semiannually
  on September 1 and March 1 of each year.
  (3) DEFINITION- For the purpose of this section, the term `total assets'
  means the sum of--
  (A) on-balance-sheet assets of the enterprise, as determined in accordance
  with generally accepted accounting principles;
  (B) the unpaid principal balance of outstanding mortgage backed securities
  issued or guaranteed by the enterprise that are not included in subparagraph
  (A); and
  (C) other off-balance-sheet obligations as determined by the Director.
  (c) RECEIPTS FROM ANNUAL ASSESSMENTS AND THE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT- Office
  receipts derived from the annual assessments and the special assessment
  levied upon the enterprises pursuant to subsection (f)--
  (1) shall be available to the Director for expenses necessary to carry
  out the responsibilities of the Director relating to the enterprises;
  (2) shall be used by the Director to pay the expenses necessary to carry
  out the responsibilities of the Director relating to the enterprises; and
  (3) shall not be subject to apportionment for the purposes of chapter 15
  of title 31, United States Code or any other authority.
  (d) DEFICIENCIES DUE TO INCREASED COSTS OF REGULATION AND ENFORCEMENT-
  The semiannual payments made pursuant to subsection (b) by any enterprise
  that is not adequately capitalized may be increased, as necessary, in the
  discretion of the Director to pay additional estimated costs of regulation
  and enforcement.
  (e) SURPLUS- If any amount paid by an enterprise remains unspent at
  the end of any semiannual period, such amount shall be deducted from the
  annual assessment required to be paid by that enterprise for the following
  semiannual period.
  (f) INITIAL SPECIAL ASSESSMENT- The Director shall levy on the enterprises
  an initial special assessment, allocated pursuant to subsection (b)(1),
  to cover the startup costs of the Office, including space modifications,
  capital equipment, supplies, recruitment, and activities of the Office in
  the first year. Each enterprise shall pay its portion of the initial special
  assessment no later than 10 days after the date the assessment is made.
  (g) BUDGET AND FINANCIAL REPORTS FOR THE OFFICE-
  (1) FINANCIAL OPERATING PLANS AND FORECASTS- Before the beginning of each
  fiscal year, the Director shall provide to the Secretary and the Director
  of the Office of Management and Budget a copy of the Office's financial
  operating plans and forecasts.
  (2) REPORTS OF OPERATIONS- As soon as practicable after the end of each
  fiscal year and each quarter, the Director shall submit to the Secretary
  and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget a copy of the
  report of the results of the Office's operations during such period.
  (3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- The requirement to provide plans, forecasts,
  and reports under this subsection may not be construed as imposing any
  obligation on the part of the Director to obtain the consent or approval
  of the Secretary or the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
  with respect to such plans, forecasts, and reports.
  (4) VIEWS OF THE SECRETARY- On an annual basis the Secretary shall provide
  the Congress with comments on the plans, forecasts, and reports required
  under this subsection.
  (5) INCLUSION IN THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGET- The annual plans, forecasts, and
  reports required under this subsection shall be included in the Budget of the
  United States in the appropriate form, and in the Department's congressional
  justifications for each fiscal year in a form determined by the Secretary.
  (6) AUDIT-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General shall audit the operations of the
  Office in accordance with generally accepted Government auditing standards.
  All books, records, accounts, reports, files, and property belonging to
  or used by the Office shall be made available to the Comptroller General.
  (B) FREQUENCY- Audits shall be conducted annually for the first 2 years
  following the effective date of this Act and as appropriate thereafter.
SEC. 106. INFORMATION, RECORDS, AND MEETINGS.
  For purposes of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code,
  the Office and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall, with
  respect to activities under this Act, be considered agencies responsible
  for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions.
SEC. 107. REGULATIONS.
  In promulgating regulations relating to the financial health and security
  of an enterprise, the Director shall--
  (1) consult in the development of such regulations with the Secretary,
  the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Board of Governors
  of the Federal Reserve System, and such other officials as the Director
  determines appropriate; and
  (2) provide copies of proposed regulations to the Secretary, the Secretary
  of the Treasury, and the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal
  Reserve System for their review and comment, which comments shall be in
  writing and made a part of the record.
SEC. 108. SAVINGS PROVISION.
  Any rule or regulation promulgated prior to the effective date of this
  Act by the Secretary pursuant to the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act shall remain
  valid unless they are modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or
  revoked by operation of law or in accordance with law.
SEC. 109. ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR.
  Not later than June 15 of each year, the Director shall submit to the
  Secretary and to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
  the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the
  House of Representatives a written report which shall include--
  (1) a description of the actions taken, and being undertaken, by the
  Director to carry out this Act;
  (2) a description of the financial condition of each enterprise, including
  the results and conclusions of the annual examinations of the enterprises;
  (3) an assessment, in accordance with section 508, of the extent to which
  each enterprise is achieving its public purposes; and
  (4) any recommendations for legislation.
SEC. 110. FINANCIAL REPORTS AND EXAMINATIONS.
  (a) FINANCIAL REPORTS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Each enterprise shall provide to the Director annual and
  quarterly reports of financial condition and operations which shall be
  in such form, contain such information, and be made on such dates, as the
  Director may require.
  (2) CONTENTS OF ANNUAL REPORT- Each annual report shall include--
  (A) financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
  accounting principles;
  (B) any supplemental information or alternative presentation that the
  Director may require; and
  (C) a report signed by the enterprise's chief executive officer and chief
  accounting or financial officer, that assesses, as of the end of the
  enterprise's most recent fiscal year--
  (i) the effectiveness of the enterprise's internal control structure and
  procedures; and
  (ii) the enterprise's compliance with designated safety and soundness laws.
  (3) ANNUAL INDEPENDENT AUDITS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-
  (A) AUDITS REQUIRED- Each enterprise shall have an annual independent audit
  made of its financial statements by an independent public accountant in
  accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
  (B) SCOPE OF AUDIT- In conducting an audit under this subsection, an
  independent public accountant shall determine and report on whether the
  financial statements--
  (i) are presented fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting
  principles; and
  (ii) to the extent determined necessary by the Director, comply with such
  other disclosure requirements as may be imposed under paragraph (2)(B).
  (4) CERTIFICATION OF QUARTERLY REPORTS-
  (A) DECLARATION- Quarterly reports shall contain a declaration by an
  officer designated by the board of directors of the enterprise to make
  such declaration that the report is true and correct to the best of his
  or her knowledge and belief.
  (B) ATTESTATION- The correctness of the quarterly report shall be attested
  by the signatures of at least 3 of the directors of the enterprise other
  than the officer making the declaration required by paragraph (4)(A). Such
  attestation shall include a declaration that the report has been examined
  by them and to the best of their knowledge and belief is true and correct.
  (5) REVIEW OF AUDITS- The Director, or at the request of the Director or any
  Member of Congress, the Comptroller General of the United States, may review
  any audit of a financial statement conducted under this subsection. Upon
  request of the Director or the Comptroller General, an enterprise and
  its auditor shall provide all books, accounts, financial records, reports,
  files, workpapers, and property that the Director or the Comptroller General
  considers necessary to the performance of any review under this subsection.
  (6) ADDITIONAL AND SPECIAL REPORTS- The Director may require additional
  reports from an enterprise, in such form and containing such information as
  the Director may prescribe, on dates fixed by the Director, and may require
  special reports from an enterprise whenever, in the Director's judgment, such
  reports are necessary for the Director to carry out the purposes of this Act.
  (b) EXAMINATIONS-
  (1) FREQUENCY OF EXAMINATIONS- The Director shall conduct a full-scope,
  on-site examination of each enterprise whenever the Director determines
  that an examination is necessary, but not less than once every 12 months,
  to determine the condition of the enterprise and for the purpose of ensuring
  its financial health and security.
  (2) EXAMINERS- The Director is authorized to contract with any Federal
  banking agency for the services of examiners and to reimburse such agency
  for the cost of providing the examiners.
  (3) TECHNICAL EXPERTS- The Director is authorized to contract for the
  services of such technical experts as the Director determines necessary
  and appropriate to provide temporary or periodic technical assistance in
  an examination.
  (4) POWER AND DUTY OF EXAMINERS- Each examiner shall make a full and detailed
  report to the Director of the financial condition of the enterprise examined.
  (5) LAW APPLICABLE TO EXAMINERS- The Director and each examiner shall
  have the same authority and each examiner shall be subject to the same
  obligations and penalties as are applicable to examiners employed by the
  Federal Reserve banks.
  (6) ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS; EVIDENCE; SUBPOENA POWERS-
  In connection with any investigation, examination of an enterprise,
  or administrative proceeding, the Director shall have the authorities
  conferred by section 308.
  (7) PRESERVATION OF RECORDS BY PHOTOGRAPHY-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The Director may cause any record, paper, or document
  to be copied or photographed, in a manner that complies with the minimum
  standards of quality approved for permanent photographic records by the
  National Institute of Standards and Technology.
  (B) DEEMED AS ORIGINALS- Such copies or photographs, shall be deemed to
  be an original record for all purposes, including introduction in evidence
  in all State and Federal courts or administrative agencies.
  (C) PRESERVATION- Any such photograph or copy shall be preserved  as the
  Director shall prescribe, and the original may be destroyed.
SEC. 111. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN SOLICITATION OF CONTRACTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The enterprises shall establish a minority outreach program
  to ensure inclusion, to the maximum extent possible, of minorities and
  women and businesses owned by minorities and women, including financial
  institutions, investment banking firms, underwriters, accountants, brokers,
  and providers of legal services, in contracts entered into by the enterprises
  with such persons or business, public and private, in order to perform
  the functions authorized under any law applicable to the enterprises.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment
  of this Act, each enterprise shall submit to the Congress and to the
  Director a report describing the actions taken by the enterprise pursuant
  to subsection (a).
SEC. 112. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
  Section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting at
  the end the following:
  `Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.'.
SEC. 113. AMENDMENT TO DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT ACT.
  Section 5 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42
  U.S.C. 3534) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary may not
  merge or consolidate the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight
  of the Department, or any of the functions or responsibilities of such
  Office with any function or program administered by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 114. PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
  Section 1905 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting `a
  consultant to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight,' after
  `or agency thereof,'.
SEC. 115. LIMITATION ON SUBSEQUENT EMPLOYMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Neither the Director nor a former officer or employee of
  the Office may accept compensation from an enterprise during the 2-year
  period beginning on the date of separation from employment by the Office.
  (b) APPLICABILITY- The limitation contained in subsection (a) applies
  only to any former officer or employee who, while employed by the Office,
  was compensated at a rate in excess of the lowest rate for a position
  classified higher than GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 5107
  of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 116. PROTECTING TAXPAYERS AGAINST LIABILITY FOR THE ENTERPRISES.
  Nothing in this Act shall be construed as obligating the Federal Government,
  either directly or indirectly, to provide any funds to the Federal Home
  Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Federal National Mortgage Association, or
  to honor, reimburse, or otherwise guarantee any obligation or liability of
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or the Federal National Mortgage
  Association, and nothing in this Act shall be construed as implying that
  either enterprise or its securities are backed by the full faith  and
  credit of the United States.
TITLE II--REQUIRED CAPITAL LEVELS FOR THE ENTERPRISES AND SPECIAL ENFORCEMENT
POWERS
SEC. 201. RISK-BASED CAPITAL LEVELS.
  (a) RISK-BASED CAPITAL TEST- The Director shall, by regulation, establish
  a risk-based capital test which shall require each enterprise to maintain
  positive capital during a 10-year period (the `stress period') in which
  the following circumstances are assumed to occur:
  (1) CREDIT RISK- With respect to mortgages owned or guaranteed by
  the enterprise and other obligations of the enterprise, losses occur
  throughout the United States at a rate of default and severity (based on
  any measurements of default reasonably related to prevailing practice for
  the industry in determining capital adequacy) reasonably related to the
  rate and severity that occurred in contiguous areas of the United States
  containing not less than 5 percent of the total population of the United
  States that, for a period of not less than 2 years (the `benchmark regional
  experience'), experienced the highest rates of default and severity of
  mortgage losses, in comparison with such rates of default and severity
  of mortgage losses in other such areas for any period of such duration,
  as determined by the Director.
  (2) INTEREST RATE RISK-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Interest rates decrease as described in subparagraph (B)
  or increase as described in subparagraph (C), whichever would require more
  capital for the enterprise.
  (B) DECREASES- The 10-year constant maturity Treasury yield decreases during
  the first year of the stress period and will remain at the new level for
  the remainder of the stress period. The yield decreases to the lesser of--
  (i) 600 basis points below the average yield during the preceding 9
  months, or
  (ii) 60 percent of the average yield during the preceding 3 years,
but in no case to a yield less than 50 percent of the average yield during
the preceding 9 months.
  (C) INCREASES- The 10-year constant maturity Treasury yield increases during
  the first year of the stress period and will remain at the new level for
  the remainder of the stress period. The yield increases to the greater of--
  (i) 600 basis points above the average yield during the preceding 9
  months, or
  (ii) 160 percent of the average yield during the preceding 3 years,
but in no case to a yield greater than 175 percent of the average yield
during the preceding 9 months.
  (D) DIFFERENT TERMS TO MATURITY- Yields of Treasury instruments with other
  terms to maturity will change relative to the 10-year yield in patterns
  and for durations that are within the range of historical experience and
  are judged reasonable by the Director but must result by the 5th year of
  the stress period in patterns of yields with respect to maturities that
  are consistent with average patterns over periods of not less than 2 years
  as established by the Director.
  (E) LARGE INCREASES IN YIELDS- If the 10-year constant maturity Treasury
  yield is assumed to increase by more than 50 percent over the average
  yield during the preceding 9 months, the Director shall adjust the losses
  in paragraphs (1) and (3) to reflect a correspondingly higher rate of
  general price inflation.
  (3) NEW BUSINESS-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Any contractual commitments of the enterprise to purchase
  mortgages or issue securities will be fulfilled. The characteristics of
  resulting mortgage purchases, securities issued, and other financing will be
  consistent with the contractual terms of such commitments, recent experience,
  and the economic characteristics of the stress period. No other purchases
  of mortgages shall be assumed, except as provided in subparagraph (B).
  (B) ADDITIONAL NEW BUSINESS- The Director may, after consideration of each
  of the studies required by subparagraph (C), assume that the enterprise
  conducts additional new business during the stress period consistent with
  the following--
  (i) AMOUNT AND PRODUCT TYPES- The amount and types of mortgages purchased
  and their financing will be reasonably related to recent experience and
  the economic characteristics of the stress period.
  (ii) LOSSES- Default and loss severity characteristics of mortgages
  purchased will be reasonably related to historical experience.
  (iii) PRICING- Prices charged by the enterprise in purchasing new
  mortgages will be reasonably related to recent experience and the
  economic characteristics of the stress period. The Director may assume
  that a reasonable period of time would lapse before the enterprise would
  recognize and react to the characteristics of the stress period.
  (iv) INTEREST RATE RISK- Interest rate risk on new mortgages purchased
  will occur to an extent reasonably related to historical experience.
  (v) RESERVES- The enterprise must maintain reserves during and at the end
  of the stress period on new business conducted during the first 5 years
  of the stress period reasonably related to the expected future losses on
  such business, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles
  and industry accounting practice.
  (C) STUDIES- Within 1 year after regulations are first issued under
  subsection (e), the Director, the Director of the Congressional Budget
  Office, and the Comptroller General of the United States shall each submit
  to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
  and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of
  Representatives a study of the advisability and appropriate form of any
  new business assumptions under subparagraph (B).
  (D) EFFECTIVE DATE- The provisions of subparagraph (B) shall become
  effective 4 years after regulations are first issued under section 201(e).
  (4) OTHER ACTIVITIES- Losses or gains on other activities, including
  interest rate and foreign exchange hedging activities, shall be determined
  by the Director, on the basis of available information, to be consistent
  with the stress period.
  (b) CONSIDERATIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- In establishing the risk-based capital test under subsection
  (a), the Director shall take into account appropriate distinctions among
  types of mortgage products, differences in seasoning of mortgages, and
  any other factors the Director considers appropriate.
  (2) CONSISTENCY- Characteristics of the stress period other than those
  specifically set forth in subsection (a), such as prepayment experience
  and dividend policies, will be those determined by the Director, on the
  basis of available information, to be most consistent with the stress period.
  (c) RISK-BASED CAPITAL LEVEL- For purposes of this title, the risk-based
  capital level for an enterprise shall be 130 percent of the amount of
  capital required to meet the risk-based capital test.
  (d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
  (1) SEASONING- The term `seasoning' means the change over time in the ratio
  of the unpaid principal balance of a mortgage to the value of the property by
  which such mortgage loan is secured, determined on an annual basis by region,
  in accordance with the Constant Quality Home Price Index published by the
  Secretary of Commerce (or any index of comparable or superior quality).
  (2) TYPE OF MORTGAGE PRODUCT- The term `type of mortgage product'
  means a classification of 1 or more mortgage products, as established
  by the Director, that have similar characteristics based on the set of
  characteristics set forth in the following subparagraphs:
  (A) The property securing the mortgage is--
  (i) a residential property consisting of 1 to 4 dwelling units; or
  (ii) a residential property consisting of more than 4 dwelling units.
  (B) The interest rate on the mortgage is--
  (i) fixed; or
  (ii) adjustable.
  (C) The priority of the lien securing the mortgage is--
  (i) first; or
  (ii) second or other.
  (D) The term of the mortgage is--
  (i) 1 to 15 years;
  (ii) 16 to 30 years; or
  (iii) more than 30 years.
  (E) The owner of the property is--
  (i) an owner-occupant; or
  (ii) an investor.
  (F) The unpaid principal balance of the mortgage--
  (i) will amortize completely over the term of the mortgage and will not
  increase significantly at any time during the term of the mortgage;
  (ii) will not amortize completely over the term of the mortgage and will
  not increase significantly at any time during the term of the mortgage; or
  (iii) may increase significantly at some time during the term of the
  mortgage.
  (G) Any other characteristics of the mortgage, as the Director may determine.
  (e) REGULATIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Director shall issue final regulations establishing
  the risk-based capital test not later than 18 months after the effective
  date of this Act. Such regulations shall be effective when issued.
  (2) CONTENTS- Such regulations shall contain specific requirements,
  definitions, methods, variables, and parameters used under the risk-based
  capital test and in implementing the test (such as loan loss severity,
  float income, loan-to-value ratios, taxes, yield curve slopes, default
  experience, and prepayment rates).
  (3) APPLICATION- The regulations and any accompanying orders or guidelines
  shall be sufficiently specific to enable each enterprise to apply the test
  to that enterprise in the same manner as the Director, and to enable the
  Secretary of the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
  System, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office, the Comptroller
  General of the United States, the Director of the Office of Management
  and Budget, or a consultant to the Office to apply the test in the same
  manner as the Director.
  (4) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION- Any person or agency described in
  paragraph (3) that receives any book, record, or information from the
  Director or an enterprise to enable the risk-based capital test to be
  applied shall--
  (A) maintain the confidentiality of the book, record, or information in
  a manner that is generally consistent with the level of confidentiality
  established for the material by the Director or the enterprise; and
  (B) be exempt from section 552 of title 5, United States Code, with respect
  to the book, record, or information.
  (f) AVAILABILITY OF MODEL- The Director shall make available to the public
  copies of any statistical model used to implement the risk-based capital
  test under this section. The Director may charge a reasonable fee for any
  copy of a statistical model.
SEC. 202. MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVELS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The minimum capital level for each enterprise shall be
  the sum of--
  (1) 2.50 percent of the aggregate on-balance-sheet assets of the enterprise,
  as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
  (2) 0.45 percent of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding
  mortgage-backed securities and substantially equivalent instruments issued
  or guaranteed by the enterprise that are not included in paragraph (1); and
  (3) those percentages of off-balance-sheet obligations not included in
  paragraph (2) (excluding commitments with remaining terms of no more than
  6 months to purchase mortgages or issue securities), that the Director
  determines best reflect the credit risk of such obligations or guarantees
  in relation to those included in paragraph (2).
  (b) TRANSITION- Notwithstanding subsection (a), until the expiration of
  the 18-month period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the
  minimum capital level for each enterprise shall be the sum of--
  (1) 2.25 percent of the aggregate on-balance-sheet assets of the enterprise,
  as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
  (2) 0.40 percent of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding
  mortgage-backed securities and substantially equivalent instruments issued
  or guaranteed by the enterprise that are not included in paragraph (1); and
  (3) those percentages of off-balance-sheet obligations not included in
  paragraph (2) (excluding commitments with remaining terms of no more
  than 1 year to purchase mortgages or issue securities), that the Director
  determines best reflect the credit risk of such obligations or guarantees
  in relation to those included in paragraph (2).
SEC. 203. CRITICAL CAPITAL LEVELS.
  The critical capital level for each enterprise shall be the sum of--
  (1) 1.25 percent of the aggregate on-balance-sheet assets of the enterprise,
  as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
  (2) 0.25 percent of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding
  mortgage-backed securities and substantially equivalent instruments issued
  or guaranteed by the enterprise that are not included in paragraph (1); and
  (3) those percentages of off-balance-sheet obligations not included in
  paragraph (2) (excluding commitments with remaining terms of no more than
  6 months to purchase mortgages or issue securities), that the Director
  determines best reflect the credit risk of such obligations or guarantees
  in relation to those included in paragraph (2).
SEC. 204. CAPITAL CLASSIFICATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall classify an enterprise according to
  the following categories:
  (1) ADEQUATELY CAPITALIZED- An enterprise shall be classified as `adequately
  capitalized' if the enterprise meets or exceeds both its risk-based capital
  level and its minimum capital level.
  (2) UNDERCAPITALIZED- An enterprise shall be classified as `undercapitalized'
  if it is not adequately capitalized.
  (3) SIGNIFICANTLY UNDERCAPITALIZED- An enterprise shall be classified as
  `significantly undercapitalized' if the enterprise does not meet or exceed
  its minimum capital level.
  (4) CRITICALLY UNDERCAPITALIZED- An enterprise shall be classified as
  `critically undercapitalized' if it does not meet its critical capital level.
  (b) QUARTERLY CLASSIFICATION- The Director shall classify an enterprise
  not less than quarterly. The first such classification shall be made within
  3 months after the effective date of this Act.
  (c) IMPLEMENTATION- Notwithstanding subsection (a), an enterprise shall
  be classified as adequately capitalized until 1 year after the regulations
  are first issued under section 201(e), if the enterprise meets or exceeds
  the applicable minimum capital level.
SEC. 205. SUPERVISORY ACTIONS APPLICABLE TO ENTERPRISES.
  (a) SUPERVISORY ACTIONS APPLICABLE TO UNDERCAPITALIZED ENTERPRISES-
  (1) CAPITAL RESTORATION PLAN- An undercapitalized enterprise shall submit
  to the Director and implement a capital restoration plan.
  (2) RESTRICTION ON CAPITAL DISTRIBUTIONS- An undercapitalized enterprise that
  is not significantly undercapitalized shall make no capital distribution
  that would result in the enterprise being classified as significantly
  undercapitalized.
  (b) ADDITIONAL SUPERVISORY ACTIONS APPLICABLE TO SIGNIFICANTLY
  UNDERCAPITALIZED ENTERPRISES-
  (1) RESTRICTIONS ON CAPITAL DISTRIBUTIONS-
  (A) PRIOR APPROVAL- A significantly undercapitalized enterprise shall make
  no capital distribution that would result in the enterprise being classified
  as critically undercapitalized. A significantly undercapitalized enterprise
  may make any other capital distribution only with the prior approval of
  the Director.
  (B) STANDARD FOR APPROVAL- The Director may approve a capital distribution by
  a significantly undercapitalized enterprise only if the Director determines
  that the payment--
  (i) will enhance the ability of the enterprise promptly to meet the
  risk-based capital level and the minimum capital level for the enterprise,
  (ii) will contribute to the long-term financial health and security of
  the enterprise, or
  (iii) is otherwise in the public interest.
  (2) DISCRETIONARY SUPERVISORY ACTIONS-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The Director may by order take any of the following actions
  with respect to a significantly undercapitalized enterprise:
  (i) Limit any increase in, or order the reduction of, any obligations of
  the enterprise.
  (ii) Limit or prohibit the growth of the assets of the enterprise or
  require contraction of the assets of the enterprise.
  (iii) Require the enterprise to raise new capital.
  (iv) Require the enterprise to terminate, reduce, or modify any activity
  that the Director determines creates excessive risk to the enterprise.
  (v) Appoint a conservator for the enterprise if the Director determines that
  the capital of the enterprise is below its minimum level and that alternative
  remedies are not satisfactory to restore the enterprise's capital.
  (B) APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR-
  (i) AUTHORITY- Title IV, except subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 401,
  shall govern any conservatorship resulting from an appointment  pursuant
  to subparagraph (A)(v).
  (ii) NOTICE AND HEARING- The appointment of a conservator under subparagraph
  (A)(v) shall be subject to the notice and hearing provisions set forth in
  section 209.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect when the first
  classifications are made under section 204(b).
SEC. 206. CHANGES IN THE CLASSIFICATION OF AN ENTERPRISE IN CONNECTION WITH
A CAPITAL RESTORATION PLAN.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director may by order--
  (1) classify an undercapitalized enterprise as significantly
  undercapitalized, or
  (2) classify a significantly undercapitalized enterprise as  critically
  undercapitalized,
upon the occurrence of an event described in subsection (b).
  (b) REASONS FOR THE CHANGE IN CLASSIFICATION- Subsection (a) shall apply if--
  (1) the enterprise does not submit or resubmit a capital restoration plan
  that is substantially in compliance with section 208,
  (2) the Director has not approved a capital restoration plan submitted by
  the enterprise and the enterprise's opportunities for resubmission of a
  capital restoration plan have expired, or
  (3) the Director determines that the enterprise has failed to make, in good
  faith, reasonable efforts necessary to comply with the capital restoration
  plan and fulfill the schedule for the plan approved by the Director.
SEC. 207. MANDATORY APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR FOR CRITICALLY UNDERCAPITALIZED
ENTERPRISES.
  (a) APPOINTMENT- If the Director determines that an enterprise is critically
  undercapitalized, the Director shall appoint a conservator for the enterprise
  not later than 30 days after providing notice and an opportunity for a
  hearing pursuant to section 209, unless the Director determines, with the
  concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury, that the public interest
  is better served by other action. Title IV, except subsections (a), (b),
  and (c) of section 401, shall govern any conservatorship resulting from
  an appointment under this section.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect when the first quarterly
  classifications are made under section 204(b).
SEC. 208. CAPITAL RESTORATION PLANS.
  (a) CONTENTS- A capital restoration plan submitted under this title shall--
  (1) be a feasible plan for the enterprise that would likely enable it to
  become adequately capitalized;
  (2) describe the actions that the enterprise will take to become adequately
  capitalized;
  (3) establish a schedule for completing the actions set forth in the
  capital restoration plan;
  (4) specify the types and levels of activities in which the enterprise
  will engage during the term of the capital restoration plan; and
  (5) describe the actions that the enterprise will take to comply with any
  supervisory requirements imposed under this title.
  (b) DEADLINES FOR SUBMISSION- A capital restoration plan must be submitted
  to the Director not more than 45 days after the Director has notified the
  enterprise in writing that a plan is required. The Director may extend
  the deadline to the extent that the Director determines necessary. Any
  extension of the deadline shall be in writing and shall be for a specified
  period of time.
  (c) APPROVAL- The Director shall approve or disapprove each capital
  restoration plan not later than 45 days after submission. The Director may
  extend such period for an additional 15 days. The Director shall provide
  written notice of the decision to any enterprise submitting a plan.
  If the Director disapproves the plan, the Director shall provide to the
  enterprise the reasons for such disapproval in writing.
  (d) RESUBMISSION- If the initial capital restoration plan submitted by
  the enterprise is disapproved, the enterprise shall submit an amended plan
  acceptable to the Director within 30 days or such longer period that the
  Director determines is in the public interest.
SEC. 209. NOTICE AND HEARING.
  (a) NOTICE- Before making a capital classification or taking a discretionary
  supervisory action under this title, the Director shall provide written
  notice of the proposed classification or action to the enterprise,
  stating the reasons for the classification or action, and shall provide
  the enterprise with a timely opportunity to review and supplement the
  administrative record in an administrative hearing.
  (b) NOTICE TO CONGRESS- After making a capital classification or taking
  a discretionary supervisory action under this title, the Director shall
  provide written notice to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
  Affairs of the Senate, and to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
  Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 210. JUDICIAL REVIEW OF DIRECTOR ACTION.
  (a) JURISDICTION-
  (1) FILING OF PETITION- An enterprise that is the subject of a capital
  classification or discretionary supervisory action pursuant to this title,
  other than the appointment of a conservator, may obtain review of the
  classification or action by filing, within 10 days after receiving written
  notice of the Director's classification or action, a written petition
  requesting that the order of the Director be modified, terminated, or
  set aside.
  (2) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION- The United States Court of Appeals for the
  District of Columbia Circuit shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear a
  petition filed pursuant to this subsection.
  (b) UNAVAILABILITY OF STAY- With respect to a classification or
  discretionary supervisory action by the Director with regard to a
  significantly undercapitalized enterprise or an action that results in
  the classification of an enterprise as significantly undercapitalized
  or critically undercapitalized, the court shall not have jurisdiction to
  stay, enjoin, or otherwise delay such classification or action taken by
  the Director pending judicial review of the action.
  (c) LIMITATION ON JURISDICTION- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  no court other than the United States Court of Appeals for the District
  of Columbia Circuit shall have jurisdiction to affect, by injunction or
  otherwise, the issuance or effectiveness of any classification or action
  of the Director under this title or to review, modify, suspend, terminate,
  or set aside such classification or action.
SEC. 211. RATINGS.
  (a) RATING- Not later than 1 year after the effective date of this Act, the
  Director shall, for each enterprise, contract with 2 nationally recognized
  statistical rating organizations--
  (1) to assess the likelihood that the enterprise will not be able to
  meet its obligations from its own resources with an assumption that there
  is no recourse to any implicit Government guarantee and to express that
  likelihood as a traditional credit rating; and
  (2) to review the rating of the enterprise as frequently as the Director
  determines is appropriate, but not less than annually.
  (b) COMMENTS- The Director shall submit comments to the Committee on
  Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
  Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives on any
  difference between the evaluation of the rating organizations and that of
  the Office, with special attention to capital adequacy.
  (c) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this section, the term `nationally
  recognized statistical rating organization' means any entity effectively
  recognized by the Division of Market Regulation of the Securities
  and Exchange Commission as a nationally recognized statistical rating
  organization for the purposes of the capital rules for broker-dealers.
SEC. 212. CAPITAL.
  (a) DEFINITION- The term `capital' shall be defined by the Director by
  regulation and--
  (1) shall include, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
  principles--
  (A) the par or stated value of outstanding common stock;
  (B) the par or stated value of outstanding perpetual, noncumulative
  preferred stock;
  (C) paid-in capital;
  (D) retained earnings; and
  (E) other equity instruments that the Director determines are appropriate;
  and
  (2) for the purposes of section 201, may also include such other amounts
  that the Director determines are available to absorb losses subject to
  any limitation prescribed by the Director, and shall include loss reserves
  established in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
  (b) EXCLUSION- As defined by the Director, the term `capital' shall exclude
  any amounts that an enterprise could be required to pay, at the option of
  investors, to retire capital instruments.
TITLE III--ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS.
  (a) GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE- The Director may issue and serve upon an enterprise
  or any director or executive officer a notice of charges if, in the opinion
  of the Director, the enterprise, director, or executive officer--
  (1) is engaging or has engaged, or the Director has reasonable cause to
  believe that the enterprise, director, or executive officer will engage
  in conduct that, if continued, would be likely to cause or result in a
  material depletion of the enterprise's capital; or
  (2) is violating or has violated, or the Director has reasonable cause to
  believe that the enterprise, director, or executive officer will violate--
  (A) any provision of this Act or the enterprise's charter Act or any order,
  rule, or regulation thereunder;
  (B) any condition imposed in writing by the Director pursuant to the
  Director's authority under this Act or a charter Act in connection with
  the approval of any application or other request by the enterprise required
  by this Act or a charter Act; or
  (C) any written agreement entered into with the Director.
  (b) EXCEPTION FOR ADEQUATELY CAPITALIZED ENTERPRISES- The Director may
  serve a notice of charges or issue an order upon an enterprise, a director,
  or an executive officer for any conduct or violation that relates to the
  financial health or security of an enterprise that is adequately capitalized
  only if the Director determines that--
  (1) the conduct or violation threatens to cause a significant depletion
  of the enterprise's capital; or
  (2) the conduct or violation may result in the issuance of an order
  described in subsection (d)(1).
  (c) Procedure-
  (1) NOTICE OF CHARGES- Any notice of charges shall contain a statement
  of the facts constituting the alleged conduct or violation, and shall fix
  a time and place at which a hearing will be held to determine whether an
  order to cease and desist should issue.
  (2) DATE OF HEARING- Such hearing shall be held not earlier than 30 days
  nor later than 60 days after service of such notice unless an earlier or a
  later date is set by the hearing officer at the request of any party served.
  (3) FAILURE TO APPEAR CONSTITUTES CONSENT- Unless the party served appears
  at the hearing personally or by a duly authorized representative, such party
  shall be deemed to have consented to the issuance of the cease-and-desist
  order.
  (4) ISSUANCE OF ORDER- In the event of consent by the party, or if, upon
  the record made at any such hearing, the Director finds that any conduct
  or violation specified in the notice of charges has been established,
  the Director may issue and serve upon such party an order requiring the
  party to cease and desist from such conduct or violation and to take
  affirmative action to correct the conditions resulting from any such
  conduct or violation.
  (5) EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDER- A cease-and-desist order shall become effective
  30 days after service (except in the case of a cease-and-desist order issued
  upon consent, which shall become effective at the time specified therein),
  and shall remain effective and enforceable, except to the extent that it
  is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by action of the Director
  or a court of competent jurisdiction.
  (d) AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO CORRECT CONDITIONS RESULTING FROM VIOLATIONS OR
  PRACTICES- The authority under this section or section 302 to issue any order
  that requires a party to take affirmative action includes the authority--
  (1) to require a director or executive officer to make restitution to,
  or provide reimbursement, indemnification, or guarantee against loss to
  the enterprise to the extent that such person--
  (A) was unjustly enriched in connection with such conduct or violation; or
  (B) engaged in conduct or a violation that would subject such person to
  a civil penalty pursuant to section 305(b)(3);
  (2) to require an enterprise to seek restitution, or to obtain reimbursement,
  indemnification, or guarantee against loss;
  (3) to restrict the growth of the enterprise;
  (4) to require the disposition of any asset;
  (5) to require the rescission of agreements or contracts;
  (6) to require the employment of qualified officers or employees (who may
  be subject to approval by the Director); and
  (7) to require the taking of such other action as the Director determines
  appropriate.
  (e) AUTHORITY TO LIMIT ACTIVITIES- The authority under this section or
  section 302 to issue an order  includes the authority to place limitations
  on the activities or functions of the enterprise, or any director or
  executive officer.
  (f) CERTAIN ORDERS MAY CONTAIN CAPITAL CLASSIFICATION- The authority under
  this section or section 302 to issue an order includes the authority to--
  (1) classify the enterprise as undercapitalized, if the enterprise is
  otherwise classified as adequately capitalized;
  (2) classify the enterprise as significantly undercapitalized, if the
  enterprise is otherwise classified as undercapitalized; or
  (3) classify the enterprise as critically undercapitalized, if the enterprise
  is otherwise classified as significantly undercapitalized;
if the Director determines that the enterprise is engaging or has engaged
in conduct not approved by the Director or a violation, that may result in
a rapid depletion of the capital of the enterprise.
SEC. 302. TEMPORARY CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDERS.
  (a) GROUNDS FOR ISSUANCE; SCOPE- Whenever the Director determines that
  any conduct or violation, or threatened conduct or violation, specified in
  the notice of charges served upon the enterprise, director, or executive
  officer pursuant to section 301, or the continuation thereof, is likely--
  (1) to cause insolvency;
  (2) to cause a significant depletion of the capital of the enterprise; or
  (3) otherwise to cause irreparable harm to the enterprise,
prior to the completion of the proceedings conducted pursuant to section
301(c), the Director may issue a temporary order requiring the enterprise,
or any director or executive officer, to cease and desist from any such
conduct or violation and to take affirmative action to prevent or remedy such
insolvency, depletion, or harm pending completion of such proceedings. Such
order may include any requirement authorized under section 301(d).
  (b) INCOMPLETE OR INACCURATE RECORDS- If a notice of charges served under
  section 301(a) specifies on the basis of particular facts and circumstances
  that the enterprise's books and records are so incomplete or inaccurate
  that the Director is unable, through the normal supervisory process, to
  determine the financial condition of that enterprise or the details or
  the purpose of any transaction or transactions that may have a material
  effect on the financial condition of that enterprise, the Director may
  issue a temporary order requiring--
  (1) the cessation of any activity or practice which gave rise, whether in
  whole or in part, to the incomplete or inaccurate state of the books or
  records; or
  (2) affirmative action to restore such books or records to a complete and
  accurate state,
until the completion of the proceedings under section 301.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDER- An order issued pursuant to this section shall--
  (1) become effective upon service upon the party and shall remain effective
  unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a court in proceedings authorized
  by subsection (d),
  (2) shall be enforceable pending the completion of the proceedings pursuant
  to such notice, and
  (3) shall remain effective until the Director dismisses the charges
  specified in such notice or until superseded by a cease-and-desist order
  issued pursuant to section 301.
  (d) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Not later than 10 days after a party has been served
  with a temporary cease-and-desist order pursuant to this section, the party
  may petition the United States District Court for the District of Columbia,
  for an injunction setting aside, limiting, or suspending the enforcement,
  operation, or effectiveness of such order pending the completion of the
  administrative proceedings.
  (e) ENFORCEMENT- In the case of a violation or a threatened violation of
  a temporary order issued pursuant to this section, the Director may apply
  to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for an
  injunction to enforce such order.
SEC. 303. HEARINGS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
  (a) HEARING- Any hearing provided for in this title shall be on the record
  and held in the District of Columbia.
  (b) DECISION BY THE DIRECTOR- Not later than 90 days after the Director has
  notified the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision,
  the Director shall render the decision and shall issue and serve upon each
  party a copy of the order. The Director may modify an order prior to the
  filing of the record for judicial review.
  (c) JUDICIAL REVIEW- A party may obtain a review of an order issued under
  this title, except section 302, by filing in the United States Court of
  Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, not later than 30 days after
  the date of service, a written petition seeking to modify, terminate,
  or set aside such order.
SEC. 304. JURISDICTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) APPLICATION FOR ENFORCEMENT- The Director may apply to the United
  States District Court for the District of Columbia for the enforcement of
  any order issued under title II or this title, and such court shall have
  jurisdiction and power to order and require compliance with such order.
  (b) LIMITATION ON JURISDICTION- Except as otherwise permitted by section 210
  or in this title, no court shall have jurisdiction to affect by injunction
  or otherwise the issuance or enforcement of any notice, order, or penalty
  under title II or this title, or to review, modify, suspend, terminate,
  or set aside any such notice, order, or penalty.
SEC. 305. CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director may impose a civil money penalty on an
  enterprise, director, or executive officer that--
  (1) violates any provision of this Act or the enterprise's charter Act or
  regulation thereunder,
  (2) violates any final order or temporary order issued pursuant to section
  205, 206, 301, or 302,
  (3) violates any condition imposed in writing by the Director pursuant
  to the authority under this Act or a charter Act, in connection with the
  approval of an application or other request by an enterprise required by law,
  (4) violates any written agreement between an enterprise and the Director, or
  (5) engages in any conduct that causes or is likely to cause a loss to
  the enterprise.
  (b) AMOUNT OF PENALTY-
  (1) FIRST TIER-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The Director may impose a penalty on an enterprise for any
  violation described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a). The
  amount of a civil penalty under this subparagraph shall be determined in
  light of the facts and circumstances, but shall not exceed $5,000 for each
  day that a violation continues.
  (B) EXCEPTION- The amount of a civil penalty for a failure to make a good
  faith effort to comply with an approved housing plan under section 509
  shall not exceed $10,000.
  (2) SECOND TIER- The Director may impose a penalty on an enterprise,
  executive officer, or director in an amount not to exceed $10,000 for an
  officer or director, or $25,000 for an enterprise, for each day that such
  violation or conduct continues, if the Director finds that the violation
  or conduct described in subsection (a)--
  (A) is part of a pattern of misconduct, or
  (B) involved recklessness and caused or would be likely to cause a material
  loss to the enterprise.
  (3) THIRD TIER- The Director may impose a penalty on an enterprise,
  executive officer, or director in an amount not to exceed $100,000 for
  an officer or director, or $1,000,000 for an enterprise, for each day
  that such violation or conduct continues, if the Director finds that the
  violation or conduct described in subsection (a) was knowing and caused
  or would be likely to cause a substantial loss to the enterprise.
  (c) ASSESSMENT-
  (1) WRITTEN NOTICE- Any penalty imposed under this section may be assessed
  and collected by the Director by written notice.
  (2) PROHIBITION AGAINST REIMBURSEMENT OR INDEMNIFICATION- An enterprise
  may not reimburse or indemnify any individual for any penalty imposed
  under subsection (b)(3).
  (3) FINALITY OF ASSESSMENT- If a hearing is not requested pursuant to
  subsection (f), the penalty assessment contained in a written notice shall
  constitute a final and unappealable order.
  (d) AUTHORITY TO MODIFY OR REMIT PENALTY- The Director may compromise,
  modify, or remit any penalty assessed under this section.
  (e) MITIGATING FACTORS- In determining the amount of any penalty under
  this section, the Director shall take into account the appropriateness of
  the penalty with respect to--
  (1) the financial resources and good faith of the enterprise, director,
  or executive officer charged;
  (2) the gravity of the violation;
  (3) the history of previous violations; and
  (4) such other matters as justice may require.
  (f) HEARING- A party against whom a penalty is assessed under this section
  shall be afforded a hearing if the party submits a request for such hearing
  not later than 20 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment.
  (g) COLLECTION-
  (1) REFERRAL- If the enterprise, director, or executive officer fails to
  pay a penalty that has become final, the Director may recover the amount
  assessed by filing an action in the United States District Court for the
  District of Columbia.
  (2) APPROPRIATENESS OF PENALTY NOT REVIEWABLE- In an action to collect
  the amount assessed, the validity and appropriateness of the penalty shall
  not be subject to review.
  (h) DEPOSIT- All penalties collected under authority of this section shall
  be deposited into the General Fund of the Treasury.
  (i) APPLICABILITY- This section shall apply only to conduct, a failure,
  a breach, or a violation that occurs on or after the effective date of
  this Act.
SEC. 306. NOTICE UNDER THIS TITLE AFTER SEPARATION FROM SERVICE.
  The resignation, termination of employment or participation, or separation
  of a director or executive officer of an enterprise shall not affect
  the jurisdiction and authority of the Director to issue any notice and
  proceed under this title against any such director or executive officer,
  if such notice is served before the end of the 2-year period beginning on
  the date such director or executive officer ceased to be associated with
  the enterprise.
SEC. 307. PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTION.
  Nothing in this Act creates a private right of action on behalf of any person
  against an enterprise, or any director or executive officer of an enterprise,
  or impairs any existing private right of action under other applicable law.
SEC. 308. SUBPOENA POWER.
  (a) POWERS- In the course of, or in connection with, any examination,
  administrative proceeding, claim, or investigation under this Act, the
  Director may--
  (1) administer oaths and affirmations,
  (2) take testimony under oath, and
  (3) issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas issued by the Director.
  (b) JURISDICTION- The attendance of witnesses and the production of
  documents provided for in this section may be required from any place
  subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place
  where such examination or proceeding is being conducted.
  (c) ENFORCEMENT- The Director, in examining an enterprise, or any party
  to proceedings under this title may apply to the United States District
  Court for the District of Columbia, or the United States district court
  for the judicial district (or the United States court in any territory)
  where the witness resides or carries on business, for enforcement of any
  subpoena issued pursuant to this section.
  (d) FEES AND EXPENSES- A witness subpoenaed under this section shall be paid
  the same fees that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United
  States. A court having jurisdiction of a proceeding under this section
  may allow to any such witness such reasonable expenses and attorneys'
  fees as it determines just and proper. Such expenses and fees shall be
  paid by the enterprise or from its assets.
SEC. 309. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF FINAL ORDERS AND AGREEMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall make available to the public--
  (1) any written agreement or other written statement for which a violation
  may be redressed by the Director or any modification to or termination
  thereof, unless the Director, in the Director's discretion, determines
  that public disclosure would be contrary to the public interest;
  (2) any order that is issued with respect to any administrative enforcement
  proceeding initiated by the Director under this title and that has become
  final in accordance with section 303; and
  (3) any modification to or termination of any final order made public
  pursuant to this paragraph.
  (b) HEARINGS- All hearings on the record with respect to any notice of
  charges issued by the Director shall be open to the public, unless the
  Director, in the Director's discretion, determines that holding an open
  hearing would be contrary to the public interest.
  (c) DELAY OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE UNDER EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES- If the
  Director makes a determination in writing that the public disclosure of
  any final order pursuant to subsection (a) would seriously threaten the
  financial health or security of the enterprise, the Director may delay
  the public disclosure of such order for a reasonable time.
  (d) DOCUMENTS FILED UNDER SEAL IN PUBLIC ENFORCEMENT HEARINGS- The Director
  may file any document or part thereof under seal in any administrative
  enforcement hearing commenced by the Director if the Director determines
  in writing that disclosure thereof would be contrary to the public interest.
  (e) RETENTION OF DOCUMENTS- The Director shall keep and maintain a record,
  for not less than 6 years, of all documents described in subsection (a)
  and all informal enforcement agreements and other supervisory actions
  and supporting documents issued with respect to or in connection with any
  administrative enforcement proceeding initiated by the Director under this
  title or any other law.
  (f) DISCLOSURES TO CONGRESS- No provision of this section shall be
  construed to authorize the withholding, or to prohibit the disclosure,
  of any information to the Congress or any committee or subcommittee thereof.
TITLE IV--CONSERVATORSHIP
SEC. 401. APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR.
  (a) APPOINTMENT- The Director may, after determining that alternative
  remedial actions are not satisfactory, appoint a conservator to take
  possession and control of an enterprise, whenever the Director determines
  that--
  (1) the enterprise is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact
  business, and the unsafe or unsound condition threatens the ability of
  the enterprise to continue as a viable concern or threatens to cause the
  depletion of substantially all of the capital of the enterprise;
  (2) the enterprise has concealed or is concealing its books, papers,
  records, or assets, or has refused or is refusing to submit its books,
  papers, records, or affairs for inspection to any examiner or any lawful
  agent of the Director; or
  (3) the enterprise has willfully violated or is willfully violating a
  cease-and-desist order which has become final.
  (b) APPOINTMENT BY CONSENT- The Director may appoint a conservator to take
  possession and control of an enterprise if the enterprise, by resolution
  of a majority of its board of directors or shareholders, consents to
  the appointment.
  (c) NOTICE AND HEARING-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Before appointing a conservator pursuant to subsection
  (a), the Director shall provide written notice to the enterprise of the
  basis for the Director's proposed action and shall provide the enterprise
  with an opportunity for a hearing on the record.
  (2) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Director may appoint
  a conservator without providing notice or a hearing to the enterprise,
  if the Director determines, pending completion of the proceedings under
  paragraph (1), that the conduct or violation by the enterprise is likely to--
  (A) cause insolvency of the enterprise;
  (B) cause a significant depletion of the capital of the enterprise; or
  (C) otherwise cause irreparable harm to the enterprise;
  prior to the completion of such proceedings.
  (d) QUALIFICATIONS OF CONSERVATOR- The conservator may be--
  (1) the Director, or
  (2) any person, that--
  (A) has no claim against, or financial interest in, the enterprise or
  other basis for a conflict of interest, and
  (B) has the financial and management expertise necessary to direct the
  operations and affairs of the enterprise.
  (e) Judicial Review-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 20 days after the initial appointment
  of a conservator pursuant to this section, the enterprise may bring an
  action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
  for an order requiring the Director to terminate the appointment of the
  conservator. The court, upon consideration of the record, shall dismiss
  the action to terminate the appointment of the conservator or shall
  direct the Director to terminate the appointment of the conservator. If
  the conservator was appointed pursuant to subsection (c)(2), the court
  shall make such determination on the merits.
  (2) CONSENSUAL APPOINTMENTS- A consensual appointment of a conservator
  under subsection (b) is not subject to judicial review.
  (3) LIMITATION ON REMEDIES- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
  no court may take any action regarding the removal of a conservator,
  or restrain, or affect the exercise of powers or functions of, a conservator.
  (f) REPLACEMENT OF CONSERVATOR- The Director may, without notice or hearing,
  replace a conservator with another conservator. Such replacement  is not
  subject to judicial review and shall not affect the enterprise's right
  under subsection (d) to obtain judicial review of the Director's original
  decision to appoint a conservator.
SEC. 402. POWERS OF A CONSERVATOR.
  (a) POWERS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- A conservator has all the powers of the directors and
  officers of the enterprise unless the Director, in the order of appointment,
  limits the conservator's authority. In addition, a conservator has all the
  powers of shareholders that relate to the management of the enterprise,
  including the power to elect directors.
  (2) ADDITIONAL POWER- A conservator has the power to avoid any security
  interest taken by a creditor with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
  the enterprise or the creditors of the enterprise.
  (3) STAY- Not later than 45 days after appointment or 45 days after receipt
  of actual notice of an action or proceeding that is pending at the time
  of appointment, a conservator may request that any action or proceeding
  to which the conservator or the enterprise is or may become a party,
  be stayed for a period not to exceed 45 days after the request.
  (b) EXPENSES- All expenses of a conservatorship shall be paid by the
  enterprise and shall be a lien upon the enterprise which shall have priority
  over any other lien.
SEC. 403. TERMINATION OF CONSERVATORSHIP.
  (a) IN GENERAL- At any time the Director determines that it may safely be
  done and that it would be in the public interest, the Director may terminate
  a conservatorship subject to such terms, conditions, and limitations as
  the Director may prescribe by written order.
  (b) ENFORCEMENT AS FINAL CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER- Any terms, conditions,
  and limitations that the Director may prescribe under subsection (a) shall
  be enforceable under the provisions of section 304, to the same extent as
  an order issued pursuant to section 301 which has become final.
  (c) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Not later than 20 days after the date of the termination
  of the conservatorship or the imposition of an order under subsection
  (a), whichever is later, an enterprise may bring an action in the United
  States District Court for the District of Columbia for an order requiring
  the Director to terminate the order.
SEC. 404. LIABILITY PROTECTION.
  (a) FEDERAL AGENCY AND EMPLOYEES- In a case in which the conservator is the
  Director, the provisions of chapters 161 and 171 of title 28, United States
  Code, shall apply with respect to the conservator's liability for acts or
  omissions performed in the course of the duties and responsibilities of
  the conservatorship.
  (b) OTHER CONSERVATORS- In a case in which the conservator is not the
  Director, the conservator shall not be liable for damages in tort or
  otherwise for acts or omissions performed in the course of the duties and
  responsibilities of the conservatorship, unless such acts or omissions
  constitute gross negligence or intentional tortious conduct.
  (c) INDEMNIFICATION- The Director shall have authority to indemnify the
  conservator on such terms as the Director determines proper.
SEC. 405. ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- A conservator may enforce any contract described in
  subsection (b), notwithstanding any provision of the contract providing for
  the termination, default, acceleration, or other exercise of rights upon,
  or solely by reason of, the insolvency of the enterprise or the appointment
  of a conservator.
  (b) CONTRACTS ENFORCEABLE- If the Director--
  (1) determines that the continued enforceability of a class of contracts
  is necessary to the achievement of the conservator's purpose; and
  (2) specifically describes that class of contracts in a regulation or
  order issued for the purpose of this section;
any contract that is within that class of contracts is enforceable under
subsection (a).
  (c) APPLICABILITY- This section and the regulation or order issued under
  this section shall apply to contracts entered into, modified, extended,
  or renewed after the effective date of the regulation or order.
TITLE V--HOUSING
SEC. 501. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall establish, by regulation, housing
  goals for each enterprise. The housing goals shall include a low- and
  moderate-income housing goal, a special affordable housing goal, and a
  central city, rural area, and other underserved areas housing goal. The
  Director shall implement this title in a manner consistent with section
  301(3) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act and section
  301(b)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act.
  (b) ADJUSTMENT OF HOUSING GOALS- Except as otherwise set forth in this Act,
  the Director may, from year to year, adjust any housing goal established
  under this title.
  (c) COMPLIANCE WITH HOUSING GOALS- Any mortgage purchased by an enterprise
  shall simultaneously contribute to the achievement of each housing goal
  established under this title for which the mortgage purchase qualifies.
SEC. 502. LOW- AND MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING GOAL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall establish an annual goal for the purchase
  of mortgages secured by housing for low- and moderate-income families.
  (b) TRANSITION RULE-
  (1) IN GENERAL- During the transition period, an interim target for low-
  and moderate-income mortgage purchases for each enterprise is established
  at 30 percent of the total number of dwelling units financed by mortgage
  purchases of the enterprise.
  (2) ACHIEVEMENT OF THE INTERIM TARGET FOR LOW- AND MODERATE-INCOME MORTGAGE
  PURCHASES- During the transition period, the Director shall establish
  separate annual goals for each enterprise, the achievement of which would
  require, to the extent feasible, that--
  (A) each enterprise improve its performance relative to the interim target,
  annually; and
  (B) in the case of an enterprise that does not meet the interim target,
  the enterprise be prepared to meet the interim target in subsequent years.
  (3) DEFINITION- As used in this subsection, the term `transition period'
  means the 2-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
  (c) FACTORS TO BE APPLIED BY THE DIRECTOR- In establishing the housing goal
  for an enterprise under this section, the Director shall take into account--
  (1) appropriate economic, housing, and demographic data,
  (2) the performance and effort of the enterprise toward achieving the
  goals in prior calendar years,
  (3) the size of the conventional mortgage market serving low- and
  moderate-income families relative to the size of the overall conventional
  mortgage market,
  (4) national housing needs,
  (5) the ability of the enterprise to lead the industry in making mortgage
  credit available for low- and moderate-income families, and
  (6) the need to maintain the sound financial condition of the enterprise.
  (d) USE OF BORROWER AND TENANT INCOME-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Director shall monitor each enterprise's performance
  in carrying out this section and shall evaluate that performance based on--
  (A) in the case of an owner-occupied dwelling, the mortgagor's income at
  the time of origination of the mortgage; or
  (B) in the case of a rental dwelling--
  (i) the income of the prospective or actual tenants of the property,
  where such data are available; or
  (ii) the rent levels affordable to low- and moderate-income families,
  where the data referred to in clause (i) are not available.
  (2) AFFORDABILITY- For the purpose of paragraph (1)(B)(ii), a rent level
  is affordable if it does not exceed 30 percent of the maximum income level
  of the income categories referred to in this section, with appropriate
  adjustments for unit size as measured by the number of bedrooms.
SEC. 503. SPECIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOAL.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOAL-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Director shall establish an annual special affordable
  housing goal under this section that is not less than 1 percent of the dollar
  amount of the mortgage purchases by the enterprise for the previous year.
  (2) STANDARDS- In establishing an enterprise's special affordable housing
  goal, the Director shall take into account--
  (A) data submitted to the Director in connection with the special affordable
  housing goal for previous years,
  (B) the performance and effort of the enterprise toward achieving the
  special affordable housing goal in prior calendar years,
  (C) national housing needs within the income categories set forth in
  this section,
  (D) the ability of the enterprise to lead the industry in making mortgage
  credit available for low-income families, and
  (E) the need to maintain the sound financial condition of the enterprise.
  (b) Transition Rules-
  (1) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION MORTGAGE PURCHASES FOR THE
  TRANSITION PERIOD- During the transition period, the special affordable
  housing goal for the Federal National Mortgage Association shall include
  mortgage purchases of not less than $2,000,000,000, with one-half of such
  purchases directed to 1-to-4 family housing and one-half to multifamily
  housing.
  (2) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION MORTGAGE PURCHASES FOR THE
  TRANSITION PERIOD- During the transition period, the special affordable
  housing goal for the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation shall include
  mortgage purchases of not less than $1,500,000,000, with one-half of such
  purchases directed to 1-to-4 family housing and one-half to multifamily
  housing.
  (3) INCOME CHARACTERISTICS FOR TRANSITION PERIOD MORTGAGE PURCHASES-
  (A) MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES- Purchases of multifamily housing mortgages
  under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be directed in the following proportions:
  (i) 45 percent for multifamily housing affordable to families whose incomes
  do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area; and
  (ii) 55 percent for multifamily housing in which--
  (I) at least 20 percent of the units are affordable to families whose
  incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the median income for the area; or
  (II) at least 40 percent of the units are affordable to families whose
  incomes do not exceed 60 percent of the median income for the area.
  (B) SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES- Purchases of 1-to-4 family housing mortgages
  under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be directed in the following proportions:
  (i) 45 percent for mortgages for families whose incomes do not exceed 80
  percent of the median income for the area and who live in census tracts
  in which the median income does not exceed 80 percent of the area median; and
  (ii) 55 percent for mortgages for families whose incomes do not exceed 60
  percent of the median income for the area.
  (C) COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOALS- Only the portion of
  multifamily housing mortgage purchases by an enterprise that are attributable
  to units affordable to families whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of
  the median income for the area shall be credited toward compliance with
  the special affordable housing goals set forth in subparagraph (A)(ii).
  (4) DEFINITION- As used in this subsection, the term `transition period'
  means the 2-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
  (c) USE OF BORROWER AND TENANT INCOME-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Director shall monitor each enterprise's performance
  in carrying out this section and shall evaluate that performance based on--
  (A) in the case of an owner-occupied dwelling the mortgagor's income at
  the time of origination of the mortgage; or
  (B) in the case of a rental dwelling--
  (i) the income of the prospective or actual tenants of the property,
  where such data are available; or
  (ii) the rent levels affordable to low-income families, where the data
  referred to in clause (i) are not available.
  (2) AFFORDABILITY- For the purpose of paragraph (1)(B)(ii), a rent level
  is affordable if it does not exceed 30 percent of the maximum income level
  of the income categories referred to in this section, with appropriate
  adjustments for unit size as measured by the number of bedrooms.
SEC. 504. CENTRAL CITY, RURAL AREA, AND OTHER UNDERSERVED AREAS HOUSING GOAL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall establish an annual goal for the purchase
  of mortgages secured by housing located in central cities, rural areas,
  and other underserved areas.
  (b) TRANSITION RULE-
  (1) IN GENERAL- During the transition period, an interim target for
  purchases of mortgages by each enterprise secured by housing located in
  central cities is established at 30 percent of the total number of dwelling
  units financed by mortgage purchases of the enterprise.
  (2) ACHIEVEMENT OF THE INTERIM TARGET FOR CENTRAL CITY  MORTGAGE PURCHASES-
  During the transition period, the Director shall establish separate annual
  goals for each enterprise, the achievement of which would require, to the
  extent feasible, that--
  (A) each enterprise improve its performance relative to the interim target,
  annually; and
  (B) in the case of an enterprise that does not meet the interim target,
  such enterprise be prepared to meet the interim target in subsequent years.
  (3) DEFINITIONS-
  (A) TRANSITION PERIOD- As used in this subsection, the term `transition
  period' means the 2-year period beginning on the date of enactment of
  this Act.
  (B) CENTRAL CITY- As used in this subsection, the term `central city'
  means any political subdivision designated as a central city by the Office
  of Management and Budget.
  (c) FACTORS TO BE APPLIED BY THE DIRECTOR- In establishing the housing goal
  for an enterprise under this section, the Director shall take into account--
  (1) appropriate economic, housing, and demographic data,
  (2) the performance and effort of the enterprise toward achieving the
  goals established under this section in prior calendar years,
  (3) the size of the central city, rural area, and other underserved
  areas conventional mortgage market relative to the size of the overall
  conventional mortgage market,
  (4) national urban needs,
  (5) the ability of the enterprise to lead the industry in making mortgage
  credit available throughout the Nation, including central cities, rural
  areas, and other underserved areas, and
  (6) the need to maintain the sound financial condition of the enterprise.
  (d) LOCATION OF PROPERTIES- The Director shall monitor each enterprise's
  performance in carrying out this section and shall evaluate that performance
  based on the location of the properties securing mortgages purchased by
  each enterprise.
SEC. 505. OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
  To meet the low- and moderate-income housing goal under section 502, the
  special affordable housing goal under section 503, and the central city,
  rural area, and other underserved areas housing goal under section 504,
  each enterprise shall--
  (1) design programs and products that facilitate the use of assistance
  provided by the Federal Government and State and local governments;
  (2) develop relationships with nonprofit and for-profit organizations
  that develop and finance housing and with State and local governments,
  including housing finance agencies;
  (3) take affirmative steps to--
  (A) help primary lenders make housing credit available in areas with
  concentrations of low-income and minority families, and
  (B) assist insured depository institutions in meeting their obligations
  under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977,
that include developing appropriate and prudent underwriting standards,
business practices, repurchase requirements, pricing, fees, and procedures; and
  (4) develop the institutional capacity to help finance low- and
  moderate-income housing, including housing for first-time homebuyers.
SEC. 506. MONITORING COMPLIANCE WITH HOUSING GOALS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall establish guidelines to measure the
  extent of compliance with the housing goals established under this title.
  The guidelines may assign full credit, partial credit, or no credit toward
  compliance with the housing goals to different categories of mortgage
  purchase activities depending upon such criteria as the Director deems
  appropriate.
  (b) SPECIAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOALS-
  (1) ACTIVITIES THAT SHALL RECEIVE FULL CREDIT TOWARD COMPLIANCE WITH GOALS-
  The Director shall give full credit toward compliance with the special
  affordable housing goals to the following activities:
  (A) The purchase or securitization of federally insured or guaranteed
  mortgages, if--
  (i) such mortgages cannot be readily securitized through the Government
  National Mortgage Association or other Federal agency; and
  (ii) participation of an enterprise substantially enhances the affordability
  of the housing securing such mortgages.
  (B) The purchase or refinancing of existing, seasoned portfolios of
  loans, if--
  (i) the seller is engaged in a specific program to use the proceeds of
  such sales to originate additional loans that meet the special affordable
  housing goals; and
  (ii) such purchases or refinancings support additional lending for housing
  serving low-income families.
  (C) The purchase of direct loans made by the Resolution Trust Corporation
  or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, if such loans are--
  (i) not guaranteed by the agencies themselves or other Federal agencies; and
  (ii) made with recourse provisions similar to those offered through private
  mortgage insurance or other conventional sellers.
  (2) EXCLUSION- No credit toward compliance with the special affordable
  housing goal may be given to the purchase or securitization of mortgages
  associated with the refinancing of existing enterprise portfolios.
SEC. 507. DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ENTERPRISES.
  (a) SINGLE FAMILY DATA-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Each enterprise shall collect, maintain, and provide
  to the Director, in a useful form, data relating to its single family
  mortgages. Such data shall include--
  (A) the income, census tract location, race, and gender of mortgagors;
  (B) the loan-to-value ratios of purchased mortgages at the time of
  origination;
  (C) whether a particular mortgage purchased is newly originated or seasoned;
  (D) the number of units (1-to-4 family) and whether they are owner-occupied;
  and
  (E) other characteristics deemed appropriate by the Director, to the
  extent practicable.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The data required to be collected under this subsection
  shall cover single family mortgages purchased after the date determined
  by the Director, but not later than December 31, 1992.
  (B) SEASONED MORTGAGES- For mortgages purchased after the date referred
  to in subsection (a) but originated before that date, only data available
  to the enterprise is required to be collected under this subsection.
  (b) MULTIFAMILY DATA-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Each enterprise shall collect, maintain, and provide to
  the Director, in a useful form, data relating to its multifamily housing
  mortgages. Such data shall include--
  (A) census tract location,
  (B) tenant income levels and characteristics (to the extent practicable),
  (C) rent levels,
  (D) mortgage characteristics (such as number of units financed per mortgage
  and size of loans),
  (E) mortgagor characteristics (such as nonprofit, for-profit, limited
  equity cooperatives),
  (F) use of funds (such as new construction, rehabilitation, refinancing),
  (G) type of originating institution, and
  (H) other information deemed appropriate by the Director, to the extent
  practicable.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The data required to be collected under this subsection
  shall cover multifamily mortgages purchased after the date determined by
  the Director, but not later than December 31, 1992.
  (B) SEASONED MORTGAGES- For mortgages purchased after the date referred to
  in subparagraph (A) but originated before that date, only data available
  to the enterprise is required to be collected under this subsection.
  (c) PUBLIC ACCESS TO DATA-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Director shall make the data required by subsections
  (a) and (b) available to the public in useful forms, including forms
  accessible by computers.
  (2) ACCESS-
  (A) PROPRIETARY DATA- The Director may not make available to the public
  data that the Director determines are proprietary pursuant to section 515.
  (B) EXCEPTION- The Director shall not restrict access to the data provided
  in accordance with subsection (a)(1)(A).
  (3) FEES- The Director may charge reasonable fees to cover the cost of
  making the data available to the public.
  (d) ANNUAL REPORT-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Each enterprise shall submit to the Congress and the
  Director a report on its activities under this title.
  (2) CONTENTS- The report referred to in paragraph (1) shall--
  (A) include in aggregate form and by appropriate category, the dollar
  volume and number of mortgages purchased for owner-occupied and rental
  properties related to each of the annual housing goals;
  (B) include in aggregate form and by appropriate category, the number of
  families served, the income class, race, and gender of homebuyers served,
  the income class of tenants of rental housing (based on availability of
  information), the characteristics of the census tracts, and the geographic
  distribution of the housing financed;
  (C) include the extent to which the mortgages purchased by the enterprise
  have been used in conjunction with public subsidy programs under Federal law;
  (D) include the proportion of single family mortgages purchased that
  have been made to first-time homebuyers, as soon as providing such
  data is practicable and identify any special programs (or revisions to
  conventional practices) facilitating homeownership opportunities for
  first-time homebuyers;
  (E) include in aggregate form and by appropriate category the data reported
  under subsection (a)(1)(B);
  (F) level of securitization versus portfolio activity;
  (G) assess the underwriting standards, business practices, repurchase
  requirements, pricing, fees, and procedures, that affect the purchase
  of mortgages for low- and moderate-income families, or that may yield
  disparate results based on the race of the borrower, including revisions
  thereto to promote affordable housing or fair lending;
  (H) describe trends in both the primary and secondary multifamily markets,
  including a description of the progress made, and any factors impeding
  progress, toward standardization and securitization of mortgage products
  for multifamily housing;
  (I) describe trends in the delinquency and default rates of mortgages secured
  by housing for low- and moderate-income families that have been purchased by
  each enterprise, including a comparison of such trends with delinquency and
  default information for mortgage products serving households with incomes
  above the median level that have been purchased by each enterprise, and
  evaluate the impact of such trends on the standards and levels of risk of
  mortgage products serving low- and moderate-income families;
  (J) describe in the aggregate its seller servicer network, including
  the volume of mortgages purchased from minority-owned, women-owned, and
  community-oriented lenders, and any efforts to facilitate relationships
  with such lenders;
  (K) describe the activities undertaken with nonprofit and for-profit
  organizations and with State and local governments and housing finance
  agencies, including how its activities support the objectives of local
  comprehensive housing affordability strategies; and
  (L) contain any other information deemed relevant by the Director.
  (3) AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Each enterprise shall make the reports under this
  subsection available to the public at the principal and regional offices
  of the enterprise.
  (B) EXCLUSION OF PROPRIETARY DATA- Information that is contained in any
  report that the Director has determined is proprietary shall be subject
  to the provisions of section 515.
SEC. 508. ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR.
  (a) IN GENERAL- After reviewing and analyzing the reports submitted under
  section 507(d), the Director shall submit a report, as part of its report
  under section 109 of this Act, on the extent to which each enterprise is
  achieving the specified annual goals and general purposes established by law.
  (b) CONTENTS- The report shall--
  (1) aggregate and analyze census tract data to assess each enterprise's
  compliance with the central city, rural area, and other underserved areas
  housing goal and to show levels of business in central cities, rural areas,
  low- and moderate-income census tracts, minority census tracts, and other
  geographical areas deemed appropriate by the Director;
  (2) aggregate and analyze data on income to assess each enterprise's
  compliance with the low and moderate and special affordable housing goals;
  (3) aggregate and analyze data on income, race, and gender by census tract
  and compare  such data with larger demographic, housing, and economic trends;
  (4) examine actions that each enterprise has undertaken and could
  undertake regarding underwriting standards, business practices, repurchase
  requirements, pricing, fees, and procedures to promote and expand the
  annual goals specified under sections 502, 503, and 504, as well as the
  general purposes established by law;
  (5) review trends in both the primary and secondary multifamily markets,
  describing--
  (A) the availability of mortgage credit and liquidity; and
  (B) the progress made, and any factors impeding progress, toward
  standardization and securitization of mortgage products for multifamily
  housing;
  (6) examine actions each enterprise has undertaken and could undertake to
  promote and expand opportunities for first-time homebuyers; and
  (7) describe any actions taken with respect to originators found to violate
  fair lending procedures.
SEC. 509. COMPLIANCE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall monitor and enforce compliance with
  the goals established under sections 502, 503, and 504.
  (b) NOTICE AND HEARING- If the Director determines that an enterprise
  has failed to meet, or that there is a substantial probability that an
  enterprise will fail to meet, any goal established under section 502, 503,
  or 504, the Director shall provide written notice to the enterprise and
  an opportunity to review and supplement the administrative record at an
  administrative hearing.
  (c) HOUSING PLANS-
  (1) PLAN REQUIRED- If the Director finds, after any hearing pursuant to
  subsection (b), that the achievement of the housing goal was feasible,
  after consideration of market and economic conditions, the Director shall
  require the enterprise to submit a housing plan for approval by the Director.
  (2) CONTENTS- Each housing plan shall be a feasible plan describing the
  specific actions the enterprise will take--
  (A) to achieve the goal for the next succeeding calendar year; or
  (B) in a case when the Director determines that there is a substantial
  probability that the enterprise will fail to meet a goal in the current year,
  to make such improvements as are reasonable in the remainder of that year.
The plan shall contain sufficient specificity to enable the Director to
monitor compliance periodically.
  (3) DEADLINES FOR SUBMISSION- The Director shall establish a deadline
  for submission of a housing plan that is not more than 45 days after the
  enterprise is notified in writing that a plan is required. The Director
  may extend the deadline for a specified period of time.
  (4) APPROVAL- The Director shall approve or disapprove a plan within 30
  days. The Director shall approve any plan that the Director determines
  is likely to succeed, and conforms with the relevant charter act and this
  Act and other applicable law and regulation. The Director may extend the
  period for approval or disapproval for an additional 30 days.
  (5) DISAPPROVAL- If the housing plan initially submitted by the enterprise
  is disapproved, the Director shall provide written notice of the reasons
  therefor, and shall require the enterprise to submit, with a reasonable
  period of time, but not more than 30 days unless the Director determines
  that a longer period is in the public interest, an amended housing plan
  acceptable to the Director.
  (6) HEARING- If the Director disapproves a housing plan, the Director
  shall provide the enterprise with an opportunity to review and supplement
  the administrative record in an administrative hearing.
  (d) ENFORCEMENT-
  (1) IN GENERAL- If the Director determines that an enterprise has failed
  to make a good faith effort to comply with an approved housing plan,
  the Director--
  (A) may, under section 301, issue and serve upon the enterprise an order
  to comply with the housing plan; and
  (B) may, under section 305, assess and collect from the enterprise a
  civil penalty.
  (2) LIMITATION- The Director shall not, for failure to comply with an
  approved housing plan--
  (A) issue any order under section 301, except as described in paragraph
  (1)(A); or
  (B) assess any civil penalty under section 305,  except as described in
  paragraph (1)(B).
  (3) ADDITIONAL TRANSITION PERIOD LIMITATION- The Director shall take no
  actions described in paragraph (1) during the 2-year period following
  the date of enactment of this Act unless the Director determines that the
  enterprise has blatantly disregarded an approved housing plan.
  (e) TRANSITION PERIOD REPORTS AND HEARINGS-
  (1) REPORTS- Within 45 days of the establishment of any housing goals
  required by this title during the 2-year period following the date of
  enactment, each enterprise shall submit to the Director, the Committee
  on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee
  on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives a
  report describing the actions the enterprise plans to take in order to
  meet such goals.
  (2) HEARINGS- Not later than 45 days after the submission of a report under
  paragraph (1), the chief executive officers of the enterprises shall,
  if requested, appear before each committee referred to in paragraph (2)
  to explain the proposed actions described in their respective plans.
  (f) AUDIT POWERS- The Director or the Comptroller General of the United
  States, at the request of the Director or any Member of Congress, is
  authorized to examine records and audit reports to the extent necessary
  to assess compliance with--
  (1) the goals established under sections 502, 503, and 504,
  (2) any other goals established by the Director to achieve the charter
  purposes of an enterprise, and
  (3) any housing plan approved under this section.
SEC. 510. ADVISORY COUNCIL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 4 months after the date of enactment of
  this Act, each enterprise shall appoint an Affordable Housing Advisory
  Council to advise it regarding possible methods for promoting affordable
  housing for low- and moderate-income families.
  (b) MEMBERSHIP- Each Council shall consist of 15 individuals, who
  shall include representatives of community-based and other nonprofit and
  for-profit organizations and State and local government agencies actively
  engaged in the promotion, development, or financing of housing for low-
  and moderate-income families.
SEC. 511. GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION.
  (a) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION- Section 301 of the Federal
  National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1716) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5);
  (2) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3); and
  (3) by inserting before paragraph (5), as redesignated, the following:
  `(4) promote access to mortgage credit throughout the Nation (including
  central cities and rural areas) by increasing the liquidity of mortgage
  investments, including facilitating credit secured by mortgages to secondary
  market participants, and improving the distribution of investment capital
  available for residential mortgage financing; and'.
  (b) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION- Section 301(b) of the Federal
  Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451 note) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(4) to promote access to mortgage credit throughout the Nation (including
  central cities and rural areas) by increasing the liquidity of mortgage
  investments, including facilitating credit secured by mortgages to secondary
  market participants, and improving the distribution of investment capital
  available for residential mortgage financing.'.
SEC. 512. MULTIFAMILY  MORTGAGE ACTIVITIES.
  (a) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION- Section 301 of the Federal
  National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1716) is amended
  by striking `home' each place it appears in paragraphs (1) and (3) and
  inserting `residential'.
  (b) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION- Section 301(b) of the Federal
  Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451 note) is amended
  by striking `home' each place it appears in paragraphs (1) and (3) and
  inserting `residential'.
SEC. 513. BOARD OF DIRECTORS QUALIFICATIONS.
  (a) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION-
  (1) MEMBER WITH A DEMONSTRATED COMMITMENT TO LOW-INCOME HOUSING-
  Section 308(b) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act
  (12 U.S.C. 1723(b)) is amended by inserting in the second sentence after
  `lending industry,' the following: `at least one person who has demonstrated
  a career commitment to the provision of housing for low-income households,'.
  (2) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a)(1) shall apply to
  the annual appointments made by the President of members to the Board of
  Directors of the Federal National Mortgage Association that occur after
  the date of the enactment of this Act.
  (b) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION-
  (1) MEMBER WITH A DEMONSTRATED COMMITMENT TO LOW-INCOME HOUSING- Section
  303(a)(2)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12
  U.S.C. 1452(a)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting in the second sentence after
  `lending industry,' the following: `at least 1 person who has demonstrated
  a career commitment to the provision of housing for low-income households,'.
  (2) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (b)(1) shall apply to
  the annual appointments made by the President of members to the Board of
  Directors of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation that occur after
  the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 514. FAIR HOUSING.
  The Director shall--
  (1) subject to the Secretary's general authority to enforce the Fair Housing
  Act, by regulation prohibit each enterprise from discriminating in any
  manner in the purchase of any mortgage because of race, color, religion,
  sex, handicap, familial status, age, or national origin, including any
  consideration of the age or location of the dwelling or the age of the
  neighborhood or census tract where the dwelling is located in a manner
  that has a discriminatory effect;
  (2) subject to the Secretary's general authority to enforce the Fair
  Housing Act, by regulation require each enterprise to have single family
  mortgage and multifamily mortgage underwriting and appraisal guidelines
  that prohibit the use of lending criteria or the exercise of lending
  policies by mortgage lenders that sell mortgages to the enterprise, that
  have the effect of discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion,
  sex, handicap, familial status, age, or national origin, including any
  consideration of the age or location of the dwelling or the age of the
  neighborhood or census tract where the dwelling is located in a manner
  that has a discriminatory effect;
  (3) by regulation, require an enterprise to submit certain data to assist
  the Secretary in investigating whether a mortgage lender with which the
  enterprise does business has failed to comply with the Fair Housing Act
  or the Equal Credit Opportunity Act;
  (4) periodically review and comment on each enterprise's underwriting and
  appraisal guidelines;
  (5) seek information from other regulatory and enforcement agencies
  regarding violations by lenders of the laws referred in paragraph (3)
  and make that information available to enterprises; and
  (6) direct an enterprise to undertake various remedial actions, including
  suspension, probation, reprimand, or settlement, against those lenders that
  have in a final adjudication or an administrative hearing on the record
  in accordance with subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States
  Code, been found to have engaged in discriminatory lending practices in
  violation of this subsection, the Fair Housing Act, or the Equal Credit
  Opportunity Act.
SEC. 515. PROHIBITION ON PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director may determine, by regulation or order,
  information that will be accorded treatment as proprietary information. The
  Director shall not provide public access to, or disclose to the public,
  information required to be submitted by an enterprise under section 507
  that the Director determines is proprietary.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDER- Any order issued under subsection (a) shall
  not become effective until 10 days after its issuance.
  (c) NONDISCLOSURE PENDING CONSIDERATION- Nothing in this section authorizes
  the disclosure to, or examination of data by, the public or a representative
  of any person or agency, pending the issuance of a final decision under
  this section.
TITLE VI--CHARTER ACT AMENDMENTS
SEC. 601. AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION CHARTER ACT.
  (a) REMOVAL AUTHORITY OF THE PRESIDENT- Section 308(b) of the Federal
  National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723(b)) is amended
  in the third sentence after `any such' by inserting `appointed'.
  (b) GAO AUDITS- The first sentence of section 309(j) of the Federal
  National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a(j)) is amended
  to read as follows: `The programs, activities, receipts, expenditures, and
  financial transactions of the corporation shall be subject to audit by the
  Comptroller General of the United States under such rules and regulations
  as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General.'.
  (c) CONSTRUCTION- Section 309(i) of the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a) is amended to read as follows:
  `(i) CONSTRUCTION- The powers conferred on the corporation by this title
  shall be exercised in accordance with the goals and purposes of the Federal
  Housing Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992. If the provisions of
  this title conflict with the provisions of the Federal Housing Enterprises
  Regulatory Reform Act of 1992, the provisions of that Act shall control.'.
  (d) CAPITALIZATION- Section 303 of the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1718) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
  `The corporation may issue shares of common stock in return for appropriate
  payments into capital or capital and surplus.';
  (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection:
  `(b) FEES AND EARNINGS-
  `(1) FEES AND CHARGES- The corporation may impose charges or fees, which
  may be regarded as elements of pricing, with the objective that all costs
  and expenses of the operations of the corporation should be within its
  income derived from such operations and that such operations should be
  fully self-supporting.
  `(2) EARNINGS; GENERAL SURPLUS- All earnings from the operations of the
  corporation shall annually be transferred to the general surplus account
  of the corporation. At any time, funds of the general surplus account may,
  in the discretion of the board of directors, be transferred to reserves.';
  (3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new subsection:
  `(c) DISTRIBUTIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), the corporation
  may make such capital distributions as may be declared by the board of
  directors. All capital distributions shall be charged against the general
  surplus account of the corporation.
  `(2) ADEQUATE CAPITALIZATION REQUIRED- The corporation may not make any
  capital distributions that would decrease the capital of the corporation,
  as such term is defined under section 212 of the Federal Housing Enterprises
  Regulatory Reform Act of 1992 to an amount less than that sufficient to
  be classified as adequately capitalized under section 204 of such Act,
  without prior written approval of the Director of the Office of Federal
  Housing Enterprise Oversight.'; and
  (4) in subsection (f)--
  (A) by striking `to make payments' and all that follows through `such
  capital contributions,'; and
  (B) by striking `additional shares of such stock,' and inserting `shares
  of common stock of the corporation'.
  (e) RATIO OF OBLIGATIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 304 of the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1719) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (b), by striking the semicolon in the first sentence
  and all that follows through the end of the second sentence and inserting
  a period; and
  (B) in subsection (e), by striking the fourth sentence.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
  when the first classifications are made under section 204(b).
  (f) ASSESSMENTS FOR THE OFFICE OF SECONDARY MARKET OVERSIGHT- The first
  sentence of section 304(f) of the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1719(f)) is amended by inserting after `section
  309(g)' the following: `of this Act and section 105 of the Federal Housing
  Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992'.
  (g) COMPENSATION- Section 309(d) of the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a(d)) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (2) by striking `as it may determine'
  and inserting the following: `as the board of directors determines
  reasonable and comparable with compensation for employment in positions
  in other similar businesses (including other major financial services
  companies) involving similar duties and responsibilities, except that a
  significant portion of potential compensation of all executive officers
  (as such term is defined in paragraph (3)(C)) of the corporation shall be
  based on the performance of the corporation'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) Not later than June 30, 1993, and annually thereafter, the
  corporation shall submit a report to the Congress on--
  `(i) the comparability of the compensation policies of the corporation
  with the compensation policies of other similar businesses,
  `(ii) in the aggregate, the percentage of total cash compensation and
  payments under employee benefit plans (which shall be defined in a manner
  consistent with the corporation's proxy statement for the annual meeting of
  shareholders for the preceding year) earned by executive officers of the
  corporation during the preceding year that was based on the corporation's
  performance, and
  `(iii) the comparability of the corporation's financial performance with
  the performance of other similar businesses.
The report shall include a copy of the corporation's proxy statement for
the annual meeting of shareholders for the preceding year.
  `(B) The corporation may not enter into any agreement to provide
  any payment of money or other thing of value in connection with the
  termination of employment of any executive officer of the corporation,
  unless such agreement is approved in advance by the Director of the Office
  of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight. Any such payment made pursuant to
  any agreement entered into between July 24, 1991, and the date of enactment
  of the Federal Housing Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992 may be
  cancelled unless such agreement is approved by the Director. The Director
  may not approve any such agreement unless the Director determines that the
  benefits provided under the agreement are comparable to benefits under such
  agreements for officers of other public and private entities involved in
  financial services and housing interests who have comparable duties and
  responsibilities. For purposes of this subparagraph, any renegotiation,
  amendment, or change after July 24, 1991, to any such agreement entered
  into on or before such date shall be considered entering into an agreement.
  `(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `executive officer' has the
  meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Housing Enterprises
  Regulatory Reform Act of 1992.'.
  (h) GENERAL REGULATORY POWERS- Section 309(h) of the Federal National
  Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723a(h)) is repealed.
  (i) STOCK ISSUANCES- The second sentence of section 311 of the Federal
  National Mortgage Association Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1723c) is amended by
  striking all that follows `Commission' and inserting a period.
  (j) APPROVAL- Section 302(b) of the Federal National Mortgage Association
  Charter Act (12 U.S.C. 1717(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by striking `and with the approval of the Secretary
  of Housing and Urban Development,'; and
  (2) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by striking `, with the approval of the
  Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,'.
SEC. 602. AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION ACT.
  (a) REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON MORTGAGE LIMITATIONS- Section 305(c) of the
  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454(c)) is repealed.
  (b) REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON PREJUDGMENT ATTACHMENT- Section 303(f)
  of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(f))
  is amended by striking the last sentence.
  (c) CONSTRUCTION- Section 303 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1452) is amended by adding at the end the following
  subsection:
  `(h) CONSTRUCTION- The powers conferred by this title on the Corporation
  shall be exercised in accordance with the goals and purposes of the Federal
  Housing Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992. If the provisions of
  this title conflict with the provisions of the Federal Housing Enterprises
  Regulatory Reform Act of 1992, the provisions of that Act shall control.'.
  (d) GAO AUDITS- The first sentence of section 307(b) of the Federal Home
  Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1456(b)) is amended to read as
  follows: `The programs, activities, receipts, expenditures, and financial
  transactions of the Corporation shall be subject to audit by the Comptroller
  General of the United States under such rules and regulations as may be
  prescribed by the Comptroller General.'.
  (e) POWERS OF THE CORPORATION- Section 303(c) of the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(c)) is amended by striking the
  second and third sentences.
  (f) REMOVAL AUTHORITY OF PRESIDENT- Section 303(a)(2)(B) of the Federal
  Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(a)(2)(B)) is amended by
  inserting before the period at the end the following: `, except that any
  appointed member may be removed from office by the President for good cause'.
  (g) GENERAL REGULATORY POWERS- Section 303(b) of the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2);
  (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Corporation may make
  such capital distributions as may be declared by the Board of Directors.
  `(B) The Corporation may not make any capital distributions that would
  decrease the capital of the Corporation (as such term is defined in section
  212 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992)
  to an amount less than that sufficient to be classified as adequately
  capitalized under section 204 of such Act, without prior written approval
  of the Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight.'; and
  (3) by striking paragraphs (4), (6), (7), and (8).
  (h) RATIO OF CAPITAL AND OBLIGATIONS- Effective upon the first classification
  made under section 204(b), section 303(b) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1452(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (5).
  (i) COMPENSATION- Section 303 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1452) is amended--
  (1) in clause (9) of the first sentence of subsection (c), by inserting after
  `agents' the following: `as the Board of Directors determines reasonable
  and comparable with compensation for employment in positions in other
  similar businesses (including other major financial services companies)
  involving similar duties and responsibilities, except that a significant
  portion of potential compensation of all executive officers (as such term
  is defined in subsection (i)(3)) of the Corporation shall be based on the
  performance of the Corporation'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(i)(1) Not later than June 30, 1993, and annually thereafter, the
  Corporation shall submit a report to the Congress on--
  `(A) the comparability of the compensation policies of the Corporation
  with the compensation policies of other similar businesses,
  `(B) in the aggregate, the percentage of total cash compensation and
  payments under employee benefit plans (which shall be defined in a manner
  consistent with the Corporation's proxy statement for the annual meeting of
  shareholders for the preceding year) earned by executive officers of the
  Corporation during the preceding year that was based on the Corporation's
  performance, and
  `(C) the comparability of the Corporation's financial performance with
  the performance of other similar businesses.
The report shall include a copy of the Corporation's proxy statement for
the annual meeting of shareholders for the preceding year.
  `(2) Notwithstanding the first sentence of subsection (c), the Corporation
  may not enter into any agreement to provide any payment of money or other
  thing of value in connection with the termination of employment of any
  executive officer of the Corporation, unless such agreement is approved
  in advance by the Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise
  Oversight. Any such payment made pursuant to any agreement entered into
  between July 24, 1991, and the date of enactment of the Federal Housing
  Enterprises Regulatory Reform Act of 1992 may be cancelled unless such
  agreement is approved by the Director. The Director may not approve any
  such agreement unless the Director determines that the benefits provided
  under the agreement are comparable to benefits under such agreements for
  officers of other public and private entities involved in financial services
  and housing interests who have comparable duties and responsibilities. For
  purposes of this paragraph, any renegotiation, amendment, or change after
  July 24, 1991, to any such agreement entered into on or before such date
  shall be considered entering into an agreement.
  `(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term `executive officer' has
  the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Housing Enterprises
  Regulatory Reform Act of 1992.'.
  (j) CAPITAL STOCK- Section 304 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1453) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `The common stock' and all that
  follows and inserting the following: `The common stock of the Corporation
  shall consist of voting common stock, which shall be issued to such holders
  in the manner and amount, and subject to any limitations on concentration
  of ownership, as may be established by the Corporation.';
  (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
  (A) in the first sentence, by striking `nonvoting common stock and the'; and
  (B) by striking the last sentence; and
  (3) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d).
  (k) MORTGAGE SELLERS- Section 305(a)(1) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1454(a)(1)) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by striking `from any Federal home loan bank'
  and all that follows through the end of the sentence.
  (2) in the second sentence, by striking `, and the servicing' and all that
  follows through the end of the sentence and inserting a period.
  (l) DEFINITION OF `RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE'- Section 302(h) of the Federal
  Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1451(h)) is amended in the
  third sentence by striking `made' and all that follows through `305(a)(1)'
  and inserting `or purchased from any public utility carrying out activities
  in accordance with the requirements of title II of the National Energy
  Conservation Policy Act if the residential mortgage to be purchased is a
  loan or advance of credit the original proceeds of which are applied for
  in order to finance the purchase and installation of residential energy
  conservation measures (as defined in section 210(11) of the National Energy
  Conservation Policy Act) in residential real estate'.
TITLE VII--REGULATION OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM
SEC. 701. PRIMACY OF FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS FOR FEDERAL HOUSING
FINANCE BOARD.
  Section 2A(a)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422a(a)(3))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(3) DUTIES-
  `(A) SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS- The primary duty of the Board shall be to
  ensure that the Federal Home Loan Banks operate in a financially safe and
  sound manner.
  `(B) OTHER DUTIES- To the extent consistent with subparagraph (A), the
  duties of the Board shall also be--
  `(i) to supervise the Federal Home Loan Banks;
  `(ii) to ensure that the Federal Home Loan Banks carry out their housing
  finance mission; and
  `(iii) to ensure that the Federal Home Loan Banks remain adequately
  capitalized and able to raise funds in the capital markets.'.
SEC. 702. STUDY REGARDING FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Housing Finance Board, the Comptroller General
  of the United States, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office,
  and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall each conduct a
  study regarding the following topics:
  (1) The appropriate capital standards for the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
  (2) The appropriate relationship between the capital standards for the
  Federal Home Loan Banks and the capital standards under this Act for the
  Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation.
  (3) The appropriate relationship between the capital standards for federally
  insured depository institutions and the capital standards under this Act
  for the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation, especially with regard to similar kinds of on-balance
  sheet and off-balance sheet assets and obligations.
  (4) The advantages and disadvantages of expanding the credit products and
  services of the Federal Home Loan Banks, including a determination of the
  desirability of--
  (A) the purchase by Federal Home Loan Banks of housing-related assets from
  member institutions, and
  (B) the provision by Federal Home Loan Banks of credit enhancements and
  other products to members in addition to advances.
  (5) The advantages and disadvantages of expanding eligible collateral for
  advances by removing the limits on the amount of housing-related assets
  that member institutions can use to collateralize advances.
  (6) The advantages and disadvantages of further measures to expand the
  role of the Federal Home Loan Bank System as a support mechanism for
  community-based lenders and to reinforce the overall role of the Federal
  Home Loan Bank System in housing finance.
  (7) The advantages and disadvantages of further measures to increase
  membership in, and increase the profitability of, the Federal Home Loan
  Bank System by modifying--
  (A) restrictions on membership and stock purchases of nonqualified thrift
  lenders;
  (B) the advance limit imposed on Federal Home Loan Banks to nonqualified
  thrift lenders; and
  (C) the membership requirement for qualified thrift lenders.
  (8) The competitive effect of the mortgage activities of the Federal National
  Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation on the
  home mortgage activities of federally insured depository institutions
  and the cost of such activities to such institutions, the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund, the Bank Insurance Fund, and the Resolution
  Trust Corporation.
  (9) The likelihood that the Federal Home Loan Banks will be able to
  continue to pay the amounts required under the Financial Institutions
  Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.
  (10) The extent to which a reduction in the number of Federal Home Loan
  Banks would reduce noninterest costs.
  (11) The impact that a reduction in the number of Federal Home Loan Banks
  would have on the effectiveness of affordable housing programs.
  (12) The current and prospective impact of the Federal Home Loan Bank
  System on--
  (A) the availability and affordability of housing for low- and
  moderate-income households; and
  (B) the relative availability of housing credit across geographic areas,
  with particular regard to differences depending on whether properties are
  inside or outside of central cities.
  (13) The appropriateness of extending to the Federal Home Loan Bank System
  the public purposes and housing goals established for the Federal National
  Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation under
  this Act and the enterprises' charters.
  (b) REPORTS- Not later than 9 months after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, the Federal Housing Finance Board, the Comptroller General, the
  Director of the Congressional Budget Office, and the Secretary of Housing
  and Urban Development shall each submit to the Congress a report on the
  studies required under subsection (a) containing any recommendations for
  legislative action based on the results of the studies.
  (c) COMMENTS- The Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Office
  of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation, and the Federal National Mortgage Association shall submit
  to the Congress any recommendations and opinions regarding the studies
  under subsection (a), to the extent that the recommendations and views of
  such officers differ from the recommendations and opinions of the Federal
  Housing Finance Board, the Comptroller General, the Director of Congressional
  Budget Office, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
  (d) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section the term `housing-related
  assets' means residential mortgages, residential mortgage-related securities,
  loans or loan participations secured by residential real estate, housing
  production loans, and warehouse lines of credit for residential mortgage
  banking activities.
SEC. 703. REPORTS OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS.
  Not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
  Board of Directors of each Federal Home Loan Bank shall submit to the
  Congress a report of the directors' evaluation of the costs and benefits
  of consolidation of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
SEC. 704. REPORTS OF FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Board of Directors of each Federal Home Loan Bank shall elect
  2 persons who are officers or directors of stockholder institutions of
  the Federal Home Loan Bank to serve on a panel to be called the `Study
  Committee'.
  (b) STUDY AND REPORT- The Study Committee referred to in subsection (a) shall
  conduct a study on the topics listed in section 702(a) and on the costs
  and benefits of consolidation of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. Not
  later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Study
  Committee shall submit a report to the Congress, the Federal Housing Finance
  Board, and the presidents of the Federal Home Loan Banks on its findings,
  including any recommendations for legislative or administrative action,
  together with any minority views or recommendations.
SEC. 705. FULL-TIME STATUS OF FHFB MEMBERS.
  Section 2A(b)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C.  1422(b)(2))
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(D) BOARD STATUS- All directors appointed pursuant to paragraph (1)(B)
  shall serve on a full-time basis beginning on January 1, 1994.'.
TITLE VIII--STUDY OF NATIONAL CONSUMER COOPERATIVE BANK
SEC. 801. STUDY OF NATIONAL CONSUMER COOPERATIVE BANK.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct
  a study of--
  (1) the extent to which the National Consumer Cooperative Bank has achieved
  its statutory purposes as set forth in the National Consumer Cooperative
  Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) (hereafter in this title referred to as
  the `Bank Act'); and
  (2) the financial safety and soundness of the activities of the Bank and
  its affiliates.
  (b) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS- In conducting the study, the Comptroller General
  shall examine and evaluate--
  (1) the degrees and types of risks that are undertaken by the Bank in
  the course of its and its affiliates' operations, including credit risk,
  interest rate risk, management and operational risk, and business risk;
  (2) the actual level of risk that exists with respect to the Bank and
  its affiliates, which shall take account of the volume of debt securities
  issued by the Bank to the Secretary of the Treasury;
  (3) the appropriateness of establishing a more comprehensive structure of
  safety and soundness regulation of the Bank and its affiliates, including
  the application of capital standards to the Bank;
  (4) the costs and benefits to the public from establishment of a more
  comprehensive structure of safety and soundness regulation of the Bank and
  its affiliates, and the impact of such a structure on the capability of the
  Bank to carry out its purposes under law and the Bank's viability, including
  the ability of the Bank to obtain funding in the private capital markets;
  (5) the quality and timeliness of information currently available to the
  public and the Federal Government concerning the extent and nature of
  the activities of the Bank and its affiliates and the financial risks
  associated with such activities;
  (6) the extent to which the Bank has served all types of its eligible
  borrowers, including consumer cooperatives, self-help cooperatives, and
  cooperatives serving low-income families;
  (7) the extent to which the Bank directly or indirectly has provided
  technical assistance to all types of its eligible borrowers;
  (8) whether the benefit to the Bank of below-market rates of interest on
  the debt issued by the Bank to the Secretary of the Treasury was utilized
  and allocated in a manner consistent with the Bank Act;
  (9) whether the Bank's compensation of its executive officers has been
  excessive;
  (10) whether the manner in which the Bank has allocated voting rights to
  its eligible borrowers has conformed with the Bank Act;
  (11) whether the Bank otherwise has acted in a manner consistent with the
  achievement of its purposes and mission under the Bank Act; and
  (12) whether the purposes and mission of the Bank under the Bank Act
  should be modified in light of any changes in the availability to the
  Bank's eligible borrowers of credit from sources other than the Bank,
  changes in the economy, and other factors.
  (c) PREPARATION OF REPORT- In conducting the study required by this section,
  among other matters, the Comptroller General shall take account of--
  (1) the examination reports on the Bank prepared by the Farm Credit
  Administration;
  (2) any audits of the Bank by the Comptroller General;
  (3) the annual reports of the Bank to the Congress and the annual and
  quarterly reports and registration statements filed by the Bank with the
  Securities and Exchange Commission;
  (4) any written communications of any kind of the Farm Credit Administration
  or the Comptroller General to the Congress with respect to the Bank or
  its affiliates;
  (5) the examination reports on the Bank or its affiliates prepared by the
  Office of Thrift Supervision or the appropriate official of the State of
  Ohio; and
  (6) the views of interested members of the public, including eligible
  borrowers from the Bank.
  (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within 6 months after enactment of this Act, the
  Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
  and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and
  Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that shall set forth--
  (1) the results of the study under this section;
  (2) any recommendations of the Comptroller General with respect to--
  (A) the establishment of a more comprehensive structure of safety and
  soundness regulation of the Bank and its affiliates;
  (B) the appropriate capital standards for the Bank; and
  (C) the appropriate regulatory agency for the Bank;
  (3) any recommendations of the Comptroller General with respect to--
  (A) the manner in which the Bank is carrying out its purposes and mission
  under the Bank Act;
  (B) whether the Bank's purposes and mission under the Bank Act should be
  changed; and
  (C) whether the Bank Act should be otherwise amended; and
  (4) any recommendations and opinions of the Secretary of the Treasury
  regarding the report and, to the extent that the recommendations and views
  of such officers or agencies differ from the recommendations and opinions of
  the Comptroller General, any recommendations and opinions of the Farm Credit
  Administration and the Office of Thrift Supervision regarding the report.
  (e) CONSULTATION AND COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES- The Comptroller
  General shall determine the structure and methodology of the study under
  this section in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Farm
  Credit Administration, the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision,
  and the Bank.
  (f) ACCESS TO RELEVANT INFORMATION- The Bank shall provide or cause to be
  provided full and prompt access to the Comptroller General to the books and
  records of the Bank and any affiliate of the Bank and shall promptly provide
  or cause to be provided any other information requested by the Comptroller
  General. Any information provided by the Bank or any affiliate of the Bank
  to the Comptroller General that concerns customer relationships and that is
  confidential in nature shall be retained in confidence by the Comptroller
  General and shall not be disclosed to the public. In conducting the study
  under this section, the Comptroller General may request information from,
  or the assistance of, any department or agency of the Federal Government
  or of the State of Ohio that is or was authorized by law to examine or
  supervise any activities of the Bank or any affiliate of the Bank.
TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS
Subtitle A--Miscellaneous
SEC. 901. PRIVATIZATION STUDY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General of the United States, the Director
  of the Congressional Budget Office, and the Secretary of the Treasury
  shall conduct a study of the desirability and feasibility of eliminating
  the Federal sponsorship of the Federal National Mortgage Association and
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
  (b) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS- In conducting  the study, the Comptroller
  General of the United States, the Director of the Congressional Budget
  Office, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider and evaluate--
  (1) the legal requirements of the Federal National Mortgage Association and
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the costs to the enterprises
  if such Federal sponsorship were removed;
  (2) the cost of capital to the Federal National Mortgage Association and
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation with the removal of Federal
  sponsorship;
  (3) the costs to home ownership and the impact on housing affordability
  and availability of the removal of Federal sponsorship;
  (4) the level of competition which might be available in the private sector
  with the removal of Federal sponsorship;
  (5) the potential effect on the cost and availability of residential housing
  finance of the enactment of bank reforms that would enable banks to enter
  the securities business;
  (6) whether increased amounts of core capital would be necessary with the
  removal of Federal sponsorship;
  (7) the impact of removal of Federal sponsorship upon the secondary market
  for residential loans and the liquidity of such loans;
  (8) the impact of removal of Federal sponsorship upon the risk weighting
  of assets of insured depository institutions; and
  (9) any other factor which the Comptroller General of the United States,
  the Director of the Congressional Budget Office, or the Secretary of
  the Treasury deems appropriate to enable the Congress to evaluate the
  desirability and feasibility of privatization of the Federal National
  Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
  (c) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within 2 years after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States, the Director of
  the Congressional Budget Office, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall
  submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
  Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the
  House of Representatives a report that shall set forth--
  (1) a summary of the findings under this section;
  (2) recommendations to the Congress on the removal of Federal sponsorship,
  if deemed to be feasible and desirable, which shall include suggestions
  for an appropriate time frame in which to withdraw Federal sponsorship.
  (d) VIEWS OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION AND THE FEDERAL
  HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION-
  (1) CONSIDERATION OF VIEWS- In conducting the study under this section, the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the Director of the Congressional
  Budget Office, and the Secretary of the Treasury shall consider the views
  of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation.
  (2) The Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation may report directly to the Congress on the enterprises'
  own analysis of the desirability and feasibility of the removal of Federal
  sponsorship.
SEC. 902. HOUSING ASSISTANCE IN JEFFERSON COUNTY, TEXAS.
  Section 213(e) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42
  U.S.C. 1439(e)) is amended by striking `the Park Central New Community
  Project or in adjacent areas that are recognized by the unit of general local
  government in which such project is located as being included within the Park
  Central New Town in Town Project.' and inserting `Jefferson County, Texas.'.
SEC. 903. APPLICABILITY OF SHELTER PLUS CARE.
  Section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b), by striking `private,'; and
  (2) in paragraphs (5) and (6) of subsection (k), by striking `private'
  each place it appears.
SEC. 904. ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGE CAPS.
  Section 1204(d)(2) of the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 (12
  U.S.C. 3806(d)(2)) is amended by striking `any loan' and inserting `any
  home purchase or other consumer loan'.
SEC. 905. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF BANKS.
  (a) NATIONAL BANKS- Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `ELEVENTH- To make investments designed primarily to promote the public
  welfare, including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or
  families (such as by providing housing, services, or jobs). A national
  banking association may make such investments directly or by purchasing
  interests in an entity primarily engaged in making such investments. The
  Comptroller of the Currency shall limit an association's investments
  in any 1 project and an association's aggregate investments under this
  paragraph. In no case shall an association's aggregate investments under
  this paragraph exceed an amount equal to the sum of 10 percent of the
  association's capital stock actually paid in and unimpaired and 10 percent
  of the association's unimpaired surplus fund.'.
  (b) STATE MEMBER BANKS- Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
  U.S.C. 321-338) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `State member banks may make investments designed primarily to promote
  the public welfare, including the welfare of low- and moderate-income
  communities or families (such as by providing housing, services, or jobs),
  to the extent permissible under State law, and subject to such restrictions
  and requirements as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
  may prescribe by regulation or order. The Board of Governors shall limit
  a bank's investments in any 1 project and a bank's aggregate investments
  under this paragraph. In no case shall a bank's aggregate investments
  under this paragraph exceed an amount equal to the sum of 10 percent of
  the bank's capital stock actually paid in and unimpaired and 10 percent
  of the bank's unimpaired surplus fund.'.
Subtitle B--Presidential Insurance Commission
SEC. 911. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `Presidential Insurance Commission Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 912. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the property and casualty insurance, life insurance, health insurance,
  and reinsurance industries play a major and vital role in the capital
  formation and lending in the United States economy;
  (2) at the end of 1989, life and health and property and casualty insurers
  combined controlled just under $1,800,000,000,000 in assets invested in
  the United States;
  (3) these insurer assets represented slightly less than 18 percent of the
  financial assets of all non-governmental financial intermediaries in the
  United States;
  (4) of total United States assets, insurers controlled--
  (A) 50.7 percent of all United States held corporate and foreign bonds;
  (B) 32.1 percent of all tax-exempt bonds;
  (C) 13.8 percent of United States Treasury securities;
  (D) 18.2 percent of Federal agency securities;
  (E) 12.2 percent of mortgages;
  (F) 14.7 percent of corporate equities;
  (G) 10.3 percent of open market paper; and
  (H) 12 percent of all other United States assets; and
  (5) a Presidential commission should be established--
  (A) to assess the condition of the insurance industry;
  (B) to make recommendations to improve the financial health and
  competitiveness of the insurance industry; and
  (C) to assure the availability of insurance to consumers at competitive
  prices.
SEC. 913. ESTABLISHMENT.
  There is established a Presidential Commission on Insurance (hereafter in
  this subtitle referred to as the `Commission').
SEC. 914. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
  The Commission shall--
  (1) assess the condition of the property and casualty insurance, life
  insurance, health insurance, and reinsurance industries, including
  consideration of--
  (A) the present and projected long-term financial health of such industries;
  (B) the adequacy of assured payout to policyholders, including an assessment
  of the sufficiency of existing State guaranty funds, the likely effect of
  proposed changes in these funds by the National Association of Insurance
  Commissioners, and the need and shape of any Federal role in assuring
  insurer solvency;
  (C) the appropriateness of the extent of solvency protection provided to
  individual policyholders and corporate policyholders;
  (D) the impact of changes in the State and Federal liability systems,
  particularly with respect to long-term liability, on insurance industry
  solvency;
  (E) the effect of the McCarran-Ferguson Act and State regulation on consumer
  protection and competition, including pricing, product development, and
  solvency, in these industries;
  (F) the appropriateness of the present allocation of Federal and State
  responsibilities in regulating insurance and the underlying liability
  systems; and
  (G) whether there are some forms of catastrophic risks, such as earthquakes,
  that deserve special insurance treatment; and
  (2) recommend, on the basis of the Commission's findings under paragraph
  (1), any necessary legislative and regulatory changes that will improve the
  domestic and international financial health and competitiveness of such
  industries, and thereby assure consumers of the availability of adequate
  insurance coverage when an insured event occurs, and of the best possible
  range of products at competitive prices.
SEC. 915. MEMBERSHIP AND COMPENSATION.
  (a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT- The Commission shall be composed of 15 members,
  including--
  (1) the Secretary of the Treasury;
  (2) the Attorney General of the United States;
  (3) the Secretary of Transportation;
  (4) the Secretary of Commerce;
  (5) the Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission; and
  (6) 10 members from the private sector having expertise in insurance,
  financial services, antitrust, liability law, and consumer issues, at
  least 1 of whom has expertise in State regulation of insurance, at least
  2 of whom have expertise in the business of insurance, and at least 2 of
  whom have expertise in consumer issues, to be appointed by the President.
  (b) DESIGNEES- An appropriate designee of any member described in paragraphs
  (1) through (5) of subsection (a) may serve on the Commission in the place
  of such member and under the same terms and conditions as such member.
  (c) CONSULTATIONS BY THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY- The Secretary of the
  Treasury shall consult with--
  (1) the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
  (2) the Chairperson of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and
  (3) the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
with respect to all financial and other matters within their respective
jurisdictions that are under consideration by the Commission.
  (d) ELIGIBILITY- No member or officer of the Congress or other officer
  or employee of the Executive Branch of the United States Government may
  be appointed to be a member of the Commission pursuant to paragraph (6)
  of subsection (a).
  (e) TERMS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Each member shall be appointed for the life of the
  Commission.
  (2) VACANCY- A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner
  in which the original appointment was made.
  (f) COMPENSATION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Members of the Commission appointed pursuant to subsection
  (a)(6) shall be compensated at a rate equal to the annual rate of basic
  pay for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
  (2) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member shall receive travel expenses, including
  per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703
  of title 5, United States Code.
  (g) QUORUM-
  (1) MAJORITY- A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute
  a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.
  (2) APPROVAL OF ACTIONS- All recommendations and reports of the Commission
  required by this subtitle shall be approved only by a majority vote of a
  quorum of the Commission.
  (h) CHAIRPERSON- The President shall select 1 member appointed pursuant
  to subsection (a)(6) to serve as the Chairperson of the Commission.
  (i) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or
  a majority of the members.
SEC. 916. POWERS OF COMMISSION.
  (a) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS- The Commission may--
  (1) hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and
  receive evidence as the Commission considers appropriate; and
  (2) administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing before the
  Commission,
for the purpose of carrying out this subtitle.
  (b) POWERS OF MEMBERS AND AGENTS- Any member or agent of the Commission may,
  if authorized by the Commission, take any action which the Commission is
  authorized to take by this subtitle.
  (c) SUBPOENA POWER-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance
  and testimony of witnesses and the production of any evidence relating to
  any matter under investigation by the Commission.
  (2) ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECTS OF SUBPOENA-
  (A) ATTENDANCE OR PRODUCTION AT DESIGNATED SITE- The attendance of witnesses
  and the production of evidence may be required from any place within the
  United States at any designated place of hearing within the United States.
  (B) FEES AND TRAVEL EXPENSES- Persons served with a subpoena under this
  subsection shall be paid the same fees and mileage for travel within the
  United States that are paid witnesses in Federal courts.
  (C) NO LIABILITY FOR OTHER EXPENSES- The Commission and the United States
  shall not be liable for any expense, other than an expense described
  in subparagraph (B), incurred in connection with the production of any
  evidence under this subsection.
  (3) CONFIDENTIALITY- Information obtained under this section which is
  deemed confidential, or with reference to which a request for confidential
  treatment is made by the person furnishing such information, shall be
  exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States Code,
  and such information shall not be published or disclosed unless the
  Commission determines that the withholding thereof is contrary to the
  national interest. The provisions of the preceding sentence shall not apply
  to the publication or disclosure of data that are aggregated in a manner
  that ensures protection of the identity of the person furnishing such data.
  (4) FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA-
  (A) APPLICATION TO COURT- If a person refuses to obey a subpoena issued
  under paragraph (1), the Commission may apply to a district court of the
  United States for an order requiring that person to appear before the
  Commission to give testimony or produce evidence, as the case may be,
  relating to the matter under investigation.
  (B) JURISDICTION OF COURT- The application may be made within the judicial
  district where the hearing is conducted or where that person is found,
  resides, or transacts business.
  (C) FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER- Any failure to obey the order of the
  court may be punished by the court as civil contempt.
  (5) SERVICE OF SUBPOENAS- The subpoenas of the Commission shall be served
  in the manner provided for subpoenas issued by a United States district
  court under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for the United States
  district courts.
  (6) SERVICE OF PROCESS- All process of any court to which application is
  to be made under paragraph (3) may be served in the judicial district in
  which the person required to be served resides or may be found.
  (d) Obtaining Official Data-
  (1) AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding any provision of section 552a of title 5,
  United States Code, the Commission may secure directly from any department
  or agency of the United States information necessary to enable the Commission
  to carry out this subtitle.
  (2) PROCEDURE- Upon request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the head
  of that department or agency shall furnish the information requested to
  the Commission.
  (e) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
  manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of
  the United States.
  (f) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES- Upon the request of the Commission,
  the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission,
  on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services necessary
  for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities under this subtitle.
SEC. 917. STAFF OF COMMISSION; EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS.
  (a) STAFF- Subject to such regulations as the Commission may prescribe,
  the Chairperson may appoint and fix the pay of such personnel as the
  Chairperson considers appropriate.
  (b) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERVICE LAWS- The staff of the Commission
  may be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States
  Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be paid
  without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter
  53 of that title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates,
  except that an individual so appointed may not receive pay in excess of
  the annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
  (c) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- Subject to rules prescribed by the Commission,
  the Chairperson may procure temporary and intermittent services under section
  3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for individuals not
  to exceed the annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General
  Schedule.
  (d) STAFF OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- Upon request of the Chairperson, the head
  of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis,
  any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Commission to
  assist it in carrying out its duties under this subtitle.
SEC. 918. REPORT.
  Not later than May 1, 1993, the Commission shall submit to the President
  and the Congress a final report containing a detailed statement of its
  findings, together with any recommendations for legislation or administrative
  action that the Commission considers appropriate, in accordance with the
  requirements of section 914.
SEC. 919. TERMINATION.
  The Commission shall terminate not later than 60 days following submission
  of the report required by section 918.
SEC. 920. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 to carry out the purposes
  of this subtitle.
Subtitle C--Secondary Market for Commercial Mortgage Loans
SEC. 921. SHORT TITLE.
  This subtitle may be cited as the `Secondary Market for Commercial Real
  Estate Mortgage Loans Act of 1992'.
SEC. 922. PURPOSE.
  The purpose of this subtitle is to enable the Congress to gain an
  understanding of legal, regulatory, and market-based impediments to
  developing a secondary market for commercial real estate mortgage loans.
SEC. 923. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the secondary market for residential real estate mortgage loans has
  created liquidity and diversified risk in the home mortgage lending market,
  has maintained an adequate flow of mortgage credit to homebuyers, and has
  stabilized mortgage loan prices across the country;
  (2) an active and liquid secondary market for commercial real estate
  mortgage loans has not developed despite the apparent benefits for lenders
  and homeowners in the residential market and the potential benefits to
  lenders and borrowers on the commercial market;
  (3) a major impediment to the creation of a secondary market for commercial
  real estate mortgages is the lack of standardization in such mortgages,
  including loan documents, underwriting, loan terms, credit enhancement,
  security product design and packaging, and ratings; and
  (4) standardization of commercial real estate mortgage loans and the
  elimination of legal and regulatory barriers would enhance the development
  of a broader, more liquid secondary market for commercial real estate
  mortgage loans through private sector initiatives and resources.
SEC. 924. STUDY BY THE TREASURY, CBO, AND SEC.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the
  Congressional Budget Office, and the Chairman of the Securities and
  Exchange Commission shall conduct a study of the potential benefits of,
  and legal, regulatory, and market-based barriers to, developing a secondary
  market for commercial real estate mortgage loans. The study shall include
  consideration of--
  (1) market perceptions and the reasons for the slow development of a
  secondary market for commercial real estate mortgage loans;
  (2) the acquisition, development, and construction phases of the commercial
  real estate market;
  (3) any means to standardize loan documents and underwriting for loans
  relating to retail, office space, and other segments of the commercial
  real estate market;
  (4) the probable effects of the development of a secondary market for
  commercial real estate mortgage loans on financial institutions and
  intermediaries, borrowers, lenders, real estate markets, and the credit
  markets generally;
  (5) legal and regulatory barriers that may be impeding the development of
  a secondary market for commercial real estate mortgage loans; and
  (6) the risks posed by investments in commercial mortgage loans or related
  products.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Congressional
  Budget Office, and the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission
  shall transmit to the Congress a report on the results of the study under
  subsection (a). The report  shall include recommendations for legislation
  to facilitate the development of a secondary market for commercial real
  estate mortgage loans.
SEC. 925. REPORT AND STUDY BY THE RTC.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The chief executive officer of the Resolution Trust
  Corporation (hereafter in this subtitle referred to as the `RTC') shall
  conduct a study that focuses on--
  (1) efforts by the RTC to standardize its disposition methods;
  (2) the success of the RTC in marketing its commercial mortgage loan-backed
  securities; and
  (3) the impact of the RTC's programs on the commercial real estate mortgage
  loan secondary market.
  (b) REPORT- Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the chief
  executive officer of the RTC shall transmit a report to the Congress on
  the impact of its commercial real estate loan securitization program. Such
  report shall also contain the results of the study under subsection (a).
S 2733 PCS----2
S 2733 PCS----3
S 2733 PCS----4
S 2733 PCS----5
S 2733 PCS----6
S 2733 PCS----7
S 2733 PCS----8
S 2733 PCS----9
S 2733 PCS----10
S 2733 PCS----11
S 2733 PCS----12