[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 214 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.214

                       One Hundred Tenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
            the fourth day of January, two thousand and seven


                                 An Act


 
  To amend chapter 35 of title 28, United States Code, to preserve the 
                independence of United States attorneys.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preserving United States Attorney 
Independence Act of 2007''.

SEC. 2. VACANCIES.

     Section 546 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) A person appointed as United States attorney under this 
section may serve until the earlier of--
        ``(1) the qualification of a United States attorney for such 
    district appointed by the President under section 541 of this 
    title; or
        ``(2) the expiration of 120 days after appointment by the 
    Attorney General under this section.
    ``(d) If an appointment expires under subsection (c)(2), the 
district court for such district may appoint a United States attorney 
to serve until the vacancy is filled. The order of appointment by the 
court shall be filed with the clerk of the court.''.

SEC. 3. APPLICABILITY.

    (a) In General.--The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Application.--
        (1) In general.--Any person serving as a United States attorney 
    on the day before the date of enactment of this Act who was 
    appointed under section 546 of title 28, United States Code, may 
    serve until the earlier of--
            (A) the qualification of a United States attorney for such 
        district appointed by the President under section 541 of that 
        title; or
            (B) 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Expired appointments.--If an appointment expires under 
    paragraph (1), the district court for that district may appoint a 
    United States attorney for that district under section 546(d) of 
    title 28, United States Code, as added by this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.