Calendar No. 231
117th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 3436

To require the imposition of sanctions with respect to entities responsible for the planning, construction, or operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and their corporate officers and to apply congressional review under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act to the removal of sanctions relating to Nord Stream 2, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
December 18 (legislative day, December 17), 2021
Mr. Cruz (for himself and Mr. Risch) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and ordered placed on the calendar
A BILL
To require the imposition of sanctions with respect to entities responsible for the planning, construction, or operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and their corporate officers and to apply congressional review under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act to the removal of sanctions relating to Nord Stream 2, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the “Protecting Europe's Energy Security Implementation Act ”.
SEC. 2. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO NORD STREAM 2.
(a) In General.—Not later than 15 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall—
(1) impose sanctions under subsection (b) with respect to any corporate officer of an entity established for or responsible for the planning, construction, or operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline or a successor entity; and
(2) impose sanctions under subsection (c) with respect to any entity described in paragraph (1).
(b) Ineligibility For Visas, Admission, Or Parole Of Identified Persons And Corporate Officers.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) VISAS, ADMISSION, OR PAROLE.—An alien described in subsection (a)(1) is—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The visa or other entry documentation of an alien described in subsection (a)(1) shall be revoked, regardless of when such visa or other entry documentation is or was issued.
(ii) IMMEDIATE EFFECT.—A revocation under clause (i) shall—
(I) take effect immediately; and
(II) automatically cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in the alien's possession.
(c) Blocking Of Property Of Identified Persons.—The President shall exercise all powers granted to the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in property of an entity described in subsection (a)(1) if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person.
(d) Conditions For Removal Of Sanctions.—Subject to review by Congress under section 216 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511), the President may waive the application of sanctions under this section if the President—
(1) determines that the waiver is in the national security interest of the United States; and
(2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the waiver and the reason for the waiver.
(e) Implementation; Penalties.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may exercise all authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this section.
(2) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of this section or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out this section shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
(f) Exceptions.—
(1) EXCEPTION FOR INTELLIGENCE, LAW ENFORCEMENT, AND NATIONAL SECURITY ACTIVITIES.—Sanctions under this section shall not apply to any authorized intelligence, law enforcement, or national security activities of the United States.
(2) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NATIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT.—Sanctions under this section shall not apply with respect to the admission of an alien to the United States if the admission of the alien is necessary to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, the Convention on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force March 19, 1967, or other applicable international obligations.
(3) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the authorities and requirements to impose sanctions under this section shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
(B) GOOD DEFINED.—In this paragraph, the term “good” means any article, natural or man-made substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.
(g) Sunset.—The authority to impose sanctions under this section shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(h) Definitions.—In this section:
(1) ADMISSION; ADMITTED; ALIEN.—The terms “admission” , “admitted” , and “alien” have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.—The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives.
(3) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term “United States person” means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States;
(B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; or
(C) any person within the United States.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF WAIVER UNDER PROTECTING EUROPE’S ENERGY SECURITY ACT OF 2019.
Section 7503(f) of the Protecting Europe’s Energy Security Act of 2019 (title LXXV of Public Law 116–92; 22 U.S.C. 9526 note) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “The President” and inserting “Subject to review by Congress under section 216 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511), the President”.
SEC. 4. APPLICATION OF CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW UNDER COUNTERING AMERICA’S ADVERSARIES THROUGH SANCTIONS ACT.
Section 216(a)(2) of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511(a)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in clause (i), by inserting “(other than sanctions described in clause (i)(IV) of that subparagraph)” after “subparagraph (B)”; and
(B) in clause (ii), by inserting “or otherwise remove” after “waive”; and
(2) in subparagraph (B)(i)—
(A) in subclause (II), by striking “; or” and inserting a semicolon;
(B) in subclause (III), by striking “; and” and inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
“(IV) section 7503 of the Protecting Europe’s Energy Security Act of 2019 (title LXXV of Public Law 116–92; 22 U.S.C. 9526 note); or
“(V) section 2 of the Protecting Europe's Energy Security Implementation Act; and”.
SEC. 5. INCLUSION OF MATTER RELATING TO NORD STREAM 2 IN REPORT UNDER COUNTERING AMERICA’S ADVERSARIES THROUGH SANCTIONS ACT.
Each report submitted under section 216(a)(1) of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (22 U.S.C. 9511(a)(1)) relating to sanctions under section 2 of this Act or section 7503 of the Protecting Europe’s Energy Security Act of 2019 (title LXXV of Public Law 116–92; 22 U.S.C. 9526 note) shall include—
(1) an assessment of the security risks posed by Nord Stream 2, including—
(A) the presence along Nord Stream 2 or Nord Stream 1 infrastructure or pipeline corridors of undersea surveillance systems and sensors, fiber optic terminals, or other systems that are capable of conducting military or intelligence activities unrelated to civilian energy transmission, including those designed to enhance Russian Federation anti-submarine warfare, surveillance, espionage, or sabotage capabilities;
(B) the use of Nord Stream-affiliated infrastructure, equipment, personnel, vessels, financing, or other assets—
(i) to facilitate, carry out, or conceal Russian Federation maritime surveillance, espionage, or sabotage activities;
(ii) to justify the presence of Russian Federation naval vessels or military personnel or equipment in international waters or near North Atlantic Treaty Organization or partner countries;
(iii) to disrupt freedom of navigation; or
(iv) to pressure or intimidate countries in the Baltic Sea;
(C) the involvement in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline or its affiliated entities of current or former Russian, Soviet, or Warsaw Pact intelligence and military personnel and any business dealings between Nord Stream 2 and entities affiliated with the intelligence or defense sector of the Russian Federation; and
(D) malign influence activities of the Government of the Russian Federation, including strategic corruption and efforts to influence European decision-makers, supported or financed through the Nord Stream 2 pipeline;
(2) an assessment of whether the Russian Federation maintains gas transit through Ukraine at levels consistent with the volumes set forth in the Ukraine-Russian Federation gas transit agreement of December 2019 and continues to pay the transit fees specified in that agreement;
(3) an assessment of the status of negotiations between the Russian Federation and Ukraine to secure an agreement to extend gas transit through Ukraine beyond the expiration of the agreement described in paragraph (2); and
(4) an assessment of whether the United States and Germany have agreed on a common definition for energy “weaponization” and the associated triggers for sanctions and other enforcement actions, pursuant to the Joint Statement of the United States and Germany on support for Ukraine, European energy security, and our climate goals, dated July 21, 2021; and
(5) a description of the consultations with United States allies and partners in Europe, including Ukraine, Poland, and the countries in Central and Eastern Europe most impacted by the Nord Stream 2 pipeline concerning the matters agreed to as described in paragraph (4).
Calendar No. 231
117th CONGRESS
     1st Session
S. 3436
A BILL
To require the imposition of sanctions with respect to entities responsible for the planning, construction, or operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and their corporate officers and to apply congressional review under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act to the removal of sanctions relating to Nord Stream 2, and for other purposes.
December 18 (legislative day, December 17), 2021
Read twice and ordered placed on the calendar