Shown Here:
Placed on Calendar Senate (06/04/2010)

[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3454 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 414
111th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3454

                          [Report No. 111-201]

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2011 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 4, 2010

    Mr. Levin, from the Committee on Armed Services reported, under 
 authority of the order of the Senate of May 28 (legislative day, May 
26), 2010, the following original bill; which was read twice and placed 
                            on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2011 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011''.

SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions as 
follows:
            (1) Division A-Department of Defense Authorizations.
            (2) Division B-Military Construction Authorizations.
            (3) Division C-Department of Energy National Security 
        Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
            (4) Division D-Funding Tables.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Airborne Common Sensor and Enhanced Medium Altitude 
                            Reconnaissance and Surveillance System.
                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Multiyear funding for detail design and construction of LHA 
                            Replacement ship designated LHA-7.
Sec. 122. Requirement to maintain Navy airborne signals intelligence 
                            capabilities.
Sec. 123. Reports on service life extension of F/A-18 aircraft by the 
                            Department of the Navy.
Sec. 124. Inclusion of basic and functional design in assessments 
                            required prior to start of construction of 
                            first ship of a shipbuilding program.
Sec. 125. Multiyear procurement authority for F/A-18E, F/A-18F, and EA-
                            18G fighter aircraft.
               Subtitle D--Joint and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. System management plan and matrix for the F-35 Joint Strike 
                            Fighter aircraft program.
Sec. 142. Contracts for commercial imaging satellite capacities.
Sec. 143. Quarterly reports on use of Combat Mission Requirements 
                            funds.
Sec. 144. Integration of solid state laser systems into certain 
                            aircraft.
         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Limitation on use of funds for alternative propulsion system 
                            for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.
Sec. 212. Limitation on use of funds by Defense Advanced Research 
                            Projects Agency for operation of National 
                            Cyber Range.
Sec. 213. Enhancement of Department of Defense support of science, 
                            mathematics, and engineering education.
Sec. 214. Program for research, development, and deployment of advanced 
                            ground vehicles, ground vehicle systems, 
                            and components.
Sec. 215. Demonstration and pilot projects on cybersecurity.
                  Subtitle C--Missile Defense Matters

Sec. 231. Sense of Congress on ballistic missile defense.
Sec. 232. Repeal of prohibition on certain contracts by the Missile 
                            Defense Agency with foreign entities.
Sec. 233. Medium Extended Air Defense System.
Sec. 234. Acquisition accountability reports on the ballistic missile 
                            defense system.
Sec. 235. Independent review and assessment of the Ground-Based 
                            Midcourse Defense system.
                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Operation and maintenance funding.
                  Subtitle B--Environmental Provisions

Sec. 311. Reimbursement of Environmental Protection Agency for certain 
                            costs in connection with the Twin Cities 
                            Army Ammunition Plant, Minnesota.
Sec. 312. Payment to Environmental Protection Agency of stipulated 
                            penalties in connection with Naval Air 
                            Station, Brunswick, Maine.
Sec. 313. Requirements relating to Agency for Toxic Substances and 
                            Disease Registry investigation of exposure 
                            to drinking water contamination at Camp 
                            Lejeune, North Carolina.
Sec. 314. Commission on Military Environmental Exposures.
                 Subtitle C--Workplace and Depot Issues

Sec. 321. Depot level maintenance and recapitalization parts supply.
                      Subtitle D--Energy Security

Sec. 331. Alternative aviation fuel initiative.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Additional limitation on indemnification of United States 
                            with respect to articles and services sold 
                            by working-capital funded army industrial 
                            facilities and arsenals outside the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 342. Extension of Arsenal Support Program Initiative.
Sec. 343. Four-year extension of authority to provide logistics support 
                            and services for weapons systems 
                            contractors.
Sec. 344. Recovery of improperly disposed of Department of Defense 
                            property.
Sec. 345. Commercial sale of small arms ammunition in excess of 
                            military requirements.
Sec. 346. Modification of authorities relating to prioritization of 
                            funds for equipment readiness and strategic 
                            capability.
Sec. 347. Repeal of requirement for reports on withdrawal or diversion 
                            of equipment from Reserve units for support 
                            of Reserve units being mobilized and other 
                            units.
Sec. 348. Revision to authorities relating to transportation of 
                            civilian passengers and commercial cargoes 
                            by Department of Defense when space 
                            unavailable on commercial lines.
              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
                            Reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2011 limitation on number of non-dual status 
                            technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
                            active duty for operational support.
              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
                Subtitle D--Armed Forces Retirement Home

Sec. 431. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Modification of promotion board procedures for joint 
                            qualified officers and officers with Joint 
                            Staff experience.
Sec. 502. Nondisclosure of information from discussions, deliberations, 
                            notes, and records of special selection 
                            boards.
Sec. 503. Administrative removal of officers from promotion list.
Sec. 504. Technical revisions to definition of ``joint matters'' for 
                            purposes of joint officer management.
Sec. 505. Modification of authority for officers selected for 
                            appointment to general and flag officer 
                            grades to wear insignia of higher grade 
                            before appointment.
Sec. 506. Temporary authority to reduce minimum length of commissioned 
                            service required for voluntary retirement 
                            as an officer.
Sec. 507. Age for appointment and mandatory retirement for health 
                            professions officers.
Sec. 508. Authority for permanent professors at the United States Air 
                            Force Academy to hold command positions.
Sec. 509. Authority for appointment of warrant officers in the grade of 
                            W-1 by commission and standardization of 
                            warrant officer appointing authority.
Sec. 510. Continuation of warrant officers on active duty to complete 
                            disciplinary action.
Sec. 511. Authority to credit military graduates of the National 
                            Defense Intelligence College with 
                            completion of Joint Professional Military 
                            Education Phase I.
Sec. 512. Expansion of authority relating to Phase II of three-phase 
                            approach to Joint Professional Military 
                            Education.
                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 521. Repeal of requirement for new oath when officer transfers 
                            from active-duty list to reserve active-
                            status list.
Sec. 522. Authority to designate certain Reserve officers as not to be 
                            considered for selection for promotion.
Sec. 523. Authority for assignment of Air Force Reserve military 
                            technicians (dual status) to positions 
                            outside Air Force Reserve unit program.
Sec. 524. Authority for temporary employment of non-dual status 
                            technicians to fill vacancies caused by 
                            mobilization of military technicians (dual 
                            status).
Sec. 525. Direct appointment of graduates of the United States Merchant 
                            Marine Academy into the National Guard.
                   Subtitle C--Education and Training

Sec. 531. Grade of commissioned officers in uniformed medical accession 
                            programs.
Sec. 532. Authority to waive maximum age limitation on admission to the 
                            service academies for certain enlisted 
                            members who served in Operation Iraqi 
                            Freedom or Operation Enduring Freedom.
Sec. 533. Active duty obligation for military academy graduates who 
                            participate in the Armed Forces Health 
                            Professions Scholarship and Financial 
                            Assistance program.
Sec. 534. Participation of Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship 
                            and Financial Assistance Program recipients 
                            in active duty health profession loan 
                            repayment program.
Sec. 535. Increase in number of private sector civilians authorized for 
                            admission to the National Defense 
                            University.
Sec. 536. Modification of Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
                            minimum unit strength.
Sec. 537. Increase in maximum age for prospective Reserve Officers' 
                            Training Corps financial assistance 
                            recipients.
Sec. 538. Modification of education loan repayment programs.
Sec. 539. Enhancements of Department of Defense undergraduate nurse 
                            training program.
Sec. 540. Authority for service commitment of reservists who accept 
                            fellowships, scholarships, or grants to be 
                            performed in the Selected Reserve.
Sec. 541. Health Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance 
                            Program for Civilians.
Sec. 542. Annual report on Department of Defense graduate medical 
                            education programs.
               Subtitle D--Defense Dependents' Education

Sec. 551. Continuation of authority to assist local educational 
                            agencies that benefit dependents of members 
                            of the Armed Forces and Department of 
                            Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 552. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 553. Authority to expand eligibility for enrollment in Department 
                            of Defense elementary and secondary schools 
                            to certain additional categories of 
                            dependents.
                 Subtitle E--Leave and Related Matters

Sec. 556. Leave of members of the reserve components of the Armed 
                            Forces.
Sec. 557. Non-chargeable rest and recuperation absence for certain 
                            members undergoing extended deployment to a 
                            combat zone.
                  Subtitle F--Military Justice Matters

Sec. 561. Reform of offenses relating to rape, sexual assault, and 
                            other sexual misconduct under the Uniform 
                            Code of Military Justice.
Sec. 562. Enhanced authority to punish contempt in military justice 
                            proceedings.
Sec. 563. Authority to compel production of documentary evidence prior 
                            to trial in military justice cases.
                   Subtitle G--Awards and Decorations

Sec. 566. Cold War Service Medal.
Sec. 567. Authority for award of Bronze Star medal to members of 
                            military forces of friendly foreign 
                            nations.
Sec. 568. Authorization and request for award of Distinguished-Service 
                            Cross to Shinyei Matayoshi for acts of 
                            valor during World War II.
Sec. 569. Authorization and request for award of Distinguished-Service 
                            Cross to Jay C. Copley for acts of valor 
                            during the Vietnam War.
                  Subtitle H--Wounded Warrior Matters

Sec. 571. Disposition of members found to be fit for duty who are not 
                            suitable for deployment or worldwide 
                            assignment for medical reasons.
Sec. 572. Authority to expedite background investigations for hiring of 
                            wounded warriors and spouses by the 
                            Department of Defense and defense 
                            contractors.
             Subtitle I--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 581. Additional members of Department of Defense Military Family 
                            Readiness Council.
Sec. 582. Enhancement of community support for military families with 
                            special needs.
Sec. 583. Pilot program on scholarships for military dependent children 
                            with special education needs.
Sec. 584. Reports on child development centers and financial assistance 
                            for child care for members of the Armed 
                            Forces.
                       Subtitle J--Other Matters

Sec. 591. Department of Defense policy concerning homosexuality in the 
                            Armed Forces.
Sec. 592. Recruitment and enlistment of charter school graduates in the 
                            Armed Forces.
Sec. 593. Updated terminology for the Army Medical Service Corps.
          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Extension of authority for increase in basic allowance for 
                            housing for areas subject to major disaster 
                            or installations experiencing sudden 
                            increase in personnel.
Sec. 602. Repeal of mandatory high-deployment allowance.
Sec. 603. Ineligibility of certain Federal Government employees for 
                            income replacement payments.
Sec. 604. Report on costs incurred by members undergoing permanent 
                            change of duty station in excess of 
                            allowances.
Sec. 605. Report on basic allowance for housing for personnel assigned 
                            to sea duty.
           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
                            authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
                            authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
                            nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
                            consolidated special pay, incentive pay, 
                            and bonus authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of 
                            other title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of 
                            referral bonuses.
            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

Sec. 621. Travel and transportation allowances for attendance of 
                            members and certain other persons at Yellow 
                            Ribbon Reintegration Program events.
Sec. 622. Authority for payment of full replacement value for loss or 
                            damage to household goods in certain cases 
                            not covered by carrier liability.
       Subtitle D--Disability, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 631. Repeal of automatic enrollment in Family Servicemembers' 
                            Group Life Insurance for members of the 
                            Armed Forces married to other members.
Sec. 632. Conformity of special compensation for members with injuries 
                            or illnesses requiring assistance in 
                            everyday living with monthly personal 
                            caregiver stipend under Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs program of comprehensive 
                            assistance for family caregivers.
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--TRICARE Program

Sec. 701. One-year extension of ceiling on charges for inpatient care 
                            under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 702. Extension of dependent coverage under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 703. Recognition of licensed mental health counselors as 
                            authorized providers under the TRICARE 
                            program.
Sec. 704. Plan for enhancement of quality, efficiencies, and savings in 
                            the military health care system.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Postdeployment health reassessments for purposes of the 
                            medical tracking system for members of the 
                            Armed Forces deployed overseas.
Sec. 712. Comprehensive policy on consistent automated neurological 
                            cognitive assessments of members of the 
                            Armed Forces before and after deployment.
Sec. 713. Restoration of previous policy regarding restrictions on use 
                            of Department of Defense medical 
                            facilities.
Sec. 714. Travel for anesthesia services for childbirth for command-
                            sponsored dependents of members assigned to 
                            remote locations outside the continental 
                            United States.
Sec. 715. Clarification of authority for transfer of medical records 
                            from the Department of Defense to the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 716. Clarification of licensure requirements applicable to 
                            military health-care professionals who are 
                            members of the National Guard performing 
                            certain duty while in State status.
Sec. 717. Education and training on use of pharmaceuticals in 
                            rehabilitation programs for wounded 
                            warriors.
                          Subtitle C--Reports

Sec. 731. Report on Department of Defense support of members of the 
                            Armed Forces who experience traumatic 
                            injury as a result of vaccinations required 
                            by the Department.
Sec. 732. Repeal of report requirement on separations resulting from 
                            refusal to participate in anthrax vaccine 
                            immunization program.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 801. Improvements to structure and functioning of Joint 
                            Requirements Oversight Council.
Sec. 802. Cost estimates for program baselines and contract 
                            negotiations for major defense acquisition 
                            and major automated information system 
                            programs.
Sec. 803. Management of manufacturing risk in major defense acquisition 
                            programs.
Sec. 804. Extension of reporting requirements for developmental test 
                            and evaluation and systems engineering in 
                            the military departments and Defense 
                            Agencies.
Sec. 805. Inclusion of major subprograms to major defense acquisition 
                            programs under various acquisition-related 
                            requirements.
Sec. 806. Technical and clarifying amendments to Weapon Systems 
                            Acquisition Reform Act of 2009.
             Subtitle B--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 811. New acquisition process for rapid fielding of capabilities in 
                            response to urgent operational needs.
Sec. 812. Acquisition of major automated information system programs.
Sec. 813. Permanent authority for Defense Acquisition Challenge 
                            Program.
Sec. 814. Exportability features for Department of Defense systems.
Sec. 815. Reduction of supply chain risk in the acquisition of national 
                            security systems.
Sec. 816. Department of Defense policy on acquisition and performance 
                            of sustainable products and services.
Sec. 817. Repeal of requirement for certain procurements from firms in 
                            the small arms production industrial base.
Sec. 818. Prohibition on Department of Defense procurements from 
                            entities engaging in commercial activity in 
                            the energy sector of the Islamic Republic 
                            of Iran.
  Subtitle C--Amendments Relating to General Contracting Authorities, 
                      Procedures, and Limitations

Sec. 831. Pilot program on acquisition of military purpose 
                            nondevelopmental items.
Sec. 832. Competition for production and sustainment and rights in 
                            technical data.
Sec. 833. Elimination of sunset date for protests of task and delivery 
                            order contracts.
Sec. 834. Inclusion of option amounts in limitations on authority of 
                            the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
                            Agency to carry out certain prototype 
                            projects.
Sec. 835. Enhancement of Department of Defense authority to respond to 
                            combat and safety emergencies through rapid 
                            acquisition and deployment of urgently 
                            needed supplies.
                     Subtitle D--Contractor Matters

Sec. 841. Contractor business systems.
Sec. 842. Oversight and accountability of contractors performing 
                            private security functions in areas of 
                            combat operations.
Sec. 843. Enhancements of authority of Secretary of Defense to reduce 
                            or deny award fees to companies found to 
                            jeopardize the health or safety of 
                            Government personnel.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 851. Extension of acquisition workforce personnel management 
                            demonstration program.
Sec. 852. Non-availability exception from Buy American requirements for 
                            procurement of hand or measuring tools.
Sec. 853. Five-year extension of Department of Defense Mentor-Protege 
                            Program.
Sec. 854. Extension and expansion of small business programs of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 855. Four-year extension of test program for negotiation of 
                            comprehensive small business subcontracting 
                            plans.
Sec. 856. Report on supply of fire resistant fiber for production of 
                            military uniforms.
Sec. 857. Contractor logistics support of contingency operations.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

              Subtitle A--Department of Defense Management

Sec. 901. Repeal of personnel limitations applicable to certain 
                            defense-wide organizations and revisions to 
                            limitation applicable to the Office of the 
                            Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 902. Reorganization of Office of the Secretary of Defense to carry 
                            out reduction required by law in number of 
                            Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.
Sec. 903. Revision of structure and functions of the Reserve Forces 
                            Policy Board.
                      Subtitle B--Space Activities

Sec. 911. Limitation on use of funds for costs of terminating contracts 
                            under the National Polar-Orbiting 
                            Operational Environmental Satellite System 
                            Program.
Sec. 912. Limitation on use of funds for purchasing Global Positioning 
                            System user equipment.
Sec. 913. Plan for integration of space-based nuclear detection 
                            sensors.
Sec. 914. Preservation of the solid rocket motor industrial base.
Sec. 915. Implementation plan to sustain solid rocket motor industrial 
                            base.
Sec. 916. Review and plan on sustainment of liquid rocket propulsion 
                            systems industrial base.
                    Subtitle C--Intelligence Matters

Sec. 921. Permanent authority for Secretary of Defense to engage in 
                            commercial activities as security for 
                            intelligence collection activities.
Sec. 922. Modification of attendees at proceedings of Intelligence, 
                            Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
                            Integration Council.
Sec. 923. Report on Department of Defense interservice management and 
                            coordination of remotely-piloted aircraft 
                            support of intelligence, surveillance, and 
                            reconnaissance.
Sec. 924. Report on requirements fulfillment and personnel management 
                            relating to Air Force intelligence, 
                            surveillance, and reconnaissance provided 
                            by remotely-piloted aircraft.
     Subtitle D--Cyber Warfare, Cyber Security, and Related Matters

Sec. 931. Continuous monitoring of Department of Defense information 
                            systems for cybersecurity.
Sec. 932. Strategy on computer software assurance.
Sec. 933. Strategy for acquisition and oversight of Department of 
                            Defense cyber warfare capabilities.
Sec. 934. Report on the cyber warfare policy of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 935. Reports on Department of Defense progress in defending the 
                            Department and the defense industrial base 
                            from cyber events.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 951. Report on organizational structure and policy guidance of the 
                            Department of Defense regarding information 
                            operations.
Sec. 952. Report on organizational structures of the geographic 
                            combatant command headquarters.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Repeal of requirement for annual joint report from Office of 
                            Management and Budget and Congressional 
                            Budget Office on scoring of outlays in 
                            defense budget function.
                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for 
                            certain Navy mess operations.
                    Subtitle C--Counterdrug Matters

Sec. 1021. Notice to Congress on military construction projects for 
                            facilities of foreign law enforcement 
                            agencies for counter-drug activities.
Sec. 1022. Extension and expansion of support for counter-drug 
                            activities of certain foreign governments.
Sec. 1023. Extension and modification of joint task forces support to 
                            law enforcement agencies conducting 
                            counter-terrorism activities.
Sec. 1024. Extension of numerical limitation on assignment of United 
                            States personnel in Colombia.
Sec. 1025. Reporting requirement on expenditures to support foreign 
                            counter-drug activities.
             Subtitle D--Homeland Defense and Civil Support

Sec. 1031. Limitation on deactivation of existing Consequence 
                            Management Response Forces.
Sec. 1032. Authority to make excess nonlethal supplies available for 
                            domestic emergency assistance.
Sec. 1033. Sale of surplus military equipment to State and local 
                            homeland security and emergency management 
                            agencies.
         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. National Guard support to secure the southern land border of 
                            the United States.
Sec. 1042. Prohibition on infringing on the individual right to 
                            lawfully acquire, possess, own, carry, and 
                            otherwise use privately owned firearms, 
                            ammunition, and other weapons.
Sec. 1043. Extension of limitation on use of funds for the transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1044. Limitation on transfer of detainees from United States Naval 
                            Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to certain 
                            countries.
Sec. 1045. Clarification of right to plead guilty in trial of capital 
                            offense by military commission.
Sec. 1046. Fiscal year 2011 administration and report on the Troops-to-
                            Teachers Program.
Sec. 1047. Military impacts of renewable energy development projects 
                            and other energy projects.
Sec. 1048. Public availability of Department of Defense reports 
                            required by law.
Sec. 1049. Development of criteria and methodology for determining the 
                            safety and security of nuclear weapons.
                          Subtitle F--Reports

Sec. 1061. Report on potential renewable energy projects on military 
                            installations.
Sec. 1062. Report on use of domestically-produced alternative fuels or 
                            technologies by vehicles of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 1063. Report on role and utility of non-lethal weapons and 
                            technologies in counterinsurgency 
                            operations.
Sec. 1064. Report on United States efforts to defend against threats 
                            posed by the anti-access and area-denial 
                            capabilities of certain nation-states.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical, conforming, and updating amendments.
                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Modification of certain authorities relating to personnel 
                            demonstration laboratories.
Sec. 1102. Requirements for Department of Defense senior mentors.
Sec. 1103. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
                            on premium pay and aggregate limitation on 
                            pay for Federal civilian employees working 
                            overseas.
Sec. 1104. Extension and modification of enhanced Department of Defense 
                            appointment and compensation authority for 
                            personnel for care and treatment of wounded 
                            and injured members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1105. Designation of Space and Missile Defense Technical Center of 
                            the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense 
                            Command/Army Forces Strategic Command as a 
                            Department of Defense science and 
                            technology reinvention laboratory.
Sec. 1106. Treatment for certain employees paid saved or retained 
                            rates.
Sec. 1107. Rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy employees 
                            performing work aboard or dockside in 
                            support of the nuclear aircraft carrier 
                            home-ported in Japan.
             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Training and Assistance

Sec. 1201. Addition of allied government agencies to enhanced logistics 
                            interoperability authority.
Sec. 1202. Expansion of temporary authority to use acquisition and 
                            cross-servicing agreements to lend certain 
                            military equipment to certain foreign 
                            forces for personnel protection and 
                            survivability.
Sec. 1203. Authority to build the capacity of Yemen Ministry of 
                            Interior Counter Terrorism Forces.
Sec. 1204. Authority to pay personnel expenses in connection with 
                            African cooperation.
    Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. One-year extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency 
                            Response Program and related authorities.
Sec. 1212. Increase in temporary limitation on amount for building 
                            capacity of foreign military forces to 
                            participate in or support military and 
                            stability operations.
Sec. 1213. Extension of authority for reimbursement of certain 
                            coalition nations for support provided to 
                            United States military operations.
Sec. 1214. Extension and modification of Pakistan Counterinsurgency 
                            Fund.
Sec. 1215. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
                            provide defense services to the military 
                            and security forces of Iraq and 
                            Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Sense of Congress and reports on training of Afghan National 
                            Police.
                          Subtitle C--Reports

Sec. 1231. One-year extension of report on progress toward security and 
                            stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1232. Two-year extension of United States plan for sustaining the 
                            Afghanistan National Security Forces.
Sec. 1233. Report on Department of Defense support for coalition 
                            operations.
Sec. 1234. Report on United States engagement with the Islamic Republic 
                            of Iran.
Sec. 1235. Defense Policy Board report on Department of Defense 
                            strategy to counter violent extremism 
                            outside the United States.
Sec. 1236. Report on Cuba.
Sec. 1237. Report on Venezuela.
Sec. 1238. Report on the disarmament of the Lord's Resistance Army.
                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of cooperative threat reduction programs and 
                            funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.
Sec. 1303. Limitation on use of funds for establishment of centers of 
                            excellence in countries outside of the 
                            former Soviet Union.
Sec. 1304. Plan for nonproliferation, proliferation prevention, and 
                            threat reduction activities with the 
                            People's Republic of China.
                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1403. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1404. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1405. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1406. Defense Inspector General.
             Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Matters

Sec. 1411. Consolidation and reorganization of statutory authority for 
                            destruction of United States stockpile of 
                            lethal chemical agents and munitions.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 1421. Authority for transfer of funds to Joint Department of 
                            Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for 
                            Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, 
                            Illinois.
               TITLE XV--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

Sec. 1500. Purpose.
         Subtitle A--Authorization of Additional Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Procurement.
Sec. 1502. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1503. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1504. Military personnel.
Sec. 1505. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1506. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Availability of amounts in Overseas Contingency Operations 
                            Transfer Fund solely for detainee 
                            operations at United States Naval Station, 
                            Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1532. Limitations on availability of funds in Afghanistan Security 
                            Forces Fund.
Sec. 1533. Iraq Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1534. Projects of Task Force for Business and Stability Operations 
                            in Afghanistan and report on economic 
                            strategy for Afghanistan.
Sec. 1535. Report on management controls and oversight mechanisms for 
                            the Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
                            Defeat Organization.
Sec. 1536. Sense of Congress on support for integrated civilian-
                            military training for civilian personnel 
                            deploying to Afghanistan.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
                            specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Funding tables.
                            TITLE XXI--ARMY

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2104. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2105. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2008 
                            projects.
Sec. 2106. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2009 project.
Sec. 2107. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2010 project.
                            TITLE XXII--NAVY

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2008 
                            project.
Sec. 2206. Technical amendment to carry out certain fiscal year 2010 
                            project.
                         TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2007 
                            project.
                      TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES

               Subtitle A--Defense Agency Authorizations

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2010 project.
          Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Authorizations

Sec. 2411. Authorization of appropriations, chemical demilitarization 
                            construction, defense-wide.
Sec. 2412. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2000 project.
   TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT 
                                PROGRAM

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
                            construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
Sec. 2607. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2008 
                            projects.
          TITLE XXVII--BASE CLOSURE AND REALIGNMENT ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base closure and 
                            realignment activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
                            1990.
Sec. 2702. Authorized base closure and realignment activities funded 
                            through Department of Defense Base Closure 
                            Account 2005.
Sec. 2703. Authorization of appropriations for base closure and 
                            realignment activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
                            2005.
          TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes

Sec. 2801. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
                            and maintenance funds for construction 
                            projects outside the United States.
        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Limitation on enhanced use leases of non-excess property.
                      Subtitle C--Energy Security

Sec. 2821. Enhancement of energy security activities of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 2822. Permanent authority to accept and use landing fees charged 
                            to use of domestic airfields by civil 
                            aircraft.
                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Land conveyance, Fort Knox, Kentucky.
Sec. 2832. Land conveyances, Naval Support Activity (West Bank), New 
                            Orleans, Louisiana.
Sec. 2833. Authority for use of unobligated funds for construction of a 
                            replacement fire station at Fort Belvoir, 
                            Virginia.
                          Subtitle E--Reports

Sec. 2841. Limitation on availability of funds pending reports 
                            regarding construction of a new outlying 
                            landing field (OLF) in North Carolina and 
                            Virginia.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 2851. Further enhancements to Department of Defense Homeowners 
                            Assistance Program.
Sec. 2852. Lease of Airborne and Special Operations Museum facility.
Sec. 2853. Sense of the Senate on the proposed extension of the Alaska 
                            Railroad corridor across Federal land in 
                            Alaska.
Sec. 2854. Sense of Congress on military housing for the Air Force.
   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Assessment of adequacy of budget requests with respect to 
                            maintaining the nuclear weapons stockpile.
Sec. 3112. Biennial plan on modernization and refurbishment of the 
                            nuclear security complex.
Sec. 3113. Future-years defense environmental management plan.
Sec. 3114. Notification of cost overruns for certain Department of 
                            Energy projects.
Sec. 3115. Authority to purchase or lease aircraft necessary to support 
                            the mission of the National Nuclear 
                            Security Administration.
Sec. 3116. Limitation on use of funds for establishment of centers of 
                            excellence in countries outside of the 
                            former Soviet Union.
Sec. 3117. Extension of authority of Secretary of Energy for 
                            appointment of certain scientific, 
                            engineering, and technical personnel.
Sec. 3118. Extension of authority of Secretary of Energy to enter into 
                            transactions to carry out certain research 
                            projects.
Sec. 3119. Extension of deadline for cooperation with the Russian 
                            Federation with respect to development of 
                            nuclear materials protection, control, and 
                            accounting program.
Sec. 3120. Repeal of sunset provision for modification of minor 
                            construction threshold for plant projects.
Sec. 3121. Extension of deadline for transfer of parcels of land to be 
                            conveyed to Los Alamos County, New Mexico, 
                            and held in trust for the Pueblo of San 
                            Ildefonso.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 3131. Department of Energy energy parks program.
Sec. 3132. Reclassification of certain appropriations for the National 
                            Nuclear Security Administration.
          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
                 TITLE XXXIII--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3301. Maritime Administration.
                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
                            contingency operations.
                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
                            operations.
                    TITLE XLIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4401. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4402. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
                    TITLE XLV--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4501. Military construction.
Sec. 4502. 2005 base realignment and closure round fiscal year 2011 
                            project listing.
Sec. 4503. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
      TITLE XLVI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4601. Department of Energy national security programs.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

    For purposes of this Act, the term ``congressional defense 
committees'' has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of 
title 10, United States Code.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

SEC. 111. AIRBORNE COMMON SENSOR AND ENHANCED MEDIUM ALTITUDE 
              RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.

    (a) Limitation on Availability of Funding Pending Certification.--
None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
by section 101 for procurement for the Army and made available by the 
funding table in section 4101 for aircraft procurement for the Army may 
be obligated or expended for a program specified in subsection (b) 
until the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics, and 
Technology) certifies to the congressional defense committees that such 
program--
            (1) has successfully completed its limited user test; and
            (2) demonstrates the technical performance necessary to 
        achieve milestone C approval.
    (b) Covered Programs.--The programs specified in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) The Airborne Common Sensor.
            (2) The Enhanced Medium Altitude Reconnaissance and 
        Surveillance System.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

SEC. 121. MULTIYEAR FUNDING FOR DETAIL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF LHA 
              REPLACEMENT SHIP DESIGNATED LHA-7.

    (a) Authority to Use Multiple Years of Funding.--The Secretary of 
the Navy may enter into a contract for detail design and construction 
of the LHA Replacement ship designated LHA-7 that provides that, 
subject to subsection (b), funds for payments under the contract may be 
provided from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, for fiscal years 2011 
and 2012.
    (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2011 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.

SEC. 122. REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN NAVY AIRBORNE SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE 
              CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Navy terminated the program, called the EP-X 
        program, to acquire a new land-based airborne signals 
        intelligence capability due to escalating costs and re-
        allocated funds budgeted for the program to other priorities.
            (2) The Navy took this action without planning and 
        budgeting for alternative means to meet operational 
        requirements for tactical-level and theater-level signals 
        intelligence capabilities to support the combatant commands and 
        national intelligence consumers.
            (3) The principal Navy airborne signals intelligence 
        capability today is the EP-3E Airborne Reconnaissance 
        Integrated Electronic System II (ARIES II). The aircraft and 
        associated electronic equipment of this system are aging and 
        will require replacement or substantial ongoing upgrades to 
        continue to meet requirements.
            (4) The Special Projects Aircraft (SPA) program of the Navy 
        is the second critical element in the airborne signals 
        intelligence capability of the Navy and provides the Navy its 
        most advanced, comprehensive multi-intelligence and quick-
        reaction capability available.
    (b) Requirement To Maintain Capabilities.--
            (1) Prohibition on retirement of platforms.--The Secretary 
        of the Navy may not retire the EP-3E Airborne Reconnaissance 
        Integrated Electronic System II or Special Projects Aircraft 
        platform.
            (2) Maintenance of platforms.--The Secretary of the Navy 
        shall continue to maintain and upgrade the EP-3E Airborne 
        Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System II and Special 
        Projects Aircraft platforms in order to provide capabilities 
        necessary to operate effectively against rapidly evolving 
        threats and to meet operational requirements.
            (3) Certification.--Not later than February 1, 2011, and 
        annually thereafter, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
        shall jointly certify to Congress the following:
                    (A) That the Department of Defense is maintaining 
                the EP-3E Airborne Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic 
                System II and Special Projects Aircraft platforms in 
                manner that meets all current requirements of the 
                commanders of the combatant commands.
                    (B) That any plan for the retirement or replacement 
                of the EP-3E Airborne Reconnaissance Integrated 
                Electronic System II or Special Projects Aircraft 
                platform will provide, in the aggregate, an equivalent 
                or superior capability and capacity to the platform 
                concerned.
            (4) Termination.--The requirements of this subsection shall 
        expire on the commencement of the fielding by the Navy of a 
        platform or mix of platforms and sensors that are, in the 
        aggregate, equivalent or superior to the EP-3E Airborne 
        Reconnaissance Integrated Electronic System II and Special 
        Projects Aircraft platforms in performance and support of the 
        commanders of the combatant commands.

SEC. 123. REPORTS ON SERVICE LIFE EXTENSION OF F/A-18 AIRCRAFT BY THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.

    (a) Business Case Analysis of Service Life Extension of F/A-18 
Aircraft.--Before the Secretary of the Navy can enter into a program to 
extend the service life of F/A-18 aircraft beyond 8,600 hours he must--
            (1) conduct a business case analysis comparing extension 
        the service life of existing F/A-18 aircraft with procuring 
        additional F/A-18E/F aircraft as a means of managing the 
        shortfall of the Department of the Navy in strike fighter 
        aircraft; and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the business case analysis.
    (b) Elements of Business Case Analysis.--The business case analysis 
required by subsection (a)(1) shall include the following:
            (1) An estimate of the full costs of extending, over the 
        period covered by the future-years defense program submitted to 
        Congress with the budget of the President, legacy F/A-18 
        aircraft beyond 8,600 hours, including any increases in 
        operation and maintenance costs associated with operating such 
        aircraft beyond a service life of 8,600 hours.
            (2) An estimate of the full costs of procuring, over the 
        period covered by such future-years defense program, such 
        additional F/A-18 aircraft as would be required to meet the 
        strike fighter requirements of the Department of the Navy in 
        the event the service life of legacy F/A-18 aircraft is not 
        extended beyond 8,600 hours.
            (3) An assessment of risks associated with extending the 
        service life of legacy F/A-18 aircraft beyond 8,600 hours, 
        including the level of certainty that the Department of the 
        Navy will be able to achieve such an extension.
            (4) An estimate of the cost per flight hour incurred in 
        operating legacy F/A-18 aircraft with a service life extended 
        beyond 8,600 hours.
            (5) An estimate of the cost per flight hour incurred for 
        operating new F/A-18E/F aircraft.
            (6) An assessment of any alternatives to extending the 
        service life of F/A-18 aircraft beyond 8,600 hours or buying 
        additional F/A-18 aircraft, which may be available to the Navy 
        to manage the shortfall of the Department of the Navy in strike 
        fighter aircraft.
    (c) Additional Elements of Report.--In addition to the information 
required in the business case analysis under subsection (b), the report 
of the Secretary under subsection (a) shall include an assessment of 
the following:
            (1) Differences in capabilities of--
                    (A) legacy F/A-18 aircraft that have undergone 
                service life extension;
                    (B) F/A-18E/F aircraft; and
                    (C) F-35C aircraft.
            (2) Differences in capabilities that would result under the 
        F/A-18 aircraft service life extension program if such program 
        would--
                    (A) provide only airframe life extensions to the 
                legacy F/A-18 aircraft fleet; and
                    (B) provide for airframe life extensions and 
                capability upgrades to the legacy F/A-18 aircraft 
                fleet.
            (3) Any disruption that procuring additional F/A-18 
        aircraft, rather than extending the service life of F/A-18 
        aircraft beyond 8,600 hours, would have on the plan of the Navy 
        to procure operational carrier-variant Joint Strike Fighter 
        aircraft.
            (4) Any changes that procuring additional F/A-18 aircraft, 
        rather than extending the service life of F/A-18 aircraft 
        beyond 8600 hours, would have on the force structure or force 
        mix intended by the Navy for its carrier air wings.
            (5) Any other operational implication of extending (or not 
        extending) the service life of legacy F/A-18 aircraft that the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (d) Report On Operational F/A-18 Aircraft Squadrons.--Before 
reducing the number of F/A-18 aircraft in an operational squadron of 
the Navy or Marine Corps, the Secretary must submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that discusses the 
operational risks and impacts of reducing the squadron size. The report 
shall include an assessment of the following:
            (1) The impact of the reduction on the operational 
        capability and readiness of the Navy and the Marine Corps to 
        conduct overseas contingency operations.
            (2) The impact of the reduction on the capability of the 
        Navy and the Marine Corps to meet ongoing operational demands.
            (3) Any mechanisms the Navy intends to use to mitigate any 
        risks associated with the squadron size reduction.
            (4) The impact of the reduction on pilots and ground 
        support crews of F/A-18 aircraft, in terms of training, 
        readiness, and war fighting capabilities.
    (e) Report On F/A-18 Aircraft Training Squadrons.--Before reducing 
the size of an F/A-18 aircraft training squadron, or transfer an F/A-18 
training aircraft for operational needs, the Secretary must submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report that--
            (1) described any risks to sustaining required training of 
        F/A-18 aircraft pilots with a reduced training aircraft base; 
        and
            (2) described any actions the Navy is taking to mitigate 
        the risks described under paragraph (1).

SEC. 124. INCLUSION OF BASIC AND FUNCTIONAL DESIGN IN ASSESSMENTS 
              REQUIRED PRIOR TO START OF CONSTRUCTION OF FIRST SHIP OF 
              A SHIPBUILDING PROGRAM.

    (a) Inclusion in Assessments.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 124 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 122 Stat. 28; 10 U.S.C. 7291 note) is amended by inserting 
``(and in particular completion of basic and functional design)'' after 
``completion of detail design''.
    (b) Basic and Functional Design Defined.--Subsection (d) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Basic and function design.--The term `basic and 
        functional design', for a ship, means design, whether in the 
        form of two-dimensional drawings, three-dimensional models, or 
        computer-aided models, that fixes the hull structure of the 
        ship, sets the hydrodynamics of the ship, routes all major 
        distributive systems (including electricity, water, and other 
        utilities) of the ship, and identifies the exact positioning of 
        piping and other outfitting within each block of the ship.''.

SEC. 125. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR F/A-18E, F/A-18F, AND EA-
              18G FIGHTER AIRCRAFT.

    With respect to the multiyear procurement of F/A-18E, F/A-18F, and 
EA-18G fighter aircraft:
            (1) The term ``March 1 of the year in which the Secretary 
        requests legislative authority to enter into such contract'' in 
        section 128(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2217) shall be 
        deemed to be a reference to May 15, 2010.
            (2) The requirement for the report specified in section 
        2306b(l)(4) of title 10, United States Code, shall be deemed 
        satisfied if the report is submitted to the congressional 
        defense committees not later than May 15, 2010.
            (3) The authority in section 128(a) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, as qualified by this 
        section, shall satisfy, with respect to the procurement of such 
        fighter aircraft, the requirements of subsections (i)(3) and 
        (l)(3) of section 2306b of title 10, United States Code, that a 
        multiyear contract be authorized by law in an appropriations 
        Act and an Act other than an appropriations Act.

               Subtitle D--Joint and Multiservice Matters

SEC. 141. SYSTEM MANAGEMENT PLAN AND MATRIX FOR THE F-35 JOINT STRIKE 
              FIGHTER AIRCRAFT PROGRAM.

    (a) System Management Plan.--
            (1) Plan required.--The Secretary of Defense shall, acting 
        through the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics, establish a management plan for the 
        F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft program under which 
        decisions to commit to specified levels of production are 
        linked to progress in meeting specified program milestones, 
        including design, manufacturing, testing, and fielding 
        milestones for critical system maturity elements.
            (2) Nature of plan.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall 
        align technical progress milestones with acquisition milestones 
        in a system maturity matrix. The matrix shall provide criteria 
        and conditions for comparing expected levels of demonstrated 
        system maturity with annual production commitments, starting 
        with the fiscal year 2012 production program, and continuing 
        over the remaining life of the system development and 
        demonstration program. The matrix and criteria shall include 
        elements such as the following:
                    (A) Manufacturing maturity, including on-time 
                deliveries, manufacturing process control, quality 
                rates, and labor efficiency rates.
                    (B) Engineering maturity, including metrics for the 
                number of new design actions and number of design 
                changes in a given period.
                    (C) Performance and testing progress, including 
                test points, hours and flights accomplished, 
                capabilities demonstrated, key performance parameters, 
                and attributes demonstrated.
                    (D) Mission effectiveness and system reliability, 
                including operational effectiveness and reliability 
                growth.
                    (E) Training, fielding, and deployment status.
    (b) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
        plan required by subsection (a). The report shall include--
                    (A) the proposed system maturity matrix described 
                in subsection (a)(2), including a description, for each 
                element specified in the matrix under subsection 
                (a)(2), of the criteria and milestones to be used in 
                evaluating actual program performance against planned 
                performance for each annual production commitment; and
                    (B) a description of the actions to be taken to 
                implement the plan.
            (2) Updates.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress, at or 
        about the same time as the submittal to Congress of the budget 
        of the President for any fiscal year after fiscal year 2012 (as 
        submitted pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
        States Code), any modification to the plan required by 
        subsection (a) that was made during the preceding calendar 
        year, including a rationale for each such modification.
    (c) Report on Capabilities of Marine Corps Variant of F-35 Fighter 
Aircraft at Initial Operating Capability.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the expected 
        capabilities of the F-35B Joint Strike Fighter aircraft, the 
        Marine Corps variant of that aircraft, when the Marine Corps 
        declares Initial Operating Capability for the F-35B Joint 
        Strike Fighter aircraft. The report shall be prepared in 
        consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
            (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        including a description of the following with respect to the F-
        35B Joint Strike Fighter aircraft:
                    (A) Performance of the aircraft and its subsystems.
                    (B) Expected mission capability.
                    (C) Required maintenance and logistics standards.
                    (D) Expected levels of crew training and 
                performance.
                    (E) Product improvements that are planned before 
                the Initial Operating Capability of the aircraft to be 
                made after the Initial Operating Capability of the 
                aircraft.

SEC. 142. CONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL IMAGING SATELLITE CAPACITIES.

    (a) Telescope Requirements Under Contracts After 2010.--Any 
contract for additional commercial imaging satellite capability or 
capacity entered into by the Department of Defense after December 31, 
2010, shall require that the imaging telescope providing such 
capability or capacity under such contract has an aperture of not less 
than 1.5 meters.
    (b) Continuation of Current Contracts.--The limitation in 
subsection (a) may not be construed to prohibit or prevent the 
Secretary of Defense from continuing or maintaining current commercial 
imaging satellite capability or capacity in orbit or under contract by 
December 31, 2010.

SEC. 143. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON USE OF COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS 
              FUNDS.

    (a) Quarterly Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the end of 
        each fiscal quarter, the commander of the United States Special 
        Operations Command shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the use of Combat Mission Requirements 
        funds during the preceding fiscal quarter.
            (2) Combat mission requirements funds.--For purposes of 
        this section, Combat Mission Requirements funds are amounts 
        available to the Department of Defense for Defense-wide 
        procurement in the Combat Mission Requirements subaccount of 
        the Defense-wide Procurement account.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include, for 
the fiscal quarter covered by such report, the following:
            (1) The balance of the Combat Mission Requirements 
        subaccount at the beginning of such quarter.
            (2) The balance of the Combat Mission Requirements 
        subaccount at the end of such quarter.
            (3) Any transfer of funds into or out of the Combat Mission 
        Requirements subaccount during such quarter, including the 
        source of any funds transferred into the subaccount, and the 
        objective of any transfer of funds out of the subaccount.
            (4) A description of any requirements approved for 
        procurement utilizing funds in the Combat Mission Requirements 
        subaccount during such quarter, procured utilizing funds in 
        that subaccount during such quarter, or both, including the 
        amount of such funds committed to the procurement of each such 
        requirement.
    (c) Form.--Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 144. INTEGRATION OF SOLID STATE LASER SYSTEMS INTO CERTAIN 
              AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Analysis of Feasability Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall conduct an analysis of the feasability of integrating solid state 
laser systems into the aircraft platforms specified in subsection (b) 
for purposes of permitting such aircraft to accomplish their missions, 
including to provide close air support.
    (b) Aircraft.--The aircraft platforms specified in this subsection 
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) The C-130 aircraft.
            (2) The B-1 bomber aircraft.
            (3) The F-35 fighter aircraft.
    (c) Scope of Analysis.--The analysis required by subsection (a) 
shall include a determination of the following:
            (1) The estimated cost per unit of each laser system 
        analyzed.
            (2) The estimated cost of operation and maintenance of each 
        aircraft platform specified in subsection (b) in connection 
        with each laser system analyzed, noting that the fidelity of 
        such analysis may not be uniform for all aircraft platforms.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation as specified in the funding table in section 4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 211. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ALTERNATIVE PROPULSION SYSTEM 
              FOR THE F-35 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be obligated or expended for the development 
or procurement of an alternate propulsion system for the F-35 Joint 
Strike Fighter program until the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
congressional defense committees a certification in writing that the 
development and procurement of the alternate propulsion system--
            (1) will--
                    (A) reduce the total life-cycle costs of the F-35 
                Joint Strike Fighter program; and
                    (B) improve the operational readiness of the fleet 
                of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft; and
            (2) will not--
                    (A) disrupt the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program 
                during the research, development, and procurement 
                phases of the program; or
                    (B) result in the procurement of fewer F-35 Joint 
                Strike Fighter aircraft during the life cycle of the 
                program.

SEC. 212. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS BY DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH 
              PROJECTS AGENCY FOR OPERATION OF NATIONAL CYBER RANGE.

    (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds Pending Report.--Amounts authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act and available to the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency may not be obligated or expended for the 
National Cyber Range established in support of the Comprehensive 
National Cybersecurity Initiative until 90 days after the date on which 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives a report described in subsection (c).
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds After Report.--Commencing on the 
date that is 90 days after the date on which the Under Secretary 
submits a report described in subsection (c), amounts described in 
subsection (a) shall be available for obligation or expenditure for 
such research and development activities as the Under Secretary 
considers appropriate to ensure and assess the functionality of the 
National Cyber Range.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The report described in this subsection is 
        a report setting forth a plan for the transition of the 
        National Cyber Range to operation and sustainment.
            (2) Elements.--The report shall include, at a minimum, the 
        following:
                    (A) An analysis of various potential recipients 
                under the transition of the National Cyber Range.
                    (B) For each recipient analyzed under subparagraph 
                (A), a description of the proposed transition of the 
                National Cyber Range to such recipient, including the 
                proposed schedule and funding for such transition.
            (3) Potential recipients.--The recipients analyzed in the 
        report under paragraph (2)(A) shall include, at a minimum, the 
        following:
                    (A) A consortium for the operation and sustainment 
                of the National Cyber Range as a government-owned, 
                government-operated facility.
                    (B) A consortium for the operation and sustainment 
                of the National Cyber Range as a government-owned, 
                contractor-operated facility.

SEC. 213. ENHANCEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT OF SCIENCE, 
              MATHEMATICS, AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION.

    (a) Discharge of Support Through Military Departments.--Section 
2192(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense may carry out the authority in 
paragraph (1) through the Secretaries of the military departments.''.
    (b) Partnership Intermediaries for Purposes of Education 
Partnerships.--Section 2194 of such title is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) The Secretary of Defense may permit the director of a defense 
laboratory to enter into a cooperative agreement with an appropriate 
entity to act as an intermediary and assist the director in carrying 
out activities under this section.''.

SEC. 214. PROGRAM FOR RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEPLOYMENT OF ADVANCED 
              GROUND VEHICLES, GROUND VEHICLE SYSTEMS, AND COMPONENTS.

    (a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a 
program for research and development on, and deployment of, advanced 
technology ground vehicles, ground vehicle systems, and components 
within the Department of Defense.
    (b) Goals and Objectives.--The goals and objectives of the program 
authorized by subsection (a) are as follows:
            (1) To identify and support technological advances that are 
        necessary for the development of advanced technologies for use 
        in ground vehicles of types to be used by the Department of 
        Defense.
            (2) To procure and deploy significant quantities of 
        advanced technology ground vehicles for use by the Department.
            (3) To maximize the leverage of Federal and nongovernment 
        funds used for the development and deployment of advanced 
        technology ground vehicles, ground vehicle systems, and 
        components.
    (c) Elements of Program.--The program authorized by subsection (a) 
may include--
            (1) enhanced research and development activities for 
        advanced technology ground vehicles, ground vehicle systems, 
        and components, including--
                    (A) increased investments in research and 
                development of batteries, advanced materials, power 
                electronics, fuel cells and fuel cell systems, hybrid 
                systems, and advanced engines;
                    (B) pilot projects for the demonstration of 
                advanced technologies in ground vehicles for use by the 
                Department of Defense; and
                    (C) the establishment of public-private 
                partnerships, including research centers, manufacturing 
                and prototyping facilities, and test beds, to speed the 
                development, deployment, and transition to use of 
                advanced technology ground vehicles, ground vehicle 
                systems, and components; and
            (2) enhanced activities to procure and deploy advanced 
        technology ground vehicles in the Department, including--
                    (A) preferences for the purchase of advanced 
                technology ground vehicles;
                    (B) utilization of the authorities of the Defense 
                Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 et seq.) to 
                stimulate the development and production of advanced 
                technology systems and ground vehicles through 
                purchases, loan guarantees, and other mechanisms;
                    (C) pilot programs to demonstrate advanced 
                technology ground vehicles and associated 
                infrastructure at select defense installations;
                    (D) metrics to evaluate environmental and other 
                benefits, life cycle costs, and greenhouse gas 
                emissions associated with the deployment of advanced 
                technology ground vehicles; and
                    (E) schedules and objectives for the conversion of 
                the ground vehicle fleet of the Department to advanced 
                technology ground vehicles.
    (d) Cooperation With Industry and Academia.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may carry out the program 
        authorized by subsection (a) through partnerships and other 
        cooperative agreements with private sector entities, 
        including--
                    (A) universities and other academic institutions;
                    (B) companies in the automobile and truck 
                manufacturing industry;
                    (C) companies that supply systems and components to 
                the automobile and truck manufacturing industry; and
                    (D) any other companies or private sector entities 
                that the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Nature of cooperation.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
        any partnership or cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
        provides for private sector participants to collectively 
        contribute, in cash or in kind, not less than one-half of the 
        total cost of the activities carried out under such partnership 
        or cooperative agreement.
    (e) Coordination With Other Federal Agencies.--The program 
authorized by subsection (a) shall be carried out, to the maximum 
extent practicable, in coordination with the Department of Energy and 
other appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

SEC. 215. DEMONSTRATION AND PILOT PROJECTS ON CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) Demonstration Projects on Processes for Application of 
Commercial Technologies to National Cybersecurity Requirements.--
            (1) Projects authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may, 
        acting through the Defense Information Systems Agency and the 
        Information Systems Security Program, carry out demonstration 
        projects to assess the feasability and advisability of 
        utilizing various business models and processes to rapidly and 
        effectively identify innovative commercial technologies and 
        apply such technologies to Department of Defense and other 
        national cybersecurity requirements.
            (2) Scope of projects.--Any demonstration project under 
        paragraph (1) shall be carried out in such a manner as to 
        contribute to the cyber policy review of the President and the 
        Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative.
    (b) Pilot Programs on Cybersecurity Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall support or 
        conduct at least four pilot programs on cybersecurity in 
        accordance with the requirements of this subsection.
            (2) Threat sensing and warning for information networks 
        worldwide.--Under one of the pilot programs under this 
        subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall support the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security in promoting the establishment 
        of a consortium of major telecommunications service providers, 
        Internet service providers, and other appropriate commercial 
        entities, which consortium shall seek to achieve the following:
                    (A) A comprehensive view of information networks 
                worldwide.
                    (B) A capability for threat sensing and warning 
                within such networks.
                    (C) If determined advisable by the Secretary of 
                Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security for 
                purposes of the pilot program, a capability for 
                defending the Internet domains of the United States 
                Government and the Department of Defense and 
                appropriate elements of the defense industrial base.
            (3) Managed security services for cybersecurity within 
        defense industrial base.--Under one of the pilot programs under 
        this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, assess 
        the feasability and advisability of utilizing managed security 
        services to improve the cybersecurity capabilities of elements 
        of the defense industrial base. In utilizing managed security 
        services for that purpose under the pilot program, the 
        Secretary may provide for the following:
                    (A) Utilizing threat intelligence feeds from 
                Government and commercial sources.
                    (B) Engaging in intrusion detection and prevention 
                based on known signatures and patterns of behavior.
                    (C) Utilizing automated reporting to Government 
                network and security operations centers.
                    (D) Utilizing context-enabled and content-enabled 
                analysis tools and services to detect and react to 
                previously unknown attack techniques.
                    (E) Utilizing innovative system integrity 
                validation and memory analysis tools.
                    (F) Utilizing careful and rigorous control of 
                internal environments and configurations to enable 
                continuous monitoring of vulnerability status and 
                deviations from baselines and to enable assessment of 
                data loss during an incident.
                    (G) Utilizing a major Internet service provider or 
                network access point provider to provide visibility of 
                developing threats and information network 
                infrastructure through which to provide managed 
                security services under the pilot program.
            (4) Use of private processes and infrastructure to address 
        threats, problems, vulnerabilities, or opportunities in 
        cybersecurity.--Under one of the pilot programs under this 
        subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall assess the 
        feasability and advisability of entering into a partnership 
        with one or more private sector entities (including private 
        industry entities, academia, and non-profit institutions) to 
        establish processes and infrastructure in the private sector to 
        permit the Department of Defense to address threats, problems, 
        vulnerabilities, or opportunities in cybersecurity. In entering 
        into a partnership under the pilot program, the Secretary may 
        seek to provide for the following:
                    (A) The rapid acquisition by the Department of 
                Defense of operational or technical capabilities from 
                the private sector to address threats, problems, 
                vulnerabilities, or opportunities in cybersecurity.
                    (B) For purposes of enabling private sector control 
                of resulting intellectual property (while reserving 
                appropriate rights for the Government), and to 
                transition capabilities into both the Government and 
                commercial markets using commercial development and 
                integration practices, the following:
                            (i) The identification and procurement of 
                        cybersecurity capabilities applicable to both 
                        Government and private-sector needs.
                            (ii) The incentivization of investments in 
                        cybersecurity technology and capabilities by 
                        the private sector.
            (5) Processes for uniform evaluation of commercial 
        cybersecurity products and services.--Under one of the pilot 
        programs under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        assess the feasability and advisability of developing a process 
        for the evaluation of commercial cybersecurity products and 
        services utilizing a common set of standards and a common 
        taxonomy. The process developed for purposes of the pilot 
        program shall include metrics on the performance of different 
        cybersecurity solutions that enable senior Department of 
        Defense officials to--
                    (A) assess and compare cybersecurity products 
                across information technology functions that must be 
                accomplished within the components under their 
                jurisdiction; and
                    (B) combine different cybersecurity products and 
                services in order to build comprehensive and highly 
                capable cybersecurity solutions within and across 
                organizational boundaries.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Reports required.--Not later than eight months after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter 
        at or about the time of the submittal to Congress of the budget 
        of the President for a fiscal year (as submitted pursuant to 
        section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code), the Secretary 
        of Defense shall, in coordination with the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, submit to Congress a report on any 
        demonstration projects carried out under subsection (a), and on 
        the pilot projects carried out under subsection (b) for which 
        the Secretary of Defense has lead responsibility, during the 
        preceding year.
            (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of any activities 
                under the demonstration projects and pilot projects 
                referred to in paragraph (1) during the preceding year.
                    (B) For the pilot project required by subsection 
                (b)(3):
                            (i) An assessment of the extent to which 
                        managed security services covered by the pilot 
                        project could provide effective and affordable 
                        cybersecurity capabilities for components of 
                        the Department of Defense and for entities in 
                        the defense industrial base, and an assessment 
                        whether such services could be expanded rapidly 
                        to a large scale without exceeding the ability 
                        of the Government to manage such expansion.
                            (ii) An assessment of whether managed 
                        security services are compatible with the 
                        cybersecurity strategy of the Department of 
                        Defense of conducting an active defense in 
                        depth under the direction of United States 
                        Cyber Command.
                    (C) For the pilot project required by subsection 
                (b)(4):
                            (i) A description of any performance 
                        metrics established for purposes of the pilot 
                        project, and a description of any processes 
                        developed for purposes of accountability and 
                        governance under any partnership under the 
                        pilot project.
                            (ii) An assessment of the role a 
                        partnership such as a partnership under the 
                        pilot project would play in the acquisition of 
                        cyberspace capabilities by the Department of 
                        Defense, including a role with respect to 
                        requirements development and approval, approval 
                        and oversight of acquiring capabilities, test 
                        and evaluation of new capabilities, and 
                        budgeting for new capabilities.
                    (D) For the pilot project required by subsection 
                (b)(5):
                            (i) An assessment of the viability of a 
                        establishing a process and taxonomy for the 
                        evaluation of commercial cybersecurity 
                        technologies within a common framework.
                            (ii) An assessment of the advantages and 
                        disadvantages of selected commercial 
                        cybersecurity products and capabilities, as 
                        determined through metrics associated with the 
                        evaluation process under the pilot project.
                            (iii) An assessment of the ease or 
                        difficulty of integrating commercial 
                        cybersecurity products and capabilities with 
                        the cybersecurity capabilities of the 
                        Department of Defense through the metrics and 
                        taxonomy associated with the evaluation 
                        process.
                            (iv) An assessment of whether there are 
                        gaps in current and planned cybersecurity 
                        capabilities of the Department of Defense that 
                        could be addressed through the implementation 
                        of integrated solutions identified through the 
                        evaluation process.
            (3) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
        submitted in both unclassified form and classified form.
    (d) Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by 
section 201 and available for research, development, test, and 
evaluation, Defense-wide activities, for the Defense Information 
Systems Agency for Program Element 32019K, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4201, $30,000,000 shall be available to carry out 
demonstration projects authorized by subsection (a) and the pilot 
projects required by subsection (b).

                  Subtitle C--Missile Defense Matters

SEC. 231. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On September 17, 2009, President Obama announced the 
        decision to proceed with the Phased Adaptive Approach (PAA) to 
        missile defense in Europe, a plan that was unanimously 
        recommended by the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of 
        Staff.
            (2) The Phased Adaptive Approach to missile defense in 
        Europe is designed to defend European territory of North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries against the 
        evolving threat of ballistic missiles from Iran, starting with 
        defense against existing short-range and medium-range missiles, 
        and to supplement defense of the United States against 
        potential future long-range missiles from Iran.
            (3) The Phased Adaptive Approach has four phases, and is 
        centered around the deployment of Aegis Ballistic Missile 
        Defense (BMD) systems at sea and on land in Europe.
            (4) Phase 1 of the Phased Adaptive Approach will be 
        deployed in the 2011 timeframe, and is planned to include the 
        deployment of Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense vessels with 
        Standard Missile-3 Block IA interceptors, and the deployment of 
        an AN/TPY-2 radar in southern Europe.
            (5) Phase 2 of the Phased Adaptive Approach will be 
        deployed in the 2015 timeframe, and is planned to include the 
        deployment of Standard Missile-3 Block IB interceptors on Aegis 
        Ballistic Missile Defense vessels and at an Aegis Ashore site 
        in Romania.
            (6) Phase 3 of the Phased Adaptive Approach will be 
        deployed in the 2018 timeframe, and is planned to include the 
        deployment of Standard Missile-3 Block IIA interceptors on 
        Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense vessels, and at an Aegis Ashore 
        site in Poland.
            (7) Phase 4 of the Phased Adaptive Approach will be 
        deployed in the 2020 timeframe, and is planned to include a new 
        land-based variant of the Standard Missile-3 interceptor, the 
        Block IIB. This interceptor is intended to be capable of 
        intercepting potential future long-range ballistic missiles 
        from Iran early in flight, including intercontinental missiles 
        that could be capable of reaching the United States.
            (8) In February, 2010, the Department of Defense released 
        the first-ever Ballistic Missile Defense Review Report, as 
        required by section 234 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
        Stat. 4393). The Ballistic Missile Defense Review stated that 
        the Phased Adaptive Approach will be pursued in additional 
        regions, as appropriate, including the Middle East and East 
        Asia.
            (9) The Ground-based Midcourse Defense system will soon 
        have 30 operational Ground-Based Interceptors deployed in 
        Alaska and California, capable of providing defense of the 
        United States against potential long-range missile threats from 
        North Korea or Iran. In June 2009, Secretary of Defense Robert 
        Gates wrote that the system ``provides a robust capability to 
        deal with the ICBM threat from rogue countries for the 
        foreseeable future''.
            (10) In a unilateral statement accompanying the signing of 
        the New START Treaty on April 8, 2010, the United States 
        Government said that the ``United States intends to continue 
        improving and deploying its missile defense systems in order to 
        defend itself against limited attack and as part of our 
        collaborative approach to strengthening stability in key 
        regions''.
            (11) On May 18, 2010, in testimony to the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate concerning the New START 
        Treaty, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates stated ``the treaty 
        will not constrain the United States from deploying the most 
        effective missile defenses possible, nor impose additional 
        costs or barriers on those defenses. As the administration's 
        Ballistic Missile Defense Review and budget plans make clear, 
        the United States will continue to improve our capability to 
        defend ourselves, our deployed forces, and our allies and 
        partners against ballistic missile threats. We made this clear 
        to the Russians in a unilateral statement made in connection 
        with the treaty''.
            (12) The Department of Defense is continuing the 
        development and testing of the two-stage Ground-Based 
        Interceptor as part of a hedging strategy for defense of the 
        United States homeland against limited ballistic missile attack 
        from nations such as North Korea or Iran, consistent with the 
        testimony of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy on 
        October 1, 2009, that ``we keep the development of the two-
        stage GBI on the books as a hedge in case things come earlier, 
        in case there's any kind of technological challenge with the 
        later models of the SM-3''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress--
            (1) that the Phased Adaptive Approach to missile defense in 
        Europe is an appropriate response to the existing ballistic 
        missile threat from Iran to European territory of North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization countries, and to potential future 
        ballistic missile capabilities of Iran, and, as indicated by 
        the April 19, 2010, certification by the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, meets 
        congressional guidance provided in section 235 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-
        84; 123 Stat. 2234);
            (2) that the Phased Adaptive Approach to missile defense in 
        Europe is not intended to, and will not, provide a missile 
        defense capability relative to the ballistic missile deterrent 
        forces of the Russian Federation, or diminish strategic 
        stability with the Russian Federation;
            (3) to support the efforts of the United States Government 
        and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to pursue 
        cooperation with the Russian Federation on ballistic missile 
        defense relative to Iranian missile threats;
            (4) that the Ground-based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system 
        deployed in Alaska and California currently provides adequate 
        defensive capability for the United States against potential 
        and forseeable future long-range ballistic missiles from Iran, 
        and this capability will be enhanced as the system is improved, 
        including by the planned deployment of an AN/TPY-2 radar in 
        southern Europe in 2011;
            (5) that the United States should, as stated in its 
        unilateral statement accompanying the New START Treaty, 
        ``continue improving and deploying its missile defense systems 
        in order to defend itself against limited attack and as part of 
        our collaborative approach to strengthening stability in key 
        regions'';
            (6) that, as part of this effort, the Department of Defense 
        should pursue the development, testing, and deployment of 
        operationally effective versions of all variants of the 
        Standard Missile-3 for all four phases of the Phased Adaptive 
        Approach to missile defense in Europe;
            (7) that the SM-3 Block IIB interceptor missile planned for 
        deployment in Phase 4 of the Phased Adaptive Approach should be 
        capable of addressing the potential future threat of 
        intermediate-range and long-range ballistic missiles from Iran, 
        including intercontinental ballistic missiles that could be 
        capable of reaching the United States;
            (8) that there are no constraints contained in the New 
        START Treaty on the development or deployment by the United 
        States of effective missile defenses, including all phases of 
        the Phased Adaptive Approach to missile defense in Europe and 
        further enhancements to the Ground-based Midcourse Defense 
        system, as well as future missile defenses; and
            (9) that the Department of Defense should continue the 
        development, testing, and assessment of the two-stage Ground-
        Based Interceptor in such a manner as to provide a hedge 
        against potential technical challenges with the development of 
        the SM-3 Block IIB interceptor missile as a means of augmenting 
        the defense of Europe and of the homeland against a limited 
        ballistic missile attack from nations such as North Korea or 
        Iran.
    (c) New START Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term ``New 
START Treaty'' means the Treaty between the United States of America 
and the Russian Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and 
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010.

SEC. 232. REPEAL OF PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN CONTRACTS BY THE MISSILE 
              DEFENSE AGENCY WITH FOREIGN ENTITIES.

    Section 222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-180; 101 Stat. 1055; 10 U.S.C. 2431 
note) is repealed.

SEC. 233. MEDIUM EXTENDED AIR DEFENSE SYSTEM.

    (a) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--None of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act for the Department of Defense 
for fiscal year 2011 and available for the Medium Extended Air Defense 
System (MEADS) may be obligated or expended until the following 
conditions are met:
            (1) The Department of Defense has completed the Critical 
        Design Review and the System Program Review for the Medium 
        Extended Air Defense System program and made a decision on how 
        or whether to proceed with the program or an alternative to the 
        program.
            (2) The Secretary of Defense has submitted to the 
        congressional defense committees a report setting forth a 
        detailed explanation of the decision described in paragraph 
        (1), which report contains the elements specified in subsection 
        (b).
            (3) 60 days have elapsed following the receipt by the 
        congressional defense committees of the report described in 
        paragraph (2).
    (b) Elements of Report.--The elements specified in this subsection 
for the report described in subsection (a)(2) are the following:
            (1) A detailed description of the decision described in 
        subsection (a)(1), and the explanation for that decision.
            (2) A cost estimate, performed by the Director of Cost 
        Assessment and Program Evaluation, of the Medium Extended Air 
        Defense System program or any alternative to that program 
        decided upon by the Department of Defense as described in 
        subsection (a)(1).
            (3) An analysis of alternatives (AOA) to the Medium 
        Extended Air Defense System program and its component elements.
            (4) A description of the planned schedule and cost for the 
        development, production, and deployment of the Medium Extended 
        Air Defense System or any alternative to that system decided 
        upon by the Department as described in subsection (a)(1).
            (5) A description of the role of Germany and Italy in the 
        Medium Extended Air Defense System program or any alternative 
        to that program decided upon by the Department as described in 
        subsection (a)(1), including the role of such countries in 
        procurement or production of elements of such program.
            (6) Any other matters that the Secretary of Defense 
        considers appropriate.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report described in subsection (a)(2) 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
annex.

SEC. 234. ACQUISITION ACCOUNTABILITY REPORTS ON THE BALLISTIC MISSILE 
              DEFENSE SYSTEM.

    (a) Baselines Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
the Missile Defense Agency establishes and maintains an acquisition 
baseline for each program element of the Ballistic Missile Defense 
System, as specified in section 223 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Elements of Baselines.--Each acquisition baseline required by 
subsection (a) for a program element shall include the following:
            (1) A comprehensive schedule for the program element, 
        including--
                    (A) research and development milestones;
                    (B) acquisition milestones, including design 
                reviews and key decision points;
                    (C) key test events, including ground and flight 
                tests and Ballistic Missile Defense System tests; and
                    (D) delivery and fielding schedules.
            (2) A detailed technical description of--
                    (A) the capability to be developed, including 
                hardware and software;
                    (B) system requirements;
                    (C) how the proposed capability satisfies a 
                capability identified by the commanders of the 
                combatant commands on a Prioritized Capabilities List;
                    (D) key knowledge points that must be achieved to 
                permit continuation of the program and to inform 
                production and deployment decisions; and
                    (E) how the Missile Defense Agency plans to improve 
                the capability over time.
            (3) A cost estimate for the program element, including--
                    (A) a life cycle cost estimate;
                    (B) program acquisition unit costs for the program 
                element;
                    (C) average procurement unit costs and program 
                acquisition costs for the program element; and
                    (D) an identification when the program Joint Cost 
                Analysis Requirements Description document is scheduled 
                to be approved.
            (4) A test baseline summarizing the comprehensive test 
        program for the program element outlined in the Integrated 
        Master Test Plan.
    (c) Annual Reports on Acquisition Baselines.--
            (1) Annual reports required.--Not later than February 15, 
        2011, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Missile 
        Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the acquisition baselines required by 
        subsection (a). The first such report shall set forth the 
        acquisition baselines, and each later report shall identify the 
        significant changes or variances, if any, in any such baseline 
        from any earlier report under this subsection.
            (2) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (d) Annual Reports on Missile Defense Executive Board Activities.--
The Director shall include in each report under subsection (c) a 
description of the activities of the Missile Defense Executive Board 
during the preceding fiscal year, including the following:
            (1) A list of each meeting of the Board during the 
        preceding fiscal year.
            (2) The agenda and issues considered at each such meeting.
            (3) A description of any decisions or recommendations made 
        by the Board at each such meeting.

SEC. 235. INDEPENDENT REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF THE GROUND-BASED 
              MIDCOURSE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

    (a) Independent Review and Assessment Required.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall select an appropriate entity outside the Department of 
Defense to conduct an independent review and assessment of the Ground-
Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) system. In selecting the entity to 
conduct the review and assessment, the Secretary shall consult with the 
chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the chairman and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Elements.--The review and assessment required by this section 
shall address current Department of Defense plans with respect to the 
following:
            (1) The force structure and inventory levels necessary for 
        the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense system to achieve the 
        planned capabilities of that system, including an analysis of 
        costs and potential advantages of deploying additional 
        operational ground-based interceptor missiles.
            (2) The number of ground-based interceptor missiles 
        necessary for operational assets, test assets (including 
        developmental and operational test assets and aging and 
        surveillance test assets), and spare missiles for the Ground-
        Based Midcourse Defense system.
            (3) The plan to maintain the operational effectiveness of 
        the Ground-Based Midcourse Defense system over the course of 
        its service life, including any modernization or capability 
        enhancement efforts, and any sustainment efforts.
            (4) The plan for funding the development, production, 
        deployment, testing, improvement, and sustainment of the 
        Ground-Based Midcourse Defense system.
            (5) The plan for flight testing the Ground-Based Midcourse 
        Defense system, including aging and surveillance tests to 
        demonstrate the continuing effectiveness of the system over the 
        course of its service life.
            (6) The plan for production of ground-based interceptor 
        missiles necessary for operational test assets, aging and 
        surveillance test assets, and spare missiles for the Ground-
        Based Midcourse Defense system.
    (c) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the entity conducting the review and assessment 
under this section shall submit to the Secretary and the congressional 
defense committees a report containing--
            (1) the results of the review and assessment; and
            (2) recommendations on how the Department of Defense may 
        improve upon its plans to ensure the availability, reliability, 
        maintainability, supportability, and improvement of the Ground-
        Based Midcourse Defense system.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDING.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                  Subtitle B--Environmental Provisions

SEC. 311. REIMBURSEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY FOR CERTAIN 
              COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE TWIN CITIES ARMY AMMUNITION 
              PLANT, MINNESOTA.

    (a) Authority to Reimburse.--
            (1) Transfer amount.--Using funds described in subsection 
        (b) and notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, United States 
        Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer not more than 
        $5,620,000 in fiscal year 2011 to the Hazardous Substance 
        Superfund.
            (2) Purpose of reimbursement.--The amount authorized to be 
        transferred under paragraph (1) is to reimburse the 
        Environmental Protection Agency for costs the Agency incurred 
        relating to the response actions performed at the Twin Cities 
        Army Ammunition Plant, Minnesota.
            (3) Interagency agreement.--The reimbursement described in 
        paragraph (2) is intended to satisfy certain terms of the 
        interagency agreement entered into by the Department of the 
        Army and the Environmental Protection Agency for the Twin 
        Cities Army Ammunition Plant that took effect in December 1987 
        and that provided for the recovery of expenses by the Agency 
        from the Department of the Army.
    (b) Source of Funds.--The transfer of funds authorized in 
subsection (a) shall be made using funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2011 for operation and maintenance for Environmental 
Restoration, Army.

SEC. 312. PAYMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OF STIPULATED 
              PENALTIES IN CONNECTION WITH NAVAL AIR STATION, 
              BRUNSWICK, MAINE.

    (a) Authority to Transfer Funds.--
            (1) Transfer amount.--Using funds described in subsection 
        (b) and notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, United States 
        Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer not more than 
        $153,000 to the Hazardous Substance Superfund.
            (2) Purpose of transfer.--The payment under paragraph (1) 
        is to satisfy a stipulated penalty assessed by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency on June 12, 2008, against Naval 
        Air Station, Brunswick, Maine, for the failure by the Navy to 
        timely sample certain monitoring wells pursuant to a schedule 
        included in a Federal Facility Agreement.
            (3) Federal facility agreement.--The stipulated penalty 
        described in paragraph (2) is provided for in the Federal 
        Facility Agreement entered into by the Department of the Navy 
        and the Environmental Protection Agency for Naval Air Station, 
        Brunswick, on October 19, 1990.
    (b) Source of Funds.--Any payment under subsection (a) shall be 
made using funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 for 
the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005.
    (c) Use of Funds.--The Environmental Protection Agency shall accept 
the amount transferred under subsection (a) as payment of the penalty 
described under paragraph (2) of such subsection.

SEC. 313. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND 
              DISEASE REGISTRY INVESTIGATION OF EXPOSURE TO DRINKING 
              WATER CONTAMINATION AT CAMP LEJEUNE, NORTH CAROLINA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On March 22, 2010, the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
        Disease Registry (ATSDR) sent a letter to the Department of the 
        Navy raising concerns about the completeness of historical and 
        contemporary documents, records, and electronic data provided 
        by the Department of the Navy pertaining to ATSDR scientific 
        studies of contamination and remediation of the base-wide 
        drinking water systems and sites at Camp Lejeune, North 
        Carolina.
            (2) The discovery of records pertaining to the 
        contamination of Camp Lejeune drinking water systems should not 
        depend on specific requests from ATSDR, but on a shared goal of 
        ensuring the scientific accuracy of the studies conducted 
        pursuant to the Annual Plan of Work of ATSDR and the 
        responsibility of the Secretary of Defense to provide relevant 
        information.
    (b) Requirement.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall--
            (1) take appropriate actions to ensure that ATSDR has full 
        access to all documents described in the March 22, 2010, letter 
        of ATSDR referred to in subsection (a)(1);
            (2) make appropriate staff available to work with ATSDR 
        to--
                    (A) reconcile all inventories of documents 
                referenced and described in the March 22, 2010, letter 
                of ATSDR with records and data previously supplied to 
                ATSDR; and
                    (B) identify documents described in the March 22, 
                2010, letter of ATSDR that are most relevant to the 
                ATSDR review; and
            (3) conduct a good faith review to identify any additional 
        historical or contemporary documents, records, or electronic 
        data pertaining to the contamination sites at Camp Lejeune 
        listed under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
        Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 and the Solid Waste 
        Disposal Act that are relevant to the ATSDR studies of 
        contamination and remediation of the base-wide drinking water 
        systems and sites at Camp Lejeune that are in the possession of 
        the Department of the Navy and have not previously been 
        provided to ATSDR.
    (c) Limitation on Use of Funds.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act may be used to administratively process or 
adjudicate any claim filed regarding water contamination at Camp 
Lejeune until ATSDR fully completes all epidemiological and water 
modeling studies relevant to such contamination that are ongoing as of 
June 1, 2010.
    (d) Resolution of Certain Disputes.--The Secretary of the Navy 
shall make every effort to resolve any dispute arising between the 
Secretary of the Navy and ATSDR that is covered by the Interagency 
Agreement Between the Department of Health and Human Services Agency 
for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry and the Department of Army or 
any successor memorandum of understanding not later than 60 days after 
the date on which the dispute first arises. In the event the Secretary 
is unable to resolve such a dispute within 60 days, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the reasons 
why an agreement has not yet been reached, the actions that the 
Secretary plans to take to reach agreement, and the schedule for taking 
such actions.

SEC. 314. COMMISSION ON MILITARY ENVIRONMENTAL EXPOSURES.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall establish a commission (to 
be known as the ``Commission on Military Environmental Exposures'') to 
provide expert advice to the President and Congress on matters relating 
to exposures of current and former members of the Armed Forces and 
their dependants to environmental hazards on military installations.
    (b) Composition.--The Commission shall consist of 9 members, who 
shall not be officials or employees of the Federal Government, 
appointed by the President after consultation with the Chairs and 
ranking minority members of the Committees on Armed Services and 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives, and 
who shall have backgrounds in environmental exposure analysis or 
environmental exposure assessments, health monitoring, environmental 
health, epidemiology, industrial hygiene, facility or installation 
management, biostatistics, public health, or other relevant fields.
    (c) Appointments.--
            (1) Deadline.--All members of the Commission shall be 
        appointed not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled 
        in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (d) Chairperson.--The President shall select from among the 
membership of the Commission a Chairperson.
    (e) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum.
    (f) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
Chairperson.
    (g) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act 
at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such 
evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out the 
purposes of this section.
    (h) Compensation.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        member of the Commission--
                    (A) shall be paid compensation out of funds made 
                available for the purposes of this section at the daily 
                equivalent of the highest rate payable under section 
                5332 of title 5, United States Code, for each day 
                (including travel time) during which the member is 
                engaged in the actual performance of duties as a member 
                of the Commission; and
                    (B) while away from the member's home or regular 
                place of business on necessary travel in the actual 
                performance of duties as a member of the Commission, 
                shall be paid per diem, travel, and transportation 
                expenses in the same manner as is provided under 
                subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
                Code.
            (2) Limitation.--A member of the Commission may not be paid 
        compensation under paragraph (1)(B) for more than 120 days in 
        any calendar year.
    (i) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Chairperson of the Commission shall, 
        without regard to the civil service laws and regulations, 
        appoint an executive director of the Commission, who shall be a 
        civilian employee of the National Institute of Environmental 
        Health Sciences, and such other personnel as may be necessary 
        to enable the Commission to perform its duties. The appointment 
        of an executive director shall be subject to approval by the 
        Commission.
            (2) Compensation.--The Chairperson of the Commission may 
        fix the compensation of the executive director and other 
        personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
        subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, 
        relating to classification of positions and General Schedule 
        pay rates, except that the rate of pay for the executive 
        director and other personnel may not exceed the rate payable 
        for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
        such title.
    (j) Detail of Government Employees.--Upon request of the 
Chairperson of the Commission, the head of any Federal department or 
agency may detail, on a nonreimbursable basis, any personnel of that 
department or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its 
duties.
    (k) Report.--
            (1) Submission to president.--Not later than one year after 
        the first meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall 
        submit to the President a report on the exposures of current 
        and former members of the Armed forces and their dependants to 
        environmental hazards on military installations, not including 
        the exposures of individuals to environmental hazards at 
        military installations during periods in which imminent danger 
        pay is authorized to be paid the individuals under section 310 
        of title 37, United States Code.
            (2) Content.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following elements:
                    (A) Recommendations for how the Federal Government 
                should respond to the issue of exposures of current and 
                former members of the Armed Forces and their dependents 
                to environmental hazards on military installations, 
                including evaluating exposure risk and responding to 
                requests for redress, including compensation.
                    (B) An analysis of the viability of the Federal 
                Tort Claims Act as a remedy for dependents of current 
                and former members of the Armed Forces potentially 
                exposed to such environmental hazards.
                    (C) Recommendations for how to address health 
                concerns of current and former members of the Armed 
                Forces and their dependants in connection with possible 
                exposure to such environmental hazards, including the 
                feasibility of utilizing Medicare and other Federally 
                funded forms of insurance.
                    (D) An inventory of all military installations that 
                are included on the National Priorities List developed 
                by the President in accordance with section 
                105(a)(8)(B) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
                U.S.C. 9605(a)(8)(B)), and an estimate of the magnitude 
                of the problem of exposures to environmental hazards at 
                such installations, including an estimate of the number 
                of individuals potentially exposed.
                    (E) Recommendations for other forms of redress for 
                such members and dependants, including possible 
                monetary compensation.
            (3) Submission to congress.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the report is submitted to the President under paragraph (1), 
        the President shall submit the report, together with the 
        President's comments, to the Chairs and ranking minority 
        members of the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' 
        Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (l) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 180 days after the 
date on which the Commission submits the report required under 
subsection (k).
    (m) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
interpreted to impede, encroach, or delay any studies, reviews, or 
assessments of any actual or potential environmental exposures at any 
military installations, including the studies included in the ATSDR's 
Annual Plan of Work regarding the water contamination at Camp Lejeune 
or the requirements included in section 313 of this Act pertaining to 
water contamination at Camp Lejeune. Likewise, nothing in this section 
will impede, encroach or delay ATSDR's statutory obligations including 
its obligations under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation and Liability Act, regarding Superfund sites. 
Additionally, nothing is this section shall be interpreted to impede, 
encroach or delay the remediation of any environmental contamination or 
hazard at any military installation.

                 Subtitle C--Workplace and Depot Issues

SEC. 321. DEPOT LEVEL MAINTENANCE AND RECAPITALIZATION PARTS SUPPLY.

    (a) Finding.--Congress recognizes the need for depot level 
maintenance and recapitalization of assets as Brigade Combat Teams 
reset.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense 
        Logistics Agency shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the status of the DLA Joint Logistics Operations 
        Center's Drawdown, Retrograde and Reset Program for the 
        equipment from Iraq and Afghanistan and the status of the 
        overall supply chain management of repairing this materiel.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The scope of operation to repair and re-supply 
                materiel to the military services, including projected 
                costs and lists of major components needed.
                    (B) The current and projected timeline for the 
                completion of the Drawdown, Retrograde and Reset 
                Program in Iraq.
                    (C) The percentage and level of expected 
                refurbishment to take place in the United States and 
                the percentage and level of expected refurbishment 
                overseas.
                    (D) A comprehensive assessment of parts management, 
                including a timeline of cumulative backlogs or parts on 
                backorder, impacts on projected manufacturing 
                competition time, and plans to reduce and minimize 
                backlogs in parts availability.
    (c) Required Improvements.--
            (1) New solutions.--The Director of the Defense Logistics 
        Agency shall work with the Materiel Commands of the Army, Navy, 
        Air Force, and Marines to find more efficient, virtual 
        manufacturing solutions that will provide capacity and 
        flexibility.
            (2) Use of existing commercial systems.--If the Director of 
        the Defense Logistics Agency finds that critical manufactured 
        parts are not meeting the on-demand requirements of the 
        warfighter, the Defense Logistics Agency and the Materiel 
        Commands may work with outside commercial partners to utilize 
        existing, turn-key production systems that have demonstrated 
        the capability to reduce costs of parts and improve 
        manufacturing efficiency.

                      Subtitle D--Energy Security

SEC. 331. ALTERNATIVE AVIATION FUEL INITIATIVE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Dependence on foreign sources of oil is detrimental to 
        the national security of the United States due to possible 
        disruptions in supply.
            (2) The Department of Defense is the largest single 
        consumer of fuel in the United States.
            (3) The United States Air Force is the largest consumer of 
        fuel in the Department of Defense.
            (4) The dramatically fluctuating price of fuel can have a 
        significant budgetary impact on the Department of Defense.
            (5) The United States Air Force uses about 2,600,000,000 
        gallons of jet fuel a year, or 10 percent of the entire 
        domestic market in aviation fuel.
            (6) The Air Force's Alternative Aviation Fuel Initiative 
        includes certification and testing of both biomass-derived 
        (``biofuel'') and synthetic fuel blends produced via the 
        Fischer-Tropsch (FT) process. By not later than December 31, 
        2016, the Air Force will be prepared to cost competitively 
        acquire 50 percent of the Air Force's domestic aviation fuel 
        requirement via an alternative fuel blend in which the 
        alternative component is derived from domestic sources produced 
        in a manner that is greener than fuels produced from 
        conventional petroleum.
            (7) The Air Force Energy Program will provide options to 
        reduce the use of foreign oil, by focusing on expanding 
        alternative energy options that provide favorable environmental 
        attributes as compared to currently-available options.
    (b) Continuation of Initiatives.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        continue the alternative aviation fuel initiatives of the Air 
        Force with a goal of--
                    (A) certifying its aircraft, applicable vehicles 
                and support equipment, and associated storage and 
                distribution infrastructure for unrestricted 
                operational use of a synthetic fuel blend by early 
                2011;
                    (B) being prepared to acquire 50 percent of its 
                domestic aviation fuel requirement from alternative or 
                synthetic fuels (including blends of alternative or 
                synthetic fuels with conventional fuels) by not later 
                than December 31, 2016, provided that--
                            (i) the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions 
                        associated with the production and combustion 
                        of such fuel shall be equal to or lower than 
                        such emissions from conventional fuels that are 
                        used in the same application, as determined in 
                        accordance with guidance by the Department of 
                        Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency; 
                        and
                            (ii) prices for such fuels are cost 
                        competitive with petroleum-based alternatives 
                        that are used for the same functions;
                    (C) taking actions in collaboration with the 
                commercial aviation industry and equipment 
                manufacturers to spur the development of a domestic 
                alternative aviation fuel industry; and
                    (D) taking actions in collaboration with other 
                Federal agencies, the commercial sector, and academia 
                to solicit for and test the next generation of 
                environmentally-friendly alternative aviation fuels.
            (2) Adjustment of goal.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
        adjust the goal of acquiring 50 percent of Air Force domestic 
        fuel requirements from alternative or synthetic fuels by not 
        later than December 31, 2016, if the Secretary determines in 
        writing that it would not be practicable, or in the best 
        interests of the Air Force, to do so and informs the 
        congressional defense committees within 30 days of the basis 
        for such determination.
            (3) Annual report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter in each of 
        fiscal years 2011 through 2016, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the Air Force, shall submit 
        to Congress a report on the progress of the alternative 
        aviation fuel initiative program, including--
                    (A) the status of aircraft fleet certification, 
                until complete;
                    (B) the quantities of alternative or synthetic 
                fuels (including blends of alternative or synthetic 
                fuels with conventional fuels) purchased for use by the 
                Air Force in the fiscal year ending in such year;
                    (C) progress made against published goals for such 
                fiscal year;
                    (D) the status of recovery plans to achieve any 
                goals set for previous years that were not achieved; 
                and
                    (E) the establishment or adjustment of goals and 
                objectives for the current fiscal year or for future 
                years.
    (c) Annual Report for Army and Navy.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter in each 
of fiscal years 2011 through 2016, the Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Navy shall each submit to Congress a report on goals 
and progress to research, test, and certify the use of alternative 
fuels in their respective aircraft fleets.
    (d) Defense Science Board Review.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than October 1, 2011, the 
        Defense Science Board shall report to the Secretary of Defense 
        on the feasibility and advisability of achieving the goals 
        established in subsection (b)(1). The report shall address--
                    (A) the technological and economic achievability of 
                the goals;
                    (B) the impact of actions required to meet such 
                goals on the military readiness of the Air Force, 
                energy costs, environmental performance, and dependence 
                on foreign oil; and
                    (C) any recommendations the Defense Science Board 
                may have for improving the Air Force program.
            (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
        receiving the report required by under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary of Defense shall forward the report to Congress, 
        together with the comments and recommendations of the 
        Secretary.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 341. ADDITIONAL LIMITATION ON INDEMNIFICATION OF UNITED STATES 
              WITH RESPECT TO ARTICLES AND SERVICES SOLD BY WORKING-
              CAPITAL FUNDED ARMY INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES AND ARSENALS 
              OUTSIDE THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Paragraph (6) of section 4543(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
            ``(6) the purchaser of an article or service agrees to hold 
        harmless and indemnify the United States from any claim for 
        damages or injury to any person or property arising out of the 
        article or service, except--
                    ``(A) in a case of willful misconduct or gross 
                negligence; or
                    ``(B) in a case in which damages or injury to the 
                purchaser arose out of the failure of the Federal 
                Government to comply with quality, schedule, or cost 
                performance requirements in the contract to provide the 
                article or service;''.

SEC. 342. EXTENSION OF ARSENAL SUPPORT PROGRAM INITIATIVE.

    Section 343 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (10 U.S.C. 4551 note), as amended by section 
341 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
(Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 69) and section 354 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2264), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``2011'' and inserting 
        ``2012''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)(1), by striking ``2011'' and 
        inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 343. FOUR-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE LOGISTICS SUPPORT 
              AND SERVICES FOR WEAPONS SYSTEMS CONTRACTORS.

    Section 365(g)(1) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2014''.

SEC. 344. RECOVERY OF IMPROPERLY DISPOSED OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              PROPERTY.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 165 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2790. Recovery of improperly disposed of Department of Defense 
              property
    ``(a) Prohibition.--No member of the armed forces, civilian 
employee of the United States Government, contractor personnel, or 
other person may sell, lend, pledge, barter, or give any clothing, 
arms, articles, equipment, or other military or Department of Defense 
property except in accordance with the statutes and regulations 
governing Government property.
    ``(b) Transfer of Title or Interest Ineffective.--If property has 
been disposed of in violation of subsection (a), the person holding the 
property has no right or title to, or interest in, the property.
    ``(c) Authority for Seizure of Improperly Disposed of Property.--If 
any person is in the possession of military or Department of Defense 
property without right or title to, or interest in, the property 
because it has been disposed of in violation of subsection (a), any 
Federal, State, or local law enforcement official may seize the 
property wherever found.
    ``(d) Inapplicability to Certain Property.--Subsections (b) and (c) 
shall not apply to property on public display by public or private 
collectors or museums in secured exhibits.
    ``(e) Determinations of Violations.--(1) The appropriate district 
court of the United States shall have jurisdiction, regardless of the 
current approximated or estimated value of the property, to determine 
whether property was disposed of in violation of subsection (a). Any 
such determination shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
    ``(2) In the case of property, the possession of which could 
undermine national security or create a hazard to public health or 
safety, the determination under paragraph (1) may be made after the 
seizure of the property. If the person from whom the property is seized 
is found to have been lawfully in possession of the property and the 
return of the property could undermine national security or create a 
hazard to public health or safety, the Secretary of Defense shall 
reimburse the person for the fair value for the property.
    ``(f) Delivery of Seized Property.--Any law enforcement official 
who seizes property under subsection (c) and is not authorized to 
retain it for the United States shall deliver the property to an 
authorized member of the armed forces or other authorized official of 
the Department of Defense or the Department of Justice.
    ``(g) Scope of Enforcement.--This section shall apply to the 
following:
            ``(1) Any military or Department of Defense property 
        disposed of on or after the date of the enactment of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 in a 
        manner that is not in accordance with statutes and regulations 
        governing Government property in effect at the time of the 
        disposal of such property.
            ``(2) Any significant military equipment disposed of on or 
        after January 1, 2002, in a manner that is not in accordance 
        with statutes and regulations governing Government property in 
        effect at the time of the disposal of such significant military 
        equipment
    ``(h) Rule of Construction.--The authority of this section is in 
addition to any other authority of the United States with respect to 
property to which the United States may have right or title.
    ``(i) Significant Military Equipment Defined.--In this section, the 
term `significant military equipment' means defense articles on the 
United States Munitions List for which special export controls are 
warranted because of their capacity for substantial military utility or 
capability.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 165 of such title is amended by inserting the following new 
item:

``2790. Recovery of improperly disposed of Department of Defense 
                            property.''.

SEC. 345. COMMERCIAL SALE OF SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION IN EXCESS OF 
              MILITARY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Commercial Sale of Small Arms Ammunition.--Small arms 
ammunition and ammunition components in excess of military 
requirements, including fired cartridge cases, which is not otherwise 
prohibited from commercial sale or certified by the Secretary of 
Defense as unserviceable or unsafe, may not be demilitarized or 
destroyed and shall be made available for commercial sale.
    (b) Deadline for Guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
guidance to ensure compliance with subsection (a). Not later than 15 
days after issuing such guidance, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a letter of compliance providing 
notice of such guidance.
    (c) Preference.--No small arms ammunition and ammunition components 
in excess of military requirements may be made available for commercial 
sale under this section before such ammunition and ammunition 
components are offered for transfer or purchase, as authorized by law, 
to another Federal department or agency or for sale to State and local 
law enforcement, firefighting, homeland security, and emergency 
management agencies pursuant to section 2576 of title 10, United States 
Code, as amended by this Act.

SEC. 346. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PRIORITIZATION OF 
              FUNDS FOR EQUIPMENT READINESS AND STRATEGIC CAPABILITY.

    (a) Prioritization of Funds.--Subsection (a) of section 323 of the 
John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (10 
U.S.C. 229 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the global war on 
        terrorism'' and inserting ``overseas contingency operations''; 
        and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``units 
                transforming to modularity'' and inserting ``modular 
                units''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``2012'' and 
                inserting ``2015''.
    (b) Budget Information.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``the global war on 
                        terrorism'' and inserting ``overseas 
                        contingency operations''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``units 
                        transforming to modularity'' and inserting 
                        ``modular units''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``; and'' at the end and 
                        inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C); and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3).
    (c) Annual Report on Army Progress.--Subsection (c) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (8), and (9) 
        as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (G) and (I), respectively;
            (3) by submitting ``(1)'' before ``On the date'';
            (4) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (3) of 
        this subsection, by striking ``in meeting'' and all that 
        follows through ``shall be itemized'' and inserting ``in 
        fulfilling the equipment requirements of modular units and in 
        repairing, recapitalizing, and replacing equipment and materiel 
        used in support of overseas contingency operations underway as 
        of the date of such report, and associated sustainment. Any 
        information included in the report shall be itemized'';
            (5) by striking ``Each such report'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(2) Each such report'';
            (6) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) as redesignated by 
        paragraphs (2) and (5) of this subsection--
                    (A) by striking``the requirements for the funding 
                priorities in subsection (a), including an 
                itemization'' and inserting ``equipment requirements''
                    (B) by striking ``modular brigades'' and inserting 
                ``modular combat, functional, and support brigades''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``the global war on terrorism'' and 
                inserting ``overseas contingency operations underway as 
                of the date of such report'';
            (7) in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2), as so 
        redesignated, by striking ``in accordance with the funding 
        priorities in subsection (a)'' and inserting ``for the purposes 
        set forth in paragraph (1)'';
            (8) in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2), as so 
        redesignated, by striking ``for the funding priorities in 
        subsection (a)'' and inserting ``for the purposes set forth in 
        paragraph (1)'';
            (9) in paragraph (2), as amended by paragraphs (2) and (5) 
        of this subsection--
                    (A) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the 
                following new subparagraphs:
            ``(D) An assessment of the key enabler equipment and 
        personnel of the Army, including--
                    ``(i) a comparison of--
                            ``(I) the authorized level of key enabler 
                        equipment;
                            ``(II) the level of key enabler equipment 
                        on hand; and
                            ``(III) the planned purchases of key 
                        enabler equipment as set forth in the future-
                        years defense program submitted with the budget 
                        for such fiscal year;
                    ``(ii) a comparison of the authorized and actual 
                personnel levels for personnel with key enabler 
                personnel specialities with the requirements for key 
                enabler personnel specialties;
                    ``(iii) an identification of any shortfalls 
                indicated by the comparisons in clauses (i) and (ii); 
                and
                    ``(iv) an assessment of the number and type of key 
                enabler equipment that the Army projects it will have 
                on hand by the end of such future-years defense program 
                that will require repair, recapitalization, or 
                replacement at or before the end of the time period 
                covered by such future-years defense program (which 
                assessment shall account for additional repair, 
                recapitalization, or replacement resulting from use of 
                key enabler equipment in overseas contingency 
                operations).
            ``(E) If an assessment under subparagraph (D) identifies 
        shortfalls that will exist within the period covered by the 
        future-years defense program submitted in such fiscal year, an 
        identification of the risks associated with such shortfalls and 
        mitigation strategies to address such risks.
            ``(F) A schedule for the accomplishment of the purposes set 
        forth in paragraph (1).'';
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the 
                following new subparagraph:
            ``(H) A description of the status of the development of 
        doctrine on how modular combat, functional, and support forces 
        will train, be sustained, and fight.''; and
            (10) in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) as redesignated 
        by paragraphs (2) and (5) of this subsection, by striking 
        ``paragraphs (1) through (8)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs 
        (A) through (H)''.
    (d) Annual Comptroller General on Army Progress.--Subsection (d) of 
such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Annual Comptroller General Report on Army Progress.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary of the Army 
submits a report under subsection (c), the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report setting forth the Comptroller General's review of such report. 
Each report under this subsection shall include such information and 
recommendations as the Comptroller General considers appropriate in 
light of such review.''.
    (e) Definitions.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d), as amended by 
        subsection (d) of this section, the following new subsection 
        (e):
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `contingency operation' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United 
        States Code.
            ``(2) The term `key enabler', in the case of equipment or 
        personnel, means equipment or personnel, as the case may be, 
        that make a modular force or unit as capable or more capable 
        than the non-modular force or unit it replaced, including the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Equipment such as tactical and high frequency 
                radio, tactical wheeled vehicles, battle command 
                systems, unmanned aerial vehicles, all-source analysis 
                systems, analysis and control elements, fire support 
                sensor systems, firefinder radar, joint network nodes, 
                long-range advanced scout surveillance systems, Trojan 
                Spirit systems (or any successor system), and any other 
                equipment items identified by the Army as making a 
                modular force or unit as capable or more capable than 
                the non-modular force or unit it replaced.
                    ``(B) Personnel in specialties needed to operate or 
                support the equipment specified in subparagraph (A) and 
                personnel in specialties relating to civil affairs, 
                communication and information systems operation, 
                explosive ordinance disposal, military intelligence, 
                psychological operations, and any other personnel 
                specialties identified by the Army as making a modular 
                force or unit as capable or more capable than the non-
                modular force or unit it replaced.''.
    (f) Termination of Report Requirement.--Subsection (f) of such 
section, as redesignated by subsection (e)(1) of this section, is 
further amended by striking ``fiscal year 2012'' and inserting ``fiscal 
year 2017''.

SEC. 347. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS ON WITHDRAWAL OR DIVERSION 
              OF EQUIPMENT FROM RESERVE UNITS FOR SUPPORT OF RESERVE 
              UNITS BEING MOBILIZED AND OTHER UNITS.

    Section 349 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2159) is repealed.

SEC. 348. REVISION TO AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TRANSPORTATION OF 
              CIVILIAN PASSENGERS AND COMMERCIAL CARGOES BY DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE WHEN SPACE UNAVAILABLE ON COMMERCIAL LINES.

    (a) Transportation on DoD Vehicles and Aircraft.--Subsection (a) of 
section 2649 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) By inserting ``Authority.--'' before ``Whenever''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, vehicles, or aircraft'' in the first 
        sentence after ``vessels'' both places it appears.
    (b) Amounts Charged for Transportation in Emergency, Disaster, or 
Humanitarian Response Cases.--
            (1) Limitation on amounts charged.--The second sentence of 
        subsection (a) of such section is amended by inserting before 
        the period the following: ``, except that in the case of 
        transportation provided in response to an emergency, a 
        disaster, or a request for humanitarian assistance, any amount 
        charged for such transportation may not exceed the cost of 
        providing the transportation''.
            (2) Crediting of receipts.--Subsection (b) of such section 
        is amended by striking ``Amounts'' and inserting ``Crediting of 
        Receipts.--Any amount received under this section with respect 
        to transportation provided in response to an emergency, a 
        disaster, or a request for humanitarian assistance may be 
        credited to the appropriation, fund, or account used in 
        incurring the obligation for which such amount is received. In 
        all other cases, amounts''.
    (c) Transportation During Contingencies or Disaster Responses.--
Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) Transportation of Allied Personnel During Contingencies or 
Disaster Responses.--When space is available on vessels, vehicles, or 
aircraft operated by the Department of Defense and the Secretary of 
Defense determines that operations in the area of a contingency 
operation or disaster response would be facilitated if allied forces or 
civilians were to be transported using such vessels, vehicles, or 
aircraft, the Secretary may provide such transportation on a 
noninterference basis, without charge.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2648 of such title is amended by 
inserting ``, vehicles, or aircraft'' after ``vessels'' in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1).
    (e) Technical Amendments.--
            (1) The heading of section 2648 of such title is amended to 
        read as follows:
``Sec. 2648. Persons and supplies: sea, land, and air transportation''.
            (2) The heading of section 2649 of such title is amended to 
        read as follows:
``Sec. 2649. Civilian passengers and commercial cargoes: transportation 
              on Department of Defense vessels, vehicles, and 
              aircraft''.
    (f) Clerical Amendments.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 157 of such title is amended by striking the items relating to 
sections 2648 and 2649 and inserting the following new items:

``2648. Persons and supplies: sea, land, and air transportation.
``2649. Civilian passengers and commercial cargoes: transportation on 
                            Department of Defense vessels, vehicles, 
                            and aircraft.''.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2011, as follows:
            (1) The Army, 569,400.
            (2) The Navy, 328,700.
            (3) The Marine Corps, 202,100.
            (4) The Air Force, 332,200.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2011, as follows:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 358,200.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 205,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 65,500.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 39,600.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 106,700.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 71,200.
            (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 10,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
            (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
        serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which 
        are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
        organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
        component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
        for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
        consent at the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.

SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              RESERVES.

    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2011, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 32,060.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,688.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 14,584.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 2,992.

SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the 
last day of fiscal year 2011 for the reserve components of the Army and 
the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States 
Code) shall be the following:
            (1) For the Army Reserve, 8,395.
            (2) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        27,210.
            (3) For the Air Force Reserve, 10,720.
            (4) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
        22,394.

SEC. 414. FISCAL YEAR 2011 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF NON-DUAL STATUS 
              TECHNICIANS.

    (a) Limitations.--
            (1) National guard.--Within the limitation provided in 
        section 10217(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the number 
        of non-dual status technicians employed by the National Guard 
        as of September 30, 2011, may not exceed the following:
                    (A) For the Army National Guard of the United 
                States, 1,600.
                    (B) For the Air National Guard of the United 
                States, 350.
            (2) Army reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
        technicians employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 
        2011, may not exceed 595.
            (3) Air force reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
        technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 
        30, 2011, may not exceed 90.
    (b) Non-dual Status Technicians Defined.--In this section, the term 
``non-dual status technician'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 10217(a) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 415. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

    During fiscal year 2011, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be appropriated for military personnel for fiscal year 2011 a total of 
$138,540,700,000.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2011.

                Subtitle D--Armed Forces Retirement Home

SEC. 431. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $71,200,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

SEC. 501. MODIFICATION OF PROMOTION BOARD PROCEDURES FOR JOINT 
              QUALIFIED OFFICERS AND OFFICERS WITH JOINT STAFF 
              EXPERIENCE.

    (a) Board Composition.--Section 612(c) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``serving in, or have served in, joint duty 
        assignments'' and inserting ``serving on, or have served on, 
        the Joint Staff or are joint qualified officers'';
            (2) by striking ``currently serving in a joint duty 
        assignment'' and inserting ``a joint qualified officer''; and
            (3) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``or in the case of a selection board that is 
        considering officers in specialties identified in paragraph (2) 
        or (3) of section 619a(b) of this title''.
    (b) Information Furnished to Selection Boards.--Section 615 of such 
title is amended in subsections (b)(5) and (c) by striking ``in joint 
duty assignments of officers who are serving, or have served, in such 
assignments'' and inserting ``of officers who are serving on, or have 
served on, the Joint Staff or are joint qualified officers''.
    (c) Action on Report of Selection Boards.--Section 618(b) of such 
title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``serving, or have 
        served, in joint duty assignments'' and inserting ``serving on, 
        or have served on, the Joint Staff or are joint qualified 
        officers'';
            (2) in paragraphs (2)(A) and (2)(B), by striking ``in joint 
        duty assignments of officers who are serving, or have served, 
        in such assignments'' and inserting ``of officers who are 
        serving on, or have served on, the Joint Staff or are joint 
        qualified officers''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``in joint duty 
        assignments'' and inserting ``who are serving on, or have 
        served on, the Joint Staff or are joint qualified officers''.

SEC. 502. NONDISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION FROM DISCUSSIONS, DELIBERATIONS, 
              NOTES, AND RECORDS OF SPECIAL SELECTION BOARDS.

    (a) Nondisclosure of Board Proceedings.--Section 613a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 611'' and all 
        that follows through ``the board'' and inserting the following: 
        ``section 573, 611, or 628 of this title may not be disclosed 
        to any person not a member of the board except as authorized or 
        required by this title to process the board's report. The 
        prohibition in the preceding sentence is an exemption by 
        statute referred to in paragraph (3) of section 552(b) of title 
        5.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``and Records'' and 
        inserting ``Notes, and Records''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Applicability.--This section applies to all selection boards 
convened under section 573, 611, or 628 of this title, regardless of 
the date on which the board was convened.''.
    (b) Reports of Boards.--Section 628(c)(2) of such title is amended 
by striking ``576(d) and 576(f)'' and inserting ``576(d), 576(f), and 
613a''.
    (c) Reserve Boards.--Section 14104 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 14101'' and 
        all that follows and inserting ``section 14101 or 14502 of this 
        title may not be disclosed to any person not a member of the 
        board except as authorized or required by this title to process 
        the board's report.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``and Records'' and 
        inserting ``Notes, and Records''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Applicability.--This section applies to all selection boards 
convened under section 14101 or 14502 of this title, regardless of the 
date on which the board was convened.''.

SEC. 503. ADMINISTRATIVE REMOVAL OF OFFICERS FROM PROMOTION LIST.

    (a) Active-duty List.--Section 629 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Administrative Removal.--Under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary concerned, if an officer on the active-duty list is 
discharged or dropped from the rolls or transferred to a retired status 
after having been recommended for promotion to a higher grade under 
this chapter, but before being promoted, the officer's name shall be 
administratively removed from the promotion list.''.
    (b) Reserve Active-status List.--Section 14310 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Administrative Removal.--Under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary concerned, if an officer on the reserve active-status list is 
discharged or dropped from the rolls or transferred to a retired status 
after having been recommended for promotion to a higher grade under 
this chapter or having been found qualified for Federal recognition in 
the higher grade under title 32, but before being promoted, the 
officer's name shall be administratively removed from the promotion 
list.''.

SEC. 504. TECHNICAL REVISIONS TO DEFINITION OF ``JOINT MATTERS'' FOR 
              PURPOSES OF JOINT OFFICER MANAGEMENT.

    Section 668(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``multiple'' and inserting 
                ``integrated''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end and inserting ``or''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``multiple'' and inserting 
                ``integrated''; and
                    (B) by striking ``participants from'' and all that 
                follows and inserting ``participants from--
            ``(A) more than one military department; or
            ``(B) a military department and one or more of the 
        following:
                    ``(i) Other departments and agencies of the United 
                States.
                    ``(ii) The military forces or agencies of other 
                countries.
                    ``(iii) Nongovernmental persons or entities.''.

SEC. 505. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR OFFICERS SELECTED FOR 
              APPOINTMENT TO GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES TO WEAR 
              INSIGNIA OF HIGHER GRADE BEFORE APPOINTMENT.

    (a) Limited Authority for Officers Selected for Appointment to 
Grades Above Major General and Rear Admiral.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 45 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 777a. Wearing of insignia of higher grade before appointment to 
              a grade above major general or rear admiral (frocking): 
              authority; restrictions
    ``(a) Authority.--An officer serving in a grade below the grade of 
lieutenant general or, in the case of the Navy, vice admiral, who has 
been selected for appointment to the grade of lieutenant general or 
general, or, in the case of the Navy, vice admiral or admiral, and an 
officer serving in the grade of lieutenant general or vice admiral who 
has been selected for appointment to the grade of general or admiral, 
may be authorized, under regulations and policies of the Department of 
Defense and subject to subsection (b), to wear the insignia for that 
higher grade for a period of up to 14 days before assuming the duties 
of a position for which the higher grade is authorized. An officer who 
is so authorized to wear the insignia of a higher grade is said to be 
`frocked' to that grade.
    ``(b) Restrictions.--An officer may not be authorized to wear the 
insignia for a grade as described in subsection (a) unless--
            ``(1) the Senate has given its advice and consent to the 
        appointment of the officer to that grade;
            ``(2) the officer has received orders to serve in a 
        position outside the military department of that officer for 
        which that grade is authorized;
            ``(3) the Secretary of Defense (or a civilian officer 
        within the Office of the Secretary of Defense whose appointment 
        was made with the advice and consent of the Senate and to whom 
        the Secretary delegates such approval authority) has given 
        approval for the officer to wear the insignia for that grade 
        before assuming the duties of a position for which that grade 
        is authorized; and
            ``(4) the Secretary of Defense has submitted to Congress a 
        written notification of the intent to authorize the officer to 
        wear the insignia for that grade.
    ``(c) Benefits Not To Be Construed as Accruing.--(1) Authority 
provided to an officer as described in subsection (a) to wear the 
insignia of a higher grade may not be construed as conferring authority 
for that officer to--
            ``(A) be paid the rate of pay provided for an officer in 
        that grade having the same number of years of service as that 
        officer; or
            ``(B) assume any legal authority associated with that 
        grade.
    ``(2) The period for which an officer wears the insignia of a 
higher grade under such authority may not be taken into account for any 
of the following purposes:
            ``(A) Seniority in that grade.
            ``(B) Time of service in that grade.
    ``(d) Limitation on Number of Officers Frocked.--The total number 
of officers who are authorized to wear the insignia for a higher grade 
under this section shall count against the limitation in section 777(d) 
of this title on the total number of officers authorized to wear the 
insignia of a higher grade.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 34 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``777a. Wearing of insignia of higher grade before appointment to a 
                            grade above major general or rear admiral 
                            (frocking): authority; restrictions.''.
    (b) Repeal of Waiting Period Following Congressional Notification 
for Officers Selected for Appointment to General and Flag Officer 
Grades Below Lieutenant General and Vice Admiral.--Section 777(b)(3)(B) 
of such title is amended by striking ``and a period of 30 days has 
elapsed after the date of the notification''.

SEC. 506. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO REDUCE MINIMUM LENGTH OF COMMISSIONED 
              SERVICE REQUIRED FOR VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AS AN OFFICER.

    (a) Army.--Section 3911(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``January 6, 2006, and ending on December 31, 
2008'' and inserting ``the date of the enactment of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 and ending on September 
30, 2013''.
    (b) Navy and Marine Corps.--Section 6323(a)(2)(B) of such title is 
amended by striking ``January 6, 2006, and ending on December 31, 
2008'' and inserting ``the date of the enactment of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 and ending on September 
30, 2013''.
    (c) Air Force.--Section 8911(b)(2) of such title is amended by 
striking ``January 6, 2006, and ending on December 31, 2008'' and 
inserting ``the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 and ending on September 30, 
2013''.

SEC. 507. AGE FOR APPOINTMENT AND MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR HEALTH 
              PROFESSIONS OFFICERS.

    (a) Age for Original Appointment as Health Professions Officer.--
Section 532(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``reserve''.
    (b) Mandatory Retirement Age for Health Professions Officers.--
            (1) Additional categories of officers eligible for deferral 
        of mandatory retirement for age.--Paragraph (2) of section 
        1251(b) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(D) an officer in a category of officers designated by 
        the Secretary of the military department concerned for the 
        purposes of this paragraph as consisting of officers whose 
        duties consist primarily of--
                    ``(i) providing health care;
                    ``(ii) performing other clinical care; or
                    ``(iii) performing health care-related 
                administrative duties.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (1) of such section is 
        amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``or, in the case of an officer who is a health 
        professions officer for purposes of this subsection by reason 
        of paragraph (2)(D), the officer will be performing duties 
        consisting primarily of providing health care (in the case of 
        an officer in a class of officers designated under clause (i) 
        of such paragraph), performing other clinical care (in the case 
        of an officer in a class of officers designated under clause 
        (ii) of such paragraph), or performing health-care related 
        administrative duties (in the case of an officer in a class of 
        officers designated under clause (iii) of such paragraph)''.

SEC. 508. AUTHORITY FOR PERMANENT PROFESSORS AT THE UNITED STATES AIR 
              FORCE ACADEMY TO HOLD COMMAND POSITIONS.

    Section 9334(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``However, a permanent 
professor who is on an operational tour or sabbatical duty away from 
the Academy may, if so authorized by the Secretary of the Air Force, 
exercise command of units to which assigned while on such duty.''.

SEC. 509. AUTHORITY FOR APPOINTMENT OF WARRANT OFFICERS IN THE GRADE OF 
              W-1 BY COMMISSION AND STANDARDIZATION OF WARRANT OFFICER 
              APPOINTING AUTHORITY.

    (a) Regular Officers.--
            (1) Authority for appointments by commission in warrant 
        officer w-1 grade.--The first sentence of section 571(b) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``by the 
        Secretary concerned'' and inserting ``, except that with 
        respect to an armed force under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of a military department, the Secretary concerned may 
        provide by regulation that appointments in that grade in that 
        armed force shall be made by commission''.
            (2) Appointing authority.--The second sentence of such 
        section is amended by inserting before the period at the end 
        the following: ``, and appointments (whether by warrant or 
        commission) in the grade of regular warrant officer, W-1, shall 
        be made by the President, except that appointments in that 
        grade in the Coast Guard shall be made by the Secretary 
        concerned''.
    (b) Reserve Officers.--Subsection (b) of section 12241 of such 
title is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Appointments in permanent reserve warrant officer grades 
shall be made in the same manner as is prescribed for regular warrant 
officer grades by section 571(b) of this title.''.
    (c) Presidential Functions.--Except as otherwise provided by the 
President by Executive order, the provisions of Executive Order 13384 
(10 U.S.C. 531 note) relating to the functions of the President under 
the second sentence of section 571(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
shall apply in the same manner to the functions of the President under 
section 12241(b) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 510. CONTINUATION OF WARRANT OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY TO COMPLETE 
              DISCIPLINARY ACTION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 33A of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 580a following new section:
``Sec. 580b. Continuation on active duty to complete disciplinary 
              action
    ``When any action has been commenced against a warrant officer with 
a view to trying such officer by court-martial and such warrant officer 
is to be separated or retired in accordance with this chapter, the 
Secretary of the military department concerned may delay the separation 
or retirement of the officer, without prejudice to such action, until 
the completion of such action.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 33A of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 580a the following new item:

``580b. Continuation on active duty to complete disciplinary action.''.

SEC. 511. AUTHORITY TO CREDIT MILITARY GRADUATES OF THE NATIONAL 
              DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE COLLEGE WITH COMPLETION OF JOINT 
              PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION PHASE I.

    (a) Credit as Joint Professional Military Education Phase I.--
Section 2154(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``or at a joint intermediate level school'' before the 
period.
    (b) Joint Intermediate Level School Defined.--Section 2151(b) of 
such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `joint intermediate level school' includes 
        the National Defense Intelligence College.''.

SEC. 512. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO PHASE II OF THREE-PHASE 
              APPROACH TO JOINT PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION.

    (a) Authority for Other Than In-residence Program Taught Through 
Joint Forces Staff College.--Section 2154(a)(2) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``in residence at'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``by'' after ``(A)''; 
        and
            (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``in residence at'' 
        after ``(B)''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2156(b) of such title is amended 
by inserting ``in residence'' after ``course of instruction offered''.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

SEC. 521. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR NEW OATH WHEN OFFICER TRANSFERS 
              FROM ACTIVE-DUTY LIST TO RESERVE ACTIVE-STATUS LIST.

    Section 12201(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``, in accordance with regulations 
        prescribed by the Secretary of Defense (or the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security with respect to a member of the Coast Guard 
        when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in the 
        Navy),'' after ``transferred''; and
            (2) by striking ``under section 647 of this title''.

SEC. 522. AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CERTAIN RESERVE OFFICERS AS NOT TO BE 
              CONSIDERED FOR SELECTION FOR PROMOTION.

    Section 14301 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Certain Officers Not To Be Considered for Selection for 
Promotion.--The Secretary of the military department concerned may 
provide that an officer who is in an active status but in a duty status 
in which the only points the officer accrues under section 12732(a)(2) 
of this title are pursuant to subparagraph (C)(i) of such section 
(relating to membership in a reserve component) shall not be considered 
for selection for promotion at any time the officer otherwise would be 
so considered. The officer may remain on the reserve active-status 
list.''.

SEC. 523. AUTHORITY FOR ASSIGNMENT OF AIR FORCE RESERVE MILITARY 
              TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS) TO POSITIONS OUTSIDE AIR FORCE 
              RESERVE UNIT PROGRAM.

    Section 10216(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``or by the Air Force Reserve in an area other than the Air 
Force Reserve unit program'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 524. AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT OF NON-DUAL STATUS 
              TECHNICIANS TO FILL VACANCIES CAUSED BY MOBILIZATION OF 
              MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    (a) Authority for Temporary Employment.--Subsection (a) of section 
10217 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or'' ; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) is employed to fill a vacancy created by the 
        mobilization of a military technician (dual status) occupying a 
        position under section 10216 of this title for a period not 
        longer than the shorter of--
                    ``(A) the period of mobilization of the military 
                technician (dual status) whose vacancy is being filled; 
                or
                    ``(B) two years.''.
    (b) Exception From Permanent Limitation on Number of Non-dual 
Status Technicians.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) An individual employed as a non-dual status technician as 
described in subsection (a)(3) shall not be consider a non-dual status 
technician for purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2).''.

SEC. 525. DIRECT APPOINTMENT OF GRADUATES OF THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT 
              MARINE ACADEMY INTO THE NATIONAL GUARD.

    Section 305(a)(5) of title 32, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``or the United States Coast Guard Academy'' and inserting 
``the United States Coast Guard Academy, or the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy''.

                   Subtitle C--Education and Training

SEC. 531. GRADE OF COMMISSIONED OFFICERS IN UNIFORMED MEDICAL ACCESSION 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Medical Students of USUHS.--Section 2114(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentences: ``Each medical student 
        shall be appointed as a regular officer in the grade of second 
        lieutenant or ensign. An officer so appointed may, upon meeting 
        such criteria for promotion as may be prescribed by the 
        Secretary concerned, be appointed in the regular grade of first 
        lieutenant or lieutenant (junior grade). Medical students 
        commissioned under this section shall serve on active duty in 
        their respective grades.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``grade of second 
        lieutenant or ensign'' and inserting ``grade in which the 
        member is serving under paragraph (1)''.
    (b) Participants in Health Professions Scholarship and Financial 
Assistance Program.--Section 2121(c) of such title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentences: ``Each person so 
        commissioned shall be appointed as a reserve officer in the 
        grade of second lieutenant or ensign. An officer so appointed 
        may, upon meeting such criteria for promotion as may be 
        prescribed by the Secretary concerned, be appointed in the 
        reserve grade of first lieutenant or lieutenant (junior grade). 
        Medical students commissioned under this section shall serve on 
        active duty in their respective grades for a period of 45 days 
        during each year of participation in the program.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``grade of second 
        lieutenant or ensign'' and inserting ``grade in which the 
        member is serving under paragraph (1)''.
    (c) Officers Detailed as Students at Medical Schools.--Subsection 
(e) of section 2004a of such title is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Appointment 
        and Treatment of Prior Active Service'' and inserting ``Service 
        on Active Duty''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (1):
    ``(1) A commissioned officer detailed under subsection (a) shall 
serve on active duty, subject to the limitations on grade specified in 
section 2114(b)(1) of this title and with the entitlement to basic pay 
as specified in section 2114(b)(2) of this title.''.

SEC. 532. AUTHORITY TO WAIVE MAXIMUM AGE LIMITATION ON ADMISSION TO THE 
              SERVICE ACADEMIES FOR CERTAIN ENLISTED MEMBERS WHO SERVED 
              IN OPERATION IRAQI FREEDOM OR OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM.

    (a) Waiver Authority.--The Secretary of the military department 
concerned may waive the maximum age limitation in section 4346(a), 
6958(a)(1), or 9346(a) of title 10, United States Code, in the case of 
any enlisted member of the Armed Forces--
            (1) who--
                    (A) becomes 23 years of age while serving on active 
                duty in the United States Central Command area of 
                operations in connection with Operation Iraqi Freedom 
                or Operation Enduring Freedom; or
                    (B) was a candidate for admission to the military 
                service academy concerned and was prevented from 
                entering such academy before July 1 of the year in 
                which the member became 23 years of age by reason of 
                service described in subparagraph (A);
            (2) who possesses an exceptional overall record that sets 
        the member apart from other candidates for admission to the 
        military service academy concerned; and
            (3) who has not passed the member's twenty-sixth birthday 
        on July 1 of the year in which the member enters the military 
        service academy concerned pursuant to such waiver.
    (b) Limitation.--The number of waivers by the Secretary of a 
military department under subsection (a) in any year may not exceed 5.

SEC. 533. ACTIVE DUTY OBLIGATION FOR MILITARY ACADEMY GRADUATES WHO 
              PARTICIPATE IN THE ARMED FORCES HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
              SCHOLARSHIP AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Military Academy Graduates.--Section 4348(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(4) That if an appointment described in paragraph (2) or 
        (3) is tendered and the cadet participates in a program under 
        section 2121 of this title, the cadet will fulfill any unserved 
        obligation incurred under this section on active duty, 
        regardless of the type of appointment held, upon completion of, 
        and in addition to, any service obligation incurred under 
        section 2123 of this title for participation in such 
        program.''.
    (b) Naval Academy Graduates.--Section 6959(a) of such title is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) That if an appointment described in paragraph (2) or 
        (3) is tendered and the midshipman participates in a program 
        under section 2121 of this title, the midshipman will fulfill 
        any unserved obligation incurred under this section on active 
        duty, regardless of the type of appointment held, upon 
        completion of, and in addition to, any service obligation 
        incurred under section 2123 of this title for participation in 
        such program.''.
    (c) Air Force Academy Graduates.--Section 9348(a) of such title is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) That if an appointment described in paragraph (2) or 
        (3) is tendered and the cadet participates in a program under 
        section 2121 of this title, the cadet will fulfill any unserved 
        obligation incurred under this section on active duty, 
        regardless of the type of appointment held, upon completion of, 
        and in addition to, any service obligation incurred under 
        section 2123 of this title for participation in such 
        program.''.

SEC. 534. PARTICIPATION OF ARMED FORCES HEALTH PROFESSIONS SCHOLARSHIP 
              AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM RECIPIENTS IN ACTIVE 
              DUTY HEALTH PROFESSION LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM.

    Section 2173(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) The person is enrolled in the Armed Forces Health 
        Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance Program under 
        subchapter I of chapter 105 of this title for a number of years 
        less than is required to complete the normal length of the 
        course of study required for the health profession 
        concerned.''.

SEC. 535. INCREASE IN NUMBER OF PRIVATE SECTOR CIVILIANS AUTHORIZED FOR 
              ADMISSION TO THE NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY.

    Section 2167(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``20 full-time student positions'' and inserting ``35 full-
time student positions''.

SEC. 536. MODIFICATION OF JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 
              MINIMUM UNIT STRENGTH.

    (a) Modification of Minimum Unit Strength.--Subsection (b)(1) of 
section 2031 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``10 percent'' and all that follows through 
        ``8th grade'' and inserting ``75, when total institutional 
        enrollment does not exceed 1,000''; and
            (2) by striking ``whichever is less'' and inserting ``if 
        the total institutional enrollment exceeds 1,000''.
    (b) Waiver Authority.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) The Secretary of the military department concerned may waive 
the minimum enrollment requirement in subsection (b)(1) if the 
Secretary determines that the waiver is in the best interests of the 
armed force concerned or is necessary to provide a fair and equitable 
geographic distribution of units.''; and
            (3) in subsections (e) and (f), as so redesignated, by 
        striking ``subsection (c)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (d)(1)''.

SEC. 537. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM AGE FOR PROSPECTIVE RESERVE OFFICERS' 
              TRAINING CORPS FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECIPIENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2107(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``31 years'' and inserting ``35 years''.
    (b) Eligibility for Members of Army Reserve and Army National 
Guard.--Section 2107a(a)(1) of such title is amended by striking ``31 
years'' and inserting ``35 years''.

SEC. 538. MODIFICATION OF EDUCATION LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Enlisted Members on Active Duty in Specified Military 
Specialties.--
            (1) Repayment of education loan repayments.--Section 2171 
        of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Except in the case of a person described in subsection (e) 
who transfers to service making the person eligible for repayment of 
loans under section 16301 of this title, a member of the armed forces 
who fails to complete the period of service required to qualify for 
loan repayment under this section shall be subject to the repayment 
provisions of section 303a(e) of title 37.''.
            (2) Additional regulations.--Subsection (f) of such section 
        is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(f)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe procedures for 
implementing this section, including standards for qualified loans and 
authorized payees and other terms and conditions for making loan 
repayments. Such regulations may provide for the payment as a lump sum 
of any loan repayment under this section due a member who dies or 
becomes disabled under a written agreement that existed at the time of 
the member's death or disability.''.
    (b) Members of Selected Reserve.--
            (1) Repayment of education loan repayments.--Section 16301 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection 
                (h); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (f) the following 
                new subsection (g):
    ``(g) Except in the case of a person described in subsection (e) 
who transfers to service making the person eligible for repayment of 
loans under section 2171 of this title, a member of the armed forces 
who fails to complete the period of service required to qualify for 
loan repayment under this section shall be subject to the repayment 
provisions of section 303a(e) of title 37.''.
            (2) Additional regulations.--Subsection (f) of such section 
        is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(f)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary may, by regulation, prescribe procedures for 
implementing this section, including standards for qualified loans and 
authorized payees and other terms and conditions for making loan 
repayments. Such regulations may provide for the payment as a lump sum 
of any loan repayment under this section due a member who dies or 
becomes disabled under a written agreement that existed at the time of 
the member's death or disability.''.

SEC. 539. ENHANCEMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE UNDERGRADUATE NURSE 
              TRAINING PROGRAM.

    (a) Clarification of Degree Covered by Program.--Subsection (a) of 
section 2016 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``a nursing degree'' and inserting ``a bachelor of science degree in 
nursing''.
    (b) Graduation Rates of Training Programs.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``in nursing'' after ``bachelor of science 
        degree''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        capacity shall be apportioned each year among the armed forces 
        to address any annual shortage of nursing accessions of each 
        armed force.''.
    (c) Location of Programs.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``a military 
        installation'' and inserting ``a large military installation''; 
        and
            (2) in the second sentence by striking ``established must--
        '' and all that follows and inserting ``established must have a 
        military treatment facility with 24-hour patient capability 
        designated as a medical center located on the installation or 
        within reasonable proximity to the installation.''.
    (d) Pilot Program.--
            (1) Implementation.--Paragraph (1) of section 525(d) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public 
        Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2287) is amended by striking ``July 1, 
        2011'' and inserting ``August 31, 2012''.
            (2) Graduation rates.--Paragraph (3) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking the ``pilot program shall achieve 
                graduate rates'' and inserting ``goal of the pilot 
                program shall be to achieve the capacity to graduate 
                students at''; and
                    (B) by striking ``nurse training program'' and 
                inserting ``nurse training programs''.

SEC. 540. AUTHORITY FOR SERVICE COMMITMENT OF RESERVISTS WHO ACCEPT 
              FELLOWSHIPS, SCHOLARSHIPS, OR GRANTS TO BE PERFORMED IN 
              THE SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 2603 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``on active duty'' and all that 
follows and inserting the following: ``as follows:
            ``(1) On active duty for a period at least three times the 
        length of the period of the education or training.
            ``(2) In the case of a member of the Selected Reserve--
                    ``(A) on active duty in accordance with paragraph 
                (1); or
                    ``(B) in the Selected Reserve for a period at least 
                five times the length of the period of the education or 
                training.''.
    (b) Technical Amendments.--Such section is further amended by 
striking ``Armed Forces'' each place it appears in subsections (a) and 
(b) and inserting ``armed forces''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to agreements entered into under section 2603(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 541. HEALTH PROFESSIONS SCHOLARSHIP AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
              PROGRAM FOR CIVILIANS.

    (a) Health Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance 
Program.--Chapter 105 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subchapter II as subchapter III; and
            (2) by inserting after subchapter I the following new 
        subchapter II:

     ``SUBCHAPTER II--HEALTH PROFESSIONS SCHOLARSHIP AND FINANCIAL 
                    ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR CIVILIANS

``Sec.
``2129. Definitions.
``2129a. Establishment.
``2129b. Eligibility for participation.
``2129c. Scholarships and financial assistance: payments.
``2129d. Recipients of financial assistance: service agreements.
``2129e. Recipients of financial assistance: employment by Department 
                            of Defense.
``2129f. Expiration of authority.
``Sec. 2129. Definitions
    ``In this subchapter:
            ``(1) The term `program' means the Department of Defense 
        Health Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance Program 
        for Civilians provided for in this subchapter.
            ``(2) The term `member of the program' means a person who 
        has been selected for participation in the Department of 
        Defense Health Professions Scholarship and Financial Assistance 
        Program for Civilians.
            ``(3) The term `course of study' means education received 
        on a full-time basis at an accredited college, university, or 
        institution in medicine, dentistry, or other health profession 
        leading to a degree related to the health professions, as 
        determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
        Defense.
            ``(4) The term `specialized training' means advanced 
        training in a health professions specialty received in an 
        accredited program that is beyond the basic education required 
        for designation as a health professional.
            ``(5) The term `healthcare occupations' includes medical, 
        dental, licensed clinical professionals (such as licensed 
        clinical social workers and clinical psychologists), and other 
        healthcare-related occupational specialties determined by the 
        Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department 
        as critical for meeting the health care needs of members of the 
        armed forces or their families for medical, behavioral, 
        occupational, or other illnesses or injuries.
``Sec. 2129a. Establishment
    ``(a) Establishment.--For the purpose of obtaining adequate numbers 
of qualified civilian employees in various healthcare occupations, the 
Secretary of each military department may, under regulations prescribed 
by the Secretary of Defense, establish and maintain under this 
subchapter a health professions scholarship and financial assistance 
program for civilians.
    ``(b) Healthcare Occupations To Be Covered by Program.--The 
Secretary of each military department shall review on a fiscal-year 
basis requirements of such military department within the various 
healthcare occupations, and shall annually publish a list of the 
healthcare occupations for which applications will be accepted by such 
military department under the program for that fiscal year.
    ``(c) Elements of Program.--The program shall consist of courses of 
study and specialized training in designated healthcare occupations, 
and include the required internships, residencies, and other service in 
designated Department of Defense medical facilities.
``Sec. 2129b. Eligibility for participation
    ``Under the program, the Secretary of a military department may 
award a scholarship in accordance with this subchapter to a person 
who--
            ``(1) is a citizen of the United States;
            ``(2) is accepted for admission to an accredited 
        institution of higher learning to pursue a course of study that 
        will lead to an undergraduate or graduate degree that would 
        qualify the person to be employed in an occupation identified 
        pursuant to section 2129a(b) of this title, or is already 
        pursuing such a course of study; and
            ``(3) enters into a service agreement with the Secretary as 
        described in section 2129d of this title.
``Sec. 2129c. Scholarships and financial assistance: payments
    ``(a) Amount.--The amount of financial assistance provided under a 
scholarship awarded to a person under this subchapter shall be an 
amount determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned 
for educational expenses, and expenses incurred by that person, 
including tuition, fees, cost of books, laboratory expenses, and 
equipment expenses, for pursuit of a course of study covered by the 
program
    ``(b) Payment Under Contract.--The Secretaries of the military 
departments may contract with accredited civilian educational 
institutions for the payment of tuition and other educational expenses 
of members of the program. Such payment to such institutions may be 
made without regard to subsections (a) and (b) of section 3324 of title 
31.
    ``(c) Monthly Stipend Authorized.--In addition to a scholarship, a 
member of the program may be provided a stipend in addition to the 
expenses in subsection (a) at a monthly rate established by the 
Secretary of Defense, but not to exceed a total of $12,000 per year. 
The maximum amount of the stipend may be increased annually by the 
Secretary of Defense, effective July 1 each year.
    ``(d) Grants for Participation in Specialized Training.--A person 
participating as a member of the program in specialized training may be 
paid a grant in addition to any stipend under subsection (c) in an 
amount not to exceed $2,500 per year. The maximum amount of the grant 
may be increased annually by the Secretary of Defense, effective July 1 
each year.
    ``(e) Recipient of Funds.--Financial assistance provided under this 
subchapter may be paid directly to the recipient or to an administering 
entity for disbursement of the funds.
    ``(f) Prohibition on Assistance for Employees.--Financial 
assistance may not be provided under this subchapter to or on behalf of 
a person who is considered to be an employee, as that term is defined 
at section 2105 of title 5.
``Sec. 2129d. Recipients of financial assistance: service agreements
    ``(a) Service Agreements.--(1) To receive financial assistance 
under the program, a person shall enter into a written agreement to 
accept and continue employment in the Department of Defense in a 
qualifying healthcare occupation for the period of obligated service 
determined under subsection (b).
    ``(2) Each service agreement under this section shall include a 
requirement that, unless sooner removed from the program, the recipient 
of the financial assistance will--
            ``(A) complete the educational phase of the program;
            ``(B) participate in an intern program within the 
        Department of Defense if selected for such participation; and
            ``(C) participate in a residency program within the 
        Department of Defense if selected for such participation.
    ``(b) Obligated Service.--For the purposes of this subchapter, the 
period of obligated service to be specified in an agreement under this 
section for a recipient of financial assistance under this subchapter 
shall be the period determined by the Secretary of Defense as being 
appropriate to obtain adequate service in exchange for such financial 
assistance. The period of the service obligation required of a 
recipient shall be continuous and shall, at a minimum, be equal to the 
amount of time for which such financial assistance was provided. The 
period of obligated service under an agreement under this section is in 
addition to any other period for which the recipient is obligated to 
serve in the civilian service of the United States.
    ``(c) Additional Terms and Conditions.--An agreement entered into 
under this section by a person pursuing an academic degree shall 
include any terms and conditions that the Secretary of Defense or the 
Secretary of the military department concerned determine necessary to 
protect the interests of the United States or to be otherwise 
appropriate for carrying out this subchapter, including flexibility in 
determining the geographic location of the position in which the period 
of obligated service will be performed.
    ``(d) Reimbursement for Period of Unserved Obligated Service.--(1) 
A member of the program under this subchapter who fails to complete the 
educational program for which financial assistance has been provided 
under this subchapter, fails to maintain satisfactory academic progress 
(as determined in accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary of Defense), or fails to carry out the terms of a service 
agreement entered into by the individual under this section shall 
reimburse to the United States an appropriate amount, as determined by 
the Secretary of the military department concerned.
    ``(2) An obligation to reimburse the United States an amount paid 
to a person as a member of the program that is imposed under paragraph 
(1) is for all purposes a debt owed to the United States.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense may waive, in whole or in part, a 
reimbursement required under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines 
that recovery would be against equity and good conscience or would be 
contrary to the best interests of the United States.
    ``(4) A discharge in bankruptcy under title 11 that is entered less 
than five years after the termination of an agreement under this 
subchapter does not discharge the person signing the agreement from a 
debt arising under the agreement or under this subchapter.
``Sec. 2129e. Recipients of financial assistance: employment by 
              Department of Defense
    ``(a) Appointment Authority.--The Secretary of Defense--
            ``(1) may, without regard to any provision of title 5 
        governing appointment of employees to positions in the 
        Department of Defense, appoint to a health professions position 
        in the Department in the excepted service a person who has 
        successfully completed an academic program for which a 
        scholarship under this subchapter was awarded and who, under 
        the terms of the agreement for such scholarship under this 
        subchapter, owes a civil service commitment to the Department 
        at the time of such appointment; and
            ``(2) may, upon satisfactory completion of two years of 
        substantially continuous service by an incumbent who was 
        appointed to an excepted service position under the authority 
        of paragraph (1), convert the appointment of such person, 
        without competition, to a career or career conditional 
        appointment in the competitive service.
    ``(b) Termination of Service Agreement.--If there is no appropriate 
position available within the Department of Defense after the end of 
the period covered by financial assistance under this subchapter, the 
service agreement between the Department and the financial assistance 
recipient concerned shall terminate with no adverse impact to the 
recipient.
``Sec. 2129f. Expiration of authority
    ``The authority to provide scholarships under this subchapter shall 
expire on September 30, 2015.''.
    (b) Technical Amendments.--
            (1) Chapter heading.--The chapter heading of chapter 105 of 
        such title is amended by striking the first two words after the 
        chapter designation.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) Table of subchapters.--The table of subchapters 
                at the beginning of chapter 105 of such title is 
                amended by striking the item relating to subchapter II 
                and inserting the following new items:

``II. Health Professions Scholarship and Financial                2129 
                            Assistance Program for 
                            Civilians.
``III. Nurse Officer Candidate Accession Program............   2130a''.
                    (B) Tables of chapters.--The tables of chapters at 
                the beginning of subtitle A, and at the beginning of 
                part III of subtitle A, of such title are each amended 
                by striking the first two words in the item relating to 
                chapter 105.

SEC. 542. ANNUAL REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GRADUATE MEDICAL 
              EDUCATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Annual Report.--Not later than April 1, 2011, and annually 
thereafter through 2015, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the status of the graduate medical 
education programs of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) An identification of each graduate medical education 
        program of the Department of Defense in effect during the 
        previous fiscal year, including for each such program, the 
        military department responsible, the location, the medical 
        specialty, the period of training required, and the number of 
        students by year.
            (2) The status of each program referred to in paragraph 
        (1), including, for each such program, an identification of the 
        fiscal year in which the last action was taken with respect to 
        each of the following:
                    (A) Initial accreditation.
                    (B) Continued accreditation.
                    (C) If applicable, probation, and the reasons for 
                probationary status.
                    (D) If applicable, withheld or withdrawn 
                accreditation, and the reasons for such action.
            (3) A discussion of trends in the graduate medical 
        education programs of the Department.
            (4) A discussion of challenges faced by such programs, and 
        a description and assessment of strategies and plans to address 
        such challenges.
            (5) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.

               Subtitle D--Defense Dependents' Education

SEC. 551. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
              AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2011 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $30,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3271; 20 U.S.C. 
7703b).
    (b) Assistance to Schools With Enrollment Changes Due to Base 
Closures, Force Structure Changes, or Force Relocations.--Of the amount 
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 pursuant to section 
301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, 
$5,000,000 shall be available only for the purpose of providing 
assistance to local educational agencies under subsection (b) of such 
section 572.
    (c) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
8013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).

SEC. 552. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES.

    Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for 
Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 
4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of 
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 
U.S.C. 7703a).

SEC. 553. AUTHORITY TO EXPAND ELIGIBILITY FOR ENROLLMENT IN DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS TO CERTAIN 
              ADDITIONAL CATEGORIES OF DEPENDENTS.

    Section 2164(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary may authorize the enrollment in an education 
program provided by the Secretary pursuant to this subsection without 
regard to the requirement in paragraph (1) with respect to residence on 
a military installation in the case of dependents of members of the 
armed forces described in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) A member of the armed forces described in this subparagraph 
is any of the following:
            ``(i) A wounded, ill, or injured member of the armed forces 
        who resides in temporary housing (regardless of whether the 
        temporary housing is on Federal property).
            ``(ii) A member of the armed forces who resides in 
        temporary housing (regardless of whether the temporary housing 
        is on Federal property) due to an ongoing base housing 
        privatization project.''.

                 Subtitle E--Leave and Related Matters

SEC. 556. LEAVE OF MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) Carryover of Accumulated Leave to Succeeding Period of Active 
Service.--Section 701 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) A member of a reserve component who accumulates leave during 
a period of active service may carry over any leave so accumulated to 
the member's next period of active service, without regard to 
separation or release from active service, if the separation or release 
is under honorable conditions. The taking of leave carried over under 
this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of this section.''.
    (b) Payment for Unused Accrued Leave.--Section 501(a) of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(4) in the case of an officer or an enlisted member of a 
        reserve component who is not serving on active duty, separation 
        or release from the reserve component under honorable 
        conditions, or death; and
            ``(5) in the case of an enlisted member of a reserve a 
        component who is not serving on active duty, termination of 
        enlistment in conjunction with the commencement of a successive 
        enlistment, or appointment as an officer.''.

SEC. 557. NON-CHARGEABLE REST AND RECUPERATION ABSENCE FOR CERTAIN 
              MEMBERS UNDERGOING EXTENDED DEPLOYMENT TO A COMBAT ZONE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 40 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 705 the following new section:
``Sec. 705a. Rest and recuperation absence: certain members undergoing 
              extended deployment to a combat zone
    ``(a) Rest and Recuperation Authorized.--Under regulations 
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary concerned may 
provide a member of the armed forces described in subsection (b) the 
benefits described in subsection (c).
    ``(b) Covered Members.--A member of the armed forces described in 
this subsection is any member who--
            ``(1) is assigned or deployed for at least 270 days in an 
        area or location--
                    ``(A) that is designated by the President as a 
                combat zone; and
                    ``(B) in which hardship duty pay is authorized to 
                be paid under section 305 of title 37; and
            ``(2) meets such other criteria as the Secretary of Defense 
        may prescribe in the regulations required by subsection (a).
    ``(c) Benefits.--The benefits described in this subsection are the 
following:
            ``(1) A period of rest and recuperation absence for not 
        more than 15 days.
            ``(2) Round-trip transportation at Government expense from 
        the area or location in which the member is serving in 
        connection with the exercise of the period of rest and 
        recuperation.
    ``(d) Construction With Other Leave.--Any benefits provided a 
member under this section are in addition to any other leave or absence 
to which the member may be entitled.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 40 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 705 the following new item:

``705a. Rest and recuperation absence: certain members undergoing 
                            extended deployment to a combat zone.''.

                  Subtitle F--Military Justice Matters

SEC. 561. REFORM OF OFFENSES RELATING TO RAPE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND 
              OTHER SEXUAL MISCONDUCT UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF 
              MILITARY JUSTICE.

    (a) Rape and Sexual Assault Generally.--Section 920 of title 10, 
United States Code (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended as follows:
            (1) Revised offense of rape.--Subsection (a) is amended to 
        read as follows:
    ``(a) Rape.--Any person subject to this chapter who commits a 
sexual act upon another person by--
            ``(1) using unlawful force against that other person;
            ``(2) using force causing or likely to cause death or 
        grievous bodily harm to any person;
            ``(3) threatening or placing that other person in fear that 
        any person will be subjected to death, grievous bodily harm, or 
        kidnapping;
            ``(4) first rendering that other person unconscious; or
            ``(5) administering to that other person by force or threat 
        of force, or without the knowledge or consent of that other 
        person, a drug, intoxicant, or other similar substance and 
        thereby substantially impairing the ability of that other 
        person to appraise or control conduct;
is guilty of rape and shall be punished as a court-martial may 
direct.''.
            (2) Repeal of provisions relating to offenses replaced by 
        new article 120b.--Subsections (b), (d), (f), (g), (i), (j), 
        and (o) are repealed.
            (3) Revised offense of sexual assault.--Subsection (c) of 
        such section is redesignated as subsection (b) and amended to 
        read as follows:
    ``(b) Sexual Assault.--Any person subject to this chapter who--
            ``(1) commits a sexual act upon another person by--
                    ``(A) threatening or placing that other person in 
                fear (other than by threatening or placing that other 
                person in fear that any person will be subjected to 
                death, grievous bodily harm, or kidnapping);
                    ``(B) causing bodily harm to that other person;
                    ``(C) making a fraudulent representation that the 
                sexual act served a professional purpose when it served 
                no professional purpose; or
                    ``(D) inducing a belief by any artifice, pretense, 
                or concealment that the person is another person;
            ``(2) commits a sexual act upon another person when the 
        person knows or reasonably should know that the other person is 
        asleep, unconscious, or otherwise unaware that the sexual act 
        is occurring; or
            ``(3) commits a sexual act upon another person when the 
        other person is incapable of consenting to the sexual act due 
        to--
                    ``(A) impairment by any drug, intoxicant, or other 
                similar substance, and that condition was known or 
                reasonably should have been known by the person; or
                    ``(B) a mental disease or defect, or physical 
                disability, and that condition was known or reasonably 
                should have been known by the person;
is guilty of sexual assault and shall be punished as a court-martial 
may direct.''.
            (4) Aggravated sexual contact.--Subsection (e) is 
        redesignated as subsection (c) and amended--
                    (A) by striking ``engages in'' and inserting 
                ``commits''; and
                    (B) by striking ``with'' and inserting ``upon''.
            (5) Abusive sexual contact.--Subsection (h) is redesignated 
        as subsection (d) and amended--
                    (A) by striking ``engages in'' and inserting 
                ``commits'';
                    (B) by striking ``with'' and inserting ``upon''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``subsection (c) (aggravated sexual 
                assault)'' and inserting ``subsection (b) (sexual 
                assault)''.
            (6) Repeal of provisions relating to offenses replaced by 
        new article 120c.--Subsections (k), (l), (m), and (n) are 
        repealed.
            (7) Proof of threat.--Subsection (p) is redesignated as 
        subsection (e) and amended--
                    (A) by striking ``the accused made'' and inserting 
                ``a person made'';
                    (B) by striking ``the accused actually'' and 
                inserting ``the person actually''; and
                    (C) by inserting before the period the following: 
                ``or had the ability to carry out the threat''.
            (8) Defenses.--Subsection (q) is redesignated as subsection 
        (f) and is amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Defenses.--An accused may raise any applicable defenses 
available under this chapter or the Rules for Court-Martial. Marriage 
is not a defense for any conduct in issue in any prosecution under this 
section.''.
            (9) Provisions relating to affirmative defenses.--
        Subsections (r) and (s) are repealed.
            (10) Definitions.--Subsection (t) is redesignated as 
        subsection (g) and amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``a hand or 
                finger'' and inserting ``any part of the body'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) Sexual contact.--(A) The term `sexual contact' 
        means--
                    ``(i) touching, or causing another person to touch, 
                either directly or through the clothing, the genitalia, 
                anus, groin, breast, inner thigh, or buttocks of any 
                person, with an intent to abuse, humiliate, or degrade 
                any person; or
                    ``(ii) any touching, or causing another person to 
                touch, either directly or through the clothing, any 
                body part of any person, if done with an intent to 
                arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person.
            ``(B) Touching may be accomplished by any part of the 
        body.'';
                    (C) by striking paragraph (4);
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4);
                    (E) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph 
                (3), transferring that paragraph so as to appear after 
                paragraph (2), and amending that paragraph, as so 
                redesignated and transferred, by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``, including any 
                nonconsensual sexual act or nonconsensual sexual 
                contact'';
                    (F) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (D), by striking the last sentence;
                    (G) by striking paragraphs (5) and (7);
                    (H) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (7);
                    (I) by inserting after paragraph (4), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (D), the following new 
                paragraphs (5) and (6):
            ``(5) Force.--The term `force' means--
                    ``(A) the use of a weapon;
                    ``(B) the use of such physical strength or violence 
                as is sufficient to overcome, restrain, or injure a 
                person; or
                    ``(C) inflicting physical harm sufficient to coerce 
                or compel submission by the victim.
            ``(6) Unlawful force.--The term `unlawful force' means an 
        act of force done without legal justification or excuse.'';
                    (J) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (H)--
                            (i) by striking ``under paragraph (3)'' and 
                        all that follows through ``contact),''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``death, grievous bodily 
                        harm, or kidnapping'' and inserting ``the 
                        wrongful action contemplated by the 
                        communication or action.'';
                    (K) by striking paragraphs (9) through (13);
                    (L) by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph 
                (8) and in that paragraph--
                            (i) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``The 
                        term'';
                            (ii) by striking ``words or overt acts 
                        indicating'' and ``sexual'' in the first 
                        sentence;
                            (iii) by striking ``accused's'' in the 
                        third sentence;
                            (iv) in the fourth sentence--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or social or 
                                sexual'' before ``relationship''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``sexual'' before 
                                ``conduct'';
                            (v) by striking ``A person cannot consent'' 
                        and all that follows through the period; and
                            (vi) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraphs:
            ``(B) A sleeping, unconscious, or incompetent person cannot 
        consent. A person cannot consent to force causing or likely to 
        cause death or grievous bodily harm or to being rendered 
        unconscious. A person cannot consent while under threat or in 
        fear or under the circumstances described in subparagraph (C) 
        or (D) of subsection (b)(1).
            ``(C) Lack of consent may be inferred based on the 
        circumstances of the offense. All the surrounding circumstances 
        are to be considered in determining whether a person gave 
        consent, or whether a person did not resist or ceased to resist 
        only because of another person's actions.''; and
                    (M) by striking paragraphs (15) and (16).
            (11) Section heading.--The heading of such section 
        (article) is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 920. Art. 120. Rape and sexual assault generally''.
    (b) Rape and Sexual Assault of a Child.--Chapter 47 of title 10, 
United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended 
by inserting after section 920a (article 120a) the following new 
section:
``Sec. 920b. Art. 120b. Rape and sexual assault of a child
    ``(a) Rape of Child.--Any person subject to this chapter who--
            ``(1) commits a sexual act upon a child who has not 
        attained the age of 12 years; or
            ``(2) commits a sexual act upon a child who has attained 
        the age of 12 years by--
                    ``(A) using force against any person;
                    ``(B) threatening or placing that child in fear;
                    ``(C) rendering that child unconscious; or
                    ``(D) administering to that child a drug, 
                intoxicant, or other similar substance;
is guilty of rape of a child and shall be punished as a court-martial 
may direct.
    ``(b) Sexual Assault of a Child.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who commits a sexual act upon a child who has attained the age 
of 12 years is guilty of sexual assault of a child and shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Sexual Abuse of a Child.--Any person subject to this chapter 
who commits a lewd act upon a child is guilty of sexual abuse of a 
child and shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(d) Age of Child.--
            ``(1) Under 12 years.--In a prosecution under this section, 
        it need not be proven that the accused knew the age of the 
        other person engaging in the sexual act or lewd act. It is not 
        a defense that the accused reasonably believed that the child 
        had attained the age of 12 years.
            ``(2) Under 16 years.--In a prosecution under this section, 
        it need not be proven that the accused knew that the other 
        person engaging in the sexual act or lewd act had not attained 
        the age of 16 years, but it is a defense in a prosecution under 
        subsection (b) (sexual assault of a child) or subsection (c) 
        (sexual abuse of a child), which the accused must prove by a 
        preponderance of the evidence, that the accused reasonably 
        believed that the child had attained the age of 16 years, if 
        the child had in fact attained at least the age of 12 years.
    ``(e) Proof of Threat.--In a prosecution under this section, in 
proving that a person made a threat, it need not be proven that the 
person actually intended to carry out the threat or had the ability to 
carry out the threat.
    ``(f) Marriage.--In a prosecution under subsection (b) (sexual 
assault of a child) or subsection (c) (sexual abuse of a child), it is 
a defense, which the accused must prove by a preponderance of the 
evidence, that the persons engaging in the sexual act or lewd act were 
at that time married to each other.
    ``(g) Consent.--Lack of consent is not an element and need not be 
proven in any prosecution under this section. A child cannot consent to 
any sexual act, lewd act, or use of force.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Sexual act and sexual contact.--The terms `sexual 
        act' and `sexual contact' have the meanings given those terms 
        in section 920(g) of this title (article 120(g)).
            ``(2) Force.--(A) The term `force' means--
                    ``(i) the use of a weapon;
                    ``(ii) the use of such physical strength or 
                violence as is sufficient to overcome, restrain, or 
                injure a child; or
                    ``(iii) inflicting physical harm.
            ``(B) In the case of a parent-child or similar 
        relationship, the use or abuse of parental or similar authority 
        is sufficient to constitute the use of force.
            ``(3) Threatening or placing that child in fear.--The term 
        `threatening or placing that child in fear' means a 
        communication or action that is of sufficient consequence to 
        cause the child to fear that non-compliance will result in the 
        child or another person being subjected to the action 
        contemplated by the communication or action.
            ``(4) Child.--The term `child' means any person who has not 
        attained the age of 16 years.
            ``(5) Lewd act.--The term `lewd act' means--
                    ``(A) any sexual contact with a child;
                    ``(B) intentionally exposing one's genitalia, anus, 
                buttocks, or female areola or nipple to a child by any 
                means, including via any communication technology, with 
                an intent to abuse, humiliate, or degrade any person, 
                or to arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any 
                person;
                    ``(C) intentionally communicating indecent language 
                to a child by any means, including via any 
                communication technology, with an intent to abuse, 
                humiliate, or degrade any person, or to arouse or 
                gratify the sexual desire of any person; or
                    ``(D) any indecent conduct, intentionally done with 
                or in the presence of a child, including via any 
                communication technology, that amounts to a form of 
                immorality relating to sexual impurity which is grossly 
                vulgar, obscene, and repugnant to common propriety, and 
                tends to excite sexual desire or deprave morals with 
                respect to sexual relations.''.
    (c) Other Sexual Misconduct.--Such chapter (the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice) is further amended by inserting after section 920b 
(article 120b), as added by subsection (b), the following new section
``Sec. 920c. Art. 120c. Other sexual misconduct
    ``(a) Indecent Viewing, Visual Recording, or Broadcasting.--Any 
person subject to this chapter who, without legal justification or 
lawful authorization--
            ``(1) knowingly and wrongfully views the private area of 
        another person, without that other person's consent and under 
        circumstances in which that other person has a reasonable 
        expectation of privacy;
            ``(2) knowingly photographs, videotapes, films, or records 
        by any means, the private area of another person, without that 
        other person's consent and under circumstances in which that 
        other person has a reasonable expectation of privacy; or
            ``(3) knowingly broadcasts or distributes any such 
        recording that the person knew or reasonably should have known 
        was made under the circumstances proscribed in paragraphs (1) 
        and (2);
is guilty of an offense under this section and shall be punished as a 
court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Forcible Pandering.--Any person subject to this chapter who 
compels another person to engage in an act of prostitution with any 
person is guilty of forcible pandering and shall be punished as a 
court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Indecent Exposure.--Any person subject to this chapter who 
intentionally exposes, in an indecent manner, the genitalia, anus, 
buttocks, or female areola or nipple is guilty of indecent exposure and 
shall by punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Act of prostitution.--The term `act of prostitution' 
        means a sexual act or sexual contact (as defined in section 
        920(g) of this title (article 120(g))) for the purpose of 
        receiving money or other compensation.
            ``(2) Private area.--The term `private area' means the 
        naked or underwear-clad genitalia, anus, buttocks, or female 
        areola or nipple.
            ``(3) Reasonable expectation of privacy.--The term `under 
        circumstances in which that other person has a reasonable 
        expectation of privacy' means--
                    ``(A) circumstances in which a reasonable person 
                would believe that he or she could disrobe in privacy, 
                without being concerned that an image of a private area 
                of the person was being captured; or
                    ``(B) circumstances in which a reasonable person 
                would believe that a private area of the person would 
                not be visible to the public.
            ``(4) Broadcast.--The term `broadcast' means to 
        electronically transmit a visual image with the intent that it 
        be viewed by a person or persons.
            ``(5) Distribute.--The term `distribute' means to deliver 
        to the actual or constructive possession of another, including 
        transmission by electronic means.
            ``(6) Indecent manner.--The term `indecent manner' means 
        conduct that amounts to a form of immorality relating to sexual 
        impurity which is grossly vulgar, obscene, and repugnant to 
        common propriety, and tends to excite sexual desire or deprave 
        morals with respect to sexual relations.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Such chapter (the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice) is further amended as follows:
            (1) Statute of limitations.--Section 843(b)(2)(B) (article 
        43(b)(2)(B)) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``section 920 of 
                this title (article 120)'' and inserting ``section 920, 
                920a, 920b, or 920c of this title (article 120, 120a, 
                120b, or 120c)''; and
                    (B) in clause (v)--
                            (i) by striking ``; indecent assault;'' and 
                        inserting a comma; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or liberties with a 
                        child''.
            (2) Murder.--Section 918(a)(4) (article 118(a)(4)) is 
        amended by striking ``aggravated sexual assault,'' and all that 
        follows through ``with a child,'' and inserting ``sexual 
        assault, sexual assault of a child, aggravated sexual contact, 
        sexual abuse of a child,''.
    (e) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter X of such chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is 
amended by striking the items relating to sections 920 and 920a 
(articles 120 and 120a) and inserting the following:

``920. Art. 120. Rape and sexual assault generally.
``920a. Art. 120a. Stalking.
``920b. Art. 120b. Rape and sexual assault of a child.
``920c. Art. 120c. Other sexual misconduct.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to offenses committed on or after such date.

SEC. 562. ENHANCED AUTHORITY TO PUNISH CONTEMPT IN MILITARY JUSTICE 
              PROCEEDINGS.

    (a) In General.--The text of section 848 of title 10, United States 
Code (article 48 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority To Punish Contempt.--A military judge detailed to 
any court-martial, a court of inquiry, the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Armed Forces, a military Court of Criminal Appeals, a 
provost court, or military commission may punish for contempt any 
person who--
            ``(1) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in its 
        presence;
            ``(2) disturbs its proceedings by any riot or disorder; or
            ``(3) willfully disobeys the lawful writ, process, order, 
        rule, decree, or command of same.
    ``(b) Punishment.--The punishment for contempt under subsection (a) 
may not exceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000, or both.
    ``(c) Inapplicability to Military Commissions Under Chapter 47A.--
This section does not apply to a military commission established under 
chapter 47A of this title.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
with respect to acts of contempt described in section 848(a) of title 
10, United States Code (article 48(a) of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), as amended by subsection (a), that are committed after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 563. AUTHORITY TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE PRIOR 
              TO TRIAL IN MILITARY JUSTICE CASES.

    (a) Subpoena Duces Tecum.--Section 847 of title 10, United States 
Code (article 47 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``board;'' and 
        inserting ``board, or has been duly issued a subpoena duces 
        tecum for an investigation (including an investigation pursuant 
        to section 832(b) of this title (article 32(b))); and''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``or board,'' and 
        inserting ``board, trial counsel, or convening authority,''.
    (b) Repeal of Obsolete Provisions Relating to Fees and Mileage 
Payable to Witnesses.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (2); and
            (2) by striking subsection (d).
    (c) Technical Amendments.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
further amended by striking ``subpenaed'' in paragraphs (1) and (2) (as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1)(B)) and inserting ``subpoenaed''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to subpoenas issued after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

                   Subtitle G--Awards and Decorations

SEC. 566. COLD WAR SERVICE MEDAL.

    (a) Medal Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may authorize the 
issuance by the Secretaries concerned of a service medal, to be known 
as the ``Cold War Service Medal'', to persons eligible to receive the 
medal under the regulations under subsection (b).
    (b) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The issuance of a Cold War Service Medal 
        under this section shall be subject to regulations prescribed 
        by Secretary of Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The regulations shall--
                    (A) provide for an appropriate design for the Cold 
                War Service Medal; and
                    (B) specify the persons eligible to receive the 
                medal.
    (c) Secretaries Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretaries concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 567. AUTHORITY FOR AWARD OF BRONZE STAR MEDAL TO MEMBERS OF 
              MILITARY FORCES OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN NATIONS.

    (a) Authority.--Section 1133 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``awarded to a member'' and inserting 
        ``awarded to the following:
            ``(1) A member''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) A member of the military forces of a friendly foreign 
        nation whose action leading to a recommendation for award of 
        the decoration occurred in a geographic area for which members 
        of the armed forces are authorized special pay under section 
        310 of title 37.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading for such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1133. Bronze star: limitation to members receiving imminent 
              danger pay and members of military forces of friendly 
              foreign nations in imminent-danger-pay areas''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The item relating to such section 
        in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 57 of such 
        title is amended to read as follows:

``1133. Bronze star: limitation to members receiving imminent danger 
                            pay and members of military forces of 
                            friendly foreign nations in imminent-
                            danger-pay areas.''.

SEC. 568. AUTHORIZATION AND REQUEST FOR AWARD OF DISTINGUISHED-SERVICE 
              CROSS TO SHINYEI MATAYOSHI FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING WORLD 
              WAR II.

    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons 
who served in the Armed Forces, the Secretary of the Army is authorized 
and requested to award the Distinguished-Service Cross under section 
3742 of that title to Shinyei Matayoshi for the acts of valor referred 
to in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of the Tech Sergeant Shinyei Matayoshi 
on April 7, 1945, as a member of Company G, 2d Battalion, 442d 
Regimental Combat Team during World War II.

SEC. 569. AUTHORIZATION AND REQUEST FOR AWARD OF DISTINGUISHED-SERVICE 
              CROSS TO JAY C. COPLEY FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING THE 
              VIETNAM WAR.

    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons 
who served in the Armed Forces, the Secretary of the Army is authorized 
and requested to award the Distinguished-Service Cross under section 
3742 of such title to former Captain Jay C. Copley of the United States 
Army for the acts of valor during the Vietnam War described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of then Captain Jay C. Copley on May 5, 
1968, as commander of Company C of the 1st Battalion, 50th Infantry, 
attached to the 173d Airborne Brigade during an engagement with a 
regimental-size enemy force in Bin Dinh Province, South Vietnam.

                  Subtitle H--Wounded Warrior Matters

SEC. 571. DISPOSITION OF MEMBERS FOUND TO BE FIT FOR DUTY WHO ARE NOT 
              SUITABLE FOR DEPLOYMENT OR WORLDWIDE ASSIGNMENT FOR 
              MEDICAL REASONS.

    (a) Disposition.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 61 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 1214 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 1214a. Members determined fit for duty in Physical Evaluation 
              Board evaluation: prohibition on involuntary 
              administrative separation due to unsuitability based on 
              medical conditions considered in evaluation
    ``(a) Disposition.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
Secretary of the military department concerned may not authorize the 
involuntary administrative separation of a member described in 
subsection (b) based on a determination that the member is unsuitable 
for deployment or worldwide assignment based on the same medical 
condition of the member considered by a Physical Evaluation Board (PEB) 
during the evaluation of the member described in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Covered Members.--A member described in this subsection is 
any member of the armed forces who has been determined by a Physical 
Evaluation Board pursuant to a physical evaluation by the board to be 
fit for duty.
    ``(c) Reevaluation.--(1) The Secretary of the military department 
concerned may direct the Physical Evaluation Board to assign contingent 
disability ratings in connection with a funding of fit for duty or 
otherwise provide for the reevaluation by a Physical Evaluation Board 
of any member described in subsection (b) if the Secretary has reason 
to believe that a medical condition of the member considered by the 
Physical Evaluation Board during the evaluation of the member described 
in that subsection renders the member unsuitable for continued military 
service based on the medical condition.
    ``(2) A member determined pursuant to reevaluation under paragraph 
(1) to be unfit to perform the duties of the member's office, grade, 
rank, or rating may be retired or separated for physical disability 
under this chapter.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 61 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 1214 the following new item:

``1214a. Members determined fit for duty in Physical Evaluation Board 
                            evaluation: prohibition on involuntary 
                            administrative separation due to 
                            unsuitability based on medical conditions 
                            considered in evaluation.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to members evaluated for fitness for duty by Physical 
Evaluation Boards on or after that date.

SEC. 572. AUTHORITY TO EXPEDITE BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS FOR HIRING OF 
              WOUNDED WARRIORS AND SPOUSES BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              AND DEFENSE CONTRACTORS.

    Section 1564 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``the Secretaries of the 
        military departments and the heads of Defense Agencies'' and 
        inserting ``the Secretaries of the military departments, the 
        heads of Defense Agencies, and the Director of the Office of 
        Personnel Management, as appropriate,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Expedited Processing of Security Clearances for Injured 
Members and Spouses.--(1) When a covered person declares in writing the 
intent to apply for a position as a Department of Defense employee or 
contractor, or a position with a Department of Defense contractor, for 
which a security clearance is required, the Secretary may conduct or, 
as appropriate, request the conduct of any background investigation 
required for the granting of that security clearance for that person in 
advance of the selection of that person for that position (and 
notwithstanding that that person has not been selected for the position 
at the time of the investigation).
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, a covered person is any of 
the following:
            ``(A) A member of the armed forces who is expected to be 
        retired or separated under chapter 61 of this title.
            ``(B) The spouse of a member of the armed forces described 
        in subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) The surviving spouse of a member of the armed forces 
        who dies as a result of a wound, injuries, or illness incurred 
        or aggravated in the line of duty (as determined by the 
        Secretary concerned).
    ``(3) When the Secretary initiates or requests a background 
investigation under this subsection with respect to a person who at 
that time is a covered person by reason of subparagraph (A) or (B) of 
paragraph (2), the investigation may be completed even if the person 
(or the spouse of the person, as the case may be) is retired or 
separated under chapter 61 of this title before the investigation is 
completed.''.

             Subtitle I--Military Family Readiness Matters

SEC. 581. ADDITIONAL MEMBERS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY FAMILY 
              READINESS COUNCIL.

    (a) Addition of Spouse of General or Admiral.--Paragraph (1) of 
section 1781a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting before the period at the end of subparagraph (D) the 
following: ``, and one individual appointed by the Secretary who is the 
spouse of an officer serving in the grade of general or admiral''.
    (b) Addition of Director of Office of Community Support for 
Military Families With Special Needs.--Such paragraph is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) The Director of the Office of Community Support for 
        Military Families With Special Needs.''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Subparagraph (E) of such paragraph is 
amended by striking ``the senior'' and all that follows through 
``member'' and inserting ``the senior enlisted advisor, or the spouse 
of a senior enlisted member,''.

SEC. 582. ENHANCEMENT OF COMMUNITY SUPPORT FOR MILITARY FAMILIES WITH 
              SPECIAL NEEDS.

    (a) Additional Responsibility for Office of Community Support for 
Military Families With Special Needs.--Section 1781c(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
        paragraph (7):
            ``(7) To conduct periodic reviews of best practices in the 
        United States in the provision of medical and educational 
        services for children with special needs''.
    (b) Enhancement of Support.--Section 563 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2304) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(c) Military Department Support for Local Centers to Assist 
Military Children With Special Needs.--Each Secretary of a military 
department may establish or support centers on or in the vicinity of 
military installations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to 
coordinate and provide medical and educational services for children 
with special needs of members of the Armed Forces who are assigned to 
such installations.
    ``(d) Advisory Panel on Community Support for Military Families 
With Special Needs.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2011, the Secretary of Defense shall establish an 
        advisory panel on community support for military families with 
        special needs.
            ``(2) Members.--The advisory panel shall consist of seven 
        individuals who are a member of a military family with special 
        needs, who shall be appointed by the Secretary for purposes of 
        this subsection.
            ``(3) Duties.--The advisory panel shall--
                    ``(A) provide informed advice to the Director of 
                the Office of Community Support for Military Families 
                With Special Needs on the implementation of the policy 
                required by subsection (e) of section 1781c of title 
                10, United States Code, and on the discharge of the 
                programs required by subsection (f) of such section;
                    ``(B) assess and provide information to the 
                Director on services and support for children with 
                special needs that is available from other departments 
                and agencies of the Federal Government and from State 
                and local governments; and
                    ``(C) otherwise advise and assist the Director in 
                the discharge of the duties of the Office of Community 
                Support for Military Families With Special Needs in 
                such manner as the Secretary and the Director jointly 
                determine appropriate.
            ``(4) Meetings.--The Director shall meet with the advisory 
        panel at such times, and with such frequency, as the Director 
        considers appropriate. The Director shall meet with the panel 
        at least once each year. The Director may meet with the panel 
        through teleconferencing or by other electronic means.''.

SEC. 583. PILOT PROGRAM ON SCHOLARSHIPS FOR MILITARY DEPENDENT CHILDREN 
              WITH SPECIAL EDUCATION NEEDS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        conjunction with the Secretaries of the military departments, 
        carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of awarding scholarships to military children with 
        special education needs described in subsection (b) in order to 
        cover the costs of such children in attending a school 
        described in subsection (c) for the purpose of ensuring 
        military children with special education needs a free 
        appropriate public education that emphasizes special education 
        and related services designed to meet their unique needs and 
        prepare them for further education, employment and independent 
        living. Such scholarships shall be known as ``academic 
        opportunity scholarships''.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the pilot program shall be 
        as follows:
                    (A) To identify and assess obstacles faced by 
                military families with children with special education 
                needs in obtaining a free appropriate public education 
                to address such needs.
                    (B) To develop options for military children with 
                special education needs to attend public or private 
                schools through scholarships.
                    (C) To identify and assess evidence-based research 
                and best practices for providing special education and 
                related services (as those terms are defined in section 
                602 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
                (20 U.S.C. 1401)) for military children with special 
                education needs.
                    (D) To assess timeliness in obtaining special 
                education and related services described in 
                subparagraph (C).
                    (E) To identify and document improvements in 
                academic performance of military children with special 
                education needs as a result of the scholarships under 
                the pilot program.
                    (F) To determine and document the cost associated 
                with obtaining special education and related services 
                described in subparagraph (C) through such 
                scholarships.
            (3) Criteria.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the 
        pilot program based on uniform criteria established by the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Education or 
        the appropriate State government agency.
            (4) Commencement.--The Secretary of Defense shall commence 
        carrying out the pilot program beginning with the 2011-2012 
        academic year.
    (b) Covered Military Dependent Children.--A military dependent 
child described in this subsection is a child who--
            (1) is a dependent of a member of the Armed Forces;
            (2) is a member of a family enrolled in the Exceptional 
        Family Member program administered by the Secretary of the 
        military department concerned;
            (3) is a child with a disability under section 602 of the 
        Individuals with Disabilities Education Act; and
            (4) is covered by a current individualized education 
        program developed and approved in accordance with section 614 
        of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
        1414) or has been identified as needing special education and 
        related services.
    (c) Covered Schools.--A school described in this subsection is any 
elementary or secondary school as follows:
            (1) A private elementary school or secondary school.
            (2) A public school in a local educational agency or 
        location other than the local educational agency or location, 
        as the case may be, in which the military dependent child 
        concerned resides.
            (3) A public charter school in a local educational agency 
        or location other than the local educational agency or 
        location, as the case may be, in which the military dependent 
        child concerned resides.
    (d) Amount, Payment, and Use of Scholarship.--
            (1) Amount.--The amount of the scholarship awarded a 
        military dependent child under the pilot program for an 
        academic year may not exceed the lesser of--
                    (A) the amount required for such academic year for 
                the payment of tuition, fees, transportation, and other 
                expenses in connection with attendance at a school 
                described in subsection (c) for the purpose specified 
                in subsection (a); or
                    (B) $7,500.
            (2) Payment.--Payment of the amount of a scholarship 
        awarded a military dependent child shall be made to the parent 
        or guardian of the child for an academic year.
            (3) Use.--Subject to regulations prescribed by the 
        Secretary of Defense for purposes of the pilot program, the 
        amount of the scholarship awarded a military dependent child 
        shall be utilized for the payment of tuition, fees, 
        transportation, and other expenses in connection with 
        attendance at a school described in subsection (c) for the 
        purpose specified in subsection (a).
    (e) Evaluation of Performance of Recipient Military Dependent 
Children.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
        evaluation of the performance of military dependent children 
        awarded scholarships under the pilot program. The evaluation 
        shall address the following:
                    (A) The progress made by military dependent 
                children awarded scholarships in academic and social 
                performance.
                    (B) The success of the scholarships in expanding 
                choice in education and related services for military 
                dependent children described in subsection (b).
                    (C) The success of the scholarships in ensuring 
                timely access of military dependent children described 
                in subsection (b) to special education and related 
                services required under their individualized education 
                programs.
                    (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Completion.--The evaluation required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be completed not later than December 31, 2015.
    (f) Options for Improvement of Educational Opportunities for 
Military Children With Special Education Needs.--
            (1) Development of options.--The Secretary of the Defense 
        shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, develop 
        a variety of options for military families with children with 
        special education needs to enhance the benefits available to 
        such families and children under the Individuals with 
        Disabilities Education Act and better assist such families in 
        meeting such needs.
            (2) Actions.--In developing actions under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretaries shall consider the following:
                    (A) The feasibility of establishing an 
                individualized education program for military children 
                with special education needs that is applicable across 
                jurisdictions of local educational agencies in order to 
                achieve reciprocity among States in acknowledging such 
                programs.
                    (B) Means of improving oversight and compliance 
                with the provisions of section 614 of the Individuals 
                with Disabilities Education Act that require local 
                educational agencies to support an existing 
                individualized education program for a military child 
                with special education needs who is relocating to 
                another State pursuant to the permanent change of 
                station of a military parent until an individualized 
                education program is developed and approved for such 
                child in the State to which the child relocates.
                    (C) The feasibility of establishing an expedited 
                process for resolution of complaints by military 
                parents with a child with special education needs about 
                lack of access to education and related services 
                otherwise specified in the individualized education 
                program of such child.
                    (D) The feasibility of permitting the Department of 
                Defense to contact the State to which a military family 
                with a child with special education needs will relocate 
                pursuant to a permanent change of station when the 
                orders for such change of station are issued, but 
                before the family takes residence in such State, for 
                the purpose of commencing preparation for education and 
                related services specified in the individualized 
                education program of such child.
                    (E) The feasibility of establishing a system within 
                the Department of Defense to document complaints by 
                military parents regarding access to free and 
                appropriate public education for their children with 
                special education needs
                    (F) Means to strengthen the monitoring and 
                oversight of education and related services for 
                military children with special education needs under 
                the Interstate Compact on Educational Opportunities for 
                Military Children.
                    (G) Such other matters as the Secretaries jointly 
                consider appropriate.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1) Report on improvements of educational opportunities.--
        Not later than September 30, 2012, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall submit to Congress a report setting forth the options 
        developed under subsection (f). The report shall include--
                    (A) a description of any options developed; and
                    (B) recommendations for such legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary of Defense and 
                the Secretary of Education jointly consider appropriate 
                to implement such options.
            (2) Report on implementation of pilot program.--Not later 
        than September 30, 2011, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
        to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives a report setting forth the plans of the 
        Secretary for the award of scholarships under the pilot 
        program, including any regulations prescribed for purposes of 
        subsection (d)(3).
            (3) Final report on pilot program.--Not later than 
        September 30, 2016, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the scholarships awarded under the 
        pilot program. The report shall include--
                    (A) a description of the scholarships awarded under 
                the pilot program, including the number and amount of 
                scholarships by school year;
                    (B) the results of the evaluation required by 
                subsection (e); and
                    (C) such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (h) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Defense for a fiscal year for operation and maintenance, 
up to $5,000,000 may be available in such fiscal year to carry out the 
pilot program.
    (i) Sunset.--The pilot program shall expire on September 30, 2016. 
No scholarship may be awarded under the pilot program for an academic 
year that begins on or after that date.

SEC. 584. REPORTS ON CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
              FOR CHILD CARE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than six months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every two years thereafter, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on Department 
of Defense child development centers and financial assistance for child 
care provided by the Department of Defense off-installation to members 
of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following, current as of the date of such report:
            (1) The number of child development centers currently 
        located on military installations.
            (2) The number of dependents of members of the Armed Forces 
        utilizing such child development centers.
            (3) The number of dependents of members of the Armed Forces 
        that are unable to utilize such child development centers due 
        to capacity limitations.
            (4) The types of financial assistance available for child 
        care provided by the Department of Defense off-installation to 
        members of the Armed Forces (including eligible members of the 
        reserve components).
            (5) The extent to which members of the Armed Forces are 
        utilizing such financial assistance for child care off-
        installation.
            (6) The methods by which the Department of Defense reaches 
        out to eligible military families to increase awareness of the 
        availability of such financial assistance.
            (7) The formulas used to calculate the amount of such 
        financial assistance provided to members of the Armed Forces.
            (8) The funding available for such financial assistance in 
        the Department of Defense and in the military departments.
            (9) The barriers to access, if any, to such financial 
        assistance faced by members of the Armed Forces, including 
        whether standards and criteria of the Department of Defense for 
        child care off-installation may affect access to child care.
            (10) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate 
        in connection with such report, including with respect to the 
        enhancement of access to Department of Defense child care 
        development centers and financial assistance for child care 
        off-installation for members of the Armed Forces.

                       Subtitle J--Other Matters

SEC. 591. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY CONCERNING HOMOSEXUALITY IN THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Comprehensive Review on the Implementation of a Repeal of 10 
U.S.C. Sec.  654.--
            (1) In general.--On March 2, 2010, the Secretary of Defense 
        issued a memorandum directing the Comprehensive Review on the 
        Implementation of a Repeal of 10 U.S.C. Sec.  654 (section 654 
        of title 10, United States Code).
            (2) Objectives and scope of review.--The Terms of Reference 
        accompanying the Secretary's memorandum established the 
        following objectives and scope of the ordered review:
                    (A) Determine any impacts to military readiness, 
                military effectiveness and unit cohesion, recruiting/
                retention, and family readiness that may result from 
                repeal of the law and recommend any actions that should 
                be taken in light of such impacts.
                    (B) Determine leadership, guidance, and training on 
                standards of conduct and new policies.
                    (C) Determine appropriate changes to existing 
                policies and regulations, including but not limited to 
                issues regarding personnel management, leadership and 
                training, facilities, investigations, and benefits.
                    (D) Recommend appropriate changes (if any) to the 
                Uniform Code of Military Justice.
                    (E) Monitor and evaluate existing legislative 
                proposals to repeal 10 U.S.C. Sec.  654 and proposals 
                that may be introduced in the Congress during the 
                period of the review.
                    (F) Assure appropriate ways to monitor the 
                workforce climate and military effectiveness that 
                support successful follow-through on implementation.
                    (G) Evaluate the issues raised in ongoing 
                litigation involving 10 U.S.C. Sec.  654.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (f) shall 
take effect 60 days after the date on which the last of the following 
occurs:
            (1) The Secretary of Defense has received the report 
        required by the memorandum of the Secretary referred to in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) The President transmits to the congressional defense 
        committees a written certification, signed by the President, 
        the Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
        of Staff, stating each of the following:
                    (A) That the President, the Secretary of Defense, 
                and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have 
                considered the recommendations contained in the report 
                and the report's proposed plan of action.
                    (B) That the Department of Defense has prepared the 
                necessary policies and regulations to exercise the 
                discretion provided by the amendments made by 
                subsection (f).
                    (C) That the implementation of necessary policies 
                and regulations pursuant to the discretion provided by 
                the amendments made by subsection (f) is consistent 
                with the standards of military readiness, military 
                effectiveness, unit cohesion, and recruiting and 
                retention of the Armed Forces.
    (c) No Immediate Effect on Current Policy.--Section 654 of title 
10, United States Code, shall remain in effect until such time that all 
of the requirements and certifications required by subsection (b) are 
met. If these requirements and certifications are not met, section 654 
of title 10, United States Code, shall remain in effect.
    (d) Benefits.--Nothing in this section, or the amendments made by 
this section, shall be construed to require the furnishing of benefits 
in violation of section 7 of title 1, United States Code (relating to 
the definitions of ``marriage'' and ``spouse'' and referred to as the 
``Defense of Marriage Act'').
    (e) No Private Cause of Action.--Nothing in this section, or the 
amendments made by this section, shall be construed to create a private 
cause of action.
    (f) Treatment of 1993 Policy.--
            (1) Title 10.--Upon the effective date established by 
        subsection (b), chapter 37 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking section 654; and
                    (B) in the table of sections at the beginning of 
                such chapter, by striking the item relating to section 
                654.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Upon the effective date 
        established by subsection (b), section 571 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (10 U.S.C. 654 
        note) is amended by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d).

SEC. 592. RECRUITMENT AND ENLISTMENT OF CHARTER SCHOOL GRADUATES IN THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Policy on Recruitment and Enlistment.--
            (1) Policy required.--Not later than June 1, 2011, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall prescribe a policy on the 
        recruitment and enlistment in the Armed Forces of graduates of 
        charter schools.
            (2) Uniformity across the armed forces.--The policy 
        required by paragraph (1) shall apply uniformly across the 
        Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) Means for identifying individuals who are graduates of 
        charter schools as high school graduates for purposes of 
        recruitment and enlistment in the Armed Forces.
            (2) Criteria for the designation of a charter school as a 
        so-called ``Tier 1 school'', which designation shall ensure 
        that charter schools that provide an education equal to or 
        better than the education provided by a secondary school are 
        treated as the equivalent of high schools for all purposes of 
        recruitment and enlistment in the Armed Forces.
            (3) A communication plan to ensure that the policy is 
        understood by recruiting officials of all the Armed Forces, 
        including field recruiters at the lowest level of command.
            (4) A formal procedure, including an appeal process, for 
        States, local educational agencies, charter school 
        associations, and individual charter schools to request and 
        obtain designation as so-called ``Tier 1'' schools under 
        Department of Defense regulations.

SEC. 593. UPDATED TERMINOLOGY FOR THE ARMY MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS.

    Section 3068(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Pharmacy, Supply, 
        and Administration'' and inserting ``Administrative Health 
        Services'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``Sanitary 
        Engineering'' and inserting ``Preventive Medicine Sciences''; 
        and
            (3) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``Optometry'' and 
        inserting ``Clinical Health Sciences''.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

SEC. 601. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR INCREASE IN BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR 
              HOUSING FOR AREAS SUBJECT TO MAJOR DISASTER OR 
              INSTALLATIONS EXPERIENCING SUDDEN INCREASE IN PERSONNEL.

    Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2009'' and inserting ``December 31, 2012''.

SEC. 602. REPEAL OF MANDATORY HIGH-DEPLOYMENT ALLOWANCE.

    (a) Repeal of Authority for Payment of High-deployment Allowance.--
Section 436 of title 37, United States Code, is repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 436.

SEC. 603. INELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN FEDERAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES FOR 
              INCOME REPLACEMENT PAYMENTS.

    (a) Ineligibility for Payment.--Section 910(b) of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(3) A civilian employee of the Federal Government is not entitled 
to a payment under this section for any period during which the 
employee is performing active duty service that is covered by section 
5538 of title 5, or a similar benefit under another authority.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to payment for months beginning on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 604. REPORT ON COSTS INCURRED BY MEMBERS UNDERGOING PERMANENT 
              CHANGE OF DUTY STATION IN EXCESS OF ALLOWANCES.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the expenses incurred by 
members of the Armed Forces ordered to make a change of permanent 
station that are in excess of the allowances payable for expenses of 
permanent change of station.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the number of members of the Armed 
        Forces who typically transport a second privately-owned vehicle 
        to or from a non-foreign overseas location (including Alaska 
        and Hawaii), and to or from a foreign overseas location, during 
        a permanent change of station.
            (2) An assessment of the availability for members of the 
        Armed Forces undergoing a permanent change of station of 
        affordable privately-owned vehicles at non-foreign overseas 
        locations, and at foreign overseas locations, including 
        availability through sales between members of the Armed Forces.
            (3) A description of the expenses typically incurred by 
        members of the Armed Forces with dependents in transporting a 
        second privately-owned vehicle to or from a non-foreign 
        overseas location (including Alaska and Hawaii), and to or from 
        a foreign overseas location, during a permanent change of 
        station.
            (4) A description of the expenses typically incurred by 
        members of the Armed Forces when operating a privately-owned 
        vehicle while traveling to the new permanent duty station 
        during a permanent change of station.
            (5) The average cost incurred by a member of the Armed 
        Forces ordered to make a change of permanent station for travel 
        to the new permanent duty station to obtain a residence.
            (6) Such recommendations for legislative action as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate in light of the findings of the 
        report to better address the costs incurred by members of the 
        Armed Forces in undergoing a permanent change of station.

SEC. 605. REPORT ON BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING FOR PERSONNEL ASSIGNED 
              TO SEA DUTY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than July 1, 2011, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing the following:
            (1) A review of the standards used to determine the monthly 
        rates of basic allowance for housing for personnel assigned to 
        sea duty (under section 403 of title 37, United States Code).
            (2) A review of the legislative framework and policies 
        applicable to eligibility and levels of compensation for single 
        and married personnel, with and without dependents, who are 
        assigned to sea duty.
            (3) Any recommendation for modifications of title 37, 
        United States Code, relating to basic allowance for housing for 
        personnel who are assigned to sea duty that the Secretary 
        considers appropriate, including an estimate of the cost of 
        each modification.
    (b) Elements of Reviews.--In conducting the reviews for purposes of 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider whether existing law, 
policies, and housing standards are suitable in terms of the following:
            (1) The cost and availability of housing ashore for 
        personnel assigned to sea duty.
            (2) The pay and allowances (other than basic allowance for 
        housing) payable to personnel who are assigned to sea duty, 
        including basic pay, career sea pay, and the family separation 
        allowance.
            (3) The comparability in levels of compensation for single 
        and married personnel, with and without dependents, who are 
        assigned to sea duty.
            (4) The provision of appropriate quality of life and 
        retention incentives for members in all grades who are assigned 
        to sea duty.
            (5) The provision of appropriate recognition and motivation 
        for promotion to higher military grades of personnel who are 
        assigned to sea duty.
            (6) Budgetary constraints and rising personnel costs.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES FOR RESERVE FORCES.

    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve 
        reenlistment bonus.
            (2) Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve 
        affiliation or enlistment bonus.
            (3) Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted 
        members assigned to certain high-priority units.
            (4) Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve 
        enlistment bonus for persons without prior service.
            (5) Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment 
        and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
            (6) Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve 
        enlistment and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior 
        service.
            (7) Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments 
        for reserve component members experiencing extended and 
        frequent mobilization for active duty service.

SEC. 612. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.

    (a) Title 10 Authorities.--The following sections of title 10, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
        candidate accession program.
            (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
        loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
        Selected Reserve.
    (b) Title 37 Authorities.--The following sections of title 37, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention 
        bonuses for psychologists.
            (2) Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
        registered nurses.
            (3) Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay 
        for nurse anesthetists.
            (4) Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected 
        Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime 
        specialties.
            (5) Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
        dental officers.
            (6) Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for 
        pharmacy officers.
            (7) Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for 
        medical officers in critically short wartime specialties.
            (8) Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental 
        specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.

SEC. 613. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY AND BONUS AUTHORITIES FOR 
              NUCLEAR OFFICERS.

    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-
        qualified officers extending period of active service.
            (2) Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession 
        bonus.
            (3) Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual 
        incentive bonus.

SEC. 614. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 37 
              CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND BONUS 
              AUTHORITIES.

    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
        enlisted members.
            (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
        officers.
            (3) Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for nuclear officers.
            (4) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
        pay and bonus authorities for officers.
            (5) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for officers in health professions.
            (6) Section 351(i), relating to hazardous duty pay.
            (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
        duty pay.
            (8) Section 353(j), relating to skill incentive pay or 
        proficiency bonus.
            (9) Section 355(i), relating to retention incentives for 
        members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
        high priority units.

SEC. 615. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PAYMENT OF 
              OTHER TITLE 37 BONUSES AND SPECIAL PAYS.

    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention 
        bonus.
            (2) Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
            (3) Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for 
        active members.
            (4) Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
            (5) Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new 
        officers in critical skills.
            (6) Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for 
        conversion to military occupational specialty to ease personnel 
        shortage.
            (7) Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for 
        transfer between Armed Forces.
            (8) Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer 
        candidates.

SEC. 616. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PAYMENT OF 
              REFERRAL BONUSES.

    The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting ``December 31, 2011'':
            (1) Section 1030(i), relating to health professions 
        referral bonus.
            (2) Section 3252(h), relating to Army referral bonus.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

SEC. 621. TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCES FOR ATTENDANCE OF 
              MEMBERS AND CERTAIN OTHER PERSONS AT YELLOW RIBBON 
              REINTEGRATION PROGRAM EVENTS.

    (a) Travel and Transportation Authorized.--Chapter 7 of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 411k the 
following new section:
``Sec. 411l. Travel and transportation allowances: attendance of 
              members and others at Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program 
              events
    ``(a) Allowances Authorized.--(1) Under uniform regulations 
prescribed by the Secretaries concerned, a member of the uniformed 
services authorized to attend a Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program 
event may be provided travel and transportation allowances in order 
that the member may attend a Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program event.
    ``(2) Under uniform regulations prescribed by the Secretaries 
concerned, not more than three persons designated under subsection (b) 
by a member of the uniformed services attending a Yellow Ribbon 
Reintegration Program event may be provided travel and transportation 
allowances in order to accompany the member in attending such event if 
the Secretary concerned determines that the presence of such person or 
persons at such event may contribute to the purposes of such event for 
the member.
    ``(b) Designation of Persons Eligible for Allowances.--A member 
eligible for travel and transportation allowances under paragraph (1) 
of subsection (a) shall designate, in writing, the person or persons, 
if any, for whom travel and transportation allowances may be provided 
under paragraph (2) of that subsection. A member may revise a 
designation under this subsection at any time.
    ``(c) Form and Amounts of Allowances.--(1) Travel and 
transportation allowances under subsection (a) may be provided--
            ``(A) in the form of transportation in-kind;
            ``(B) in the form of reimbursement for actual and necessary 
        expenses of travel;
            ``(C) in the form of per diem; or
            ``(D) in a combination of the forms specified in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C).
    ``(2) The amounts of reimbursement and rates of per diem payable 
under paragraph (1) may not exceed the amounts of reimbursement and 
rates of per diem established for similar travel under section 404(d) 
of this title.
    ``(d) Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program Event Defined.--In this 
section, the term `Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program event' means an 
event authorized under section 582 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 10101 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is amended by inserting after the item related 
to section 411k the following new item:

``411l. Travel and transportation allowances: attendance of members and 
                            others at Yellow Ribbon Reintegration 
                            Program events.''.

SEC. 622. AUTHORITY FOR PAYMENT OF FULL REPLACEMENT VALUE FOR LOSS OR 
              DAMAGE TO HOUSEHOLD GOODS IN CERTAIN CASES NOT COVERED BY 
              CARRIER LIABILITY.

    (a) Claims Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 163 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 2740. Property loss: reimbursement of members and civilian 
              employees for full replacement value of household effects 
              when contractor reimbursement not available
    ``The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
departments may, in paying a claim under section 3721 of title 31 
arising from loss or damage to household goods stored or transported at 
the expense of the Department of Defense, pay the claim on the basis of 
full replacement value in any of the following cases in which 
reimbursement for the full replacement value for the loss or damage is 
not available directly from a carrier under section 2636a of this 
title:
            ``(1) A case in which--
                    ``(A) the lost or damaged goods were stored or 
                transported under a contract, tender, or solicitation 
                in accordance with section 2636a of this title that 
                requires the transportation service provider to settle 
                claims on the basis of full replacement value; but
                    ``(B) the loss or damage occurred under 
                circumstances that exclude the transportation service 
                provider from liability.
            ``(2) A case in which--
                    ``(A) the loss or damage occurred while the lost or 
                damaged goods were in the possession of an ocean 
                carrier that was transporting, loading, or unloading 
                the goods under a Department of Defense contract for 
                ocean carriage; and
                    ``(B) the land-based portions of the transportation 
                were under contracts, in accordance with section 2636a 
                of this title, that require the land carriers to settle 
                claims on the basis of full replacement value.
            ``(3) A case in which--
                    ``(A) the lost or damaged goods were transported or 
                stored under a contract or solicitation that requires 
                at least one of the transportation service providers or 
                carriers that handled the shipment to settle claims on 
                the basis of full replacement value pursuant to section 
                2636a of this title;
                    ``(B) the lost or damaged goods have been in the 
                custody of more than one independent contractor or 
                transportation service provider; and
                    ``(C) a claim submitted to the delivering 
                transportation service provider or carrier is denied in 
                whole or in part because the loss or damage occurred 
                while the lost or damaged goods were in the custody of 
                a prior transportation service provider or carrier or 
                government entity.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 163 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``2740. Property loss: reimbursement of members and civilian employees 
                            for full replacement value of household 
                            effects when contractor reimbursement not 
                            available.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Section 2740 of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to losses incurred 
after March 1, 2008.

       Subtitle D--Disability, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

SEC. 631. REPEAL OF AUTOMATIC ENROLLMENT IN FAMILY SERVICEMEMBERS' 
              GROUP LIFE INSURANCE FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
              MARRIED TO OTHER MEMBERS.

    Section 1967(a)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting after ``insurable 
        dependent of the member'' the following: ``(other than a 
        dependent who is also a member of a uniformed service and, 
        because of such membership, automatically insured under this 
        paragraph)''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by inserting after ``insurable 
        dependent of the member'' the following: ``(other than a 
        dependent who is also a member of a uniformed service and, 
        because of such membership, automatically insured under this 
        paragraph)''.

SEC. 632. CONFORMITY OF SPECIAL COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS WITH INJURIES 
              OR ILLNESSES REQUIRING ASSISTANCE IN EVERYDAY LIVING WITH 
              MONTHLY PERSONAL CAREGIVER STIPEND UNDER DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS PROGRAM OF COMPREHENSIVE ASSISTANCE FOR 
              FAMILY CAREGIVERS.

    Subsection (c) of section 439 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Amount.--The amount of monthly special compensation payable 
to a member under subsection (a) shall be the amount as follows:
            ``(1) The monthly amount of aid and attendance payable 
        under section 1114(r)(2) of title 38.
            ``(2) Upon the establishment by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs pursuant to subparagraph (C) of section 1720G(a)(3) of 
        title 38 of the schedule of monthly personal caregiver stipends 
        under the Department of Veterans Affairs program of 
        comprehensive assistance for family caregivers under 
        subparagraph (A)(ii)(V) of such section, the monthly personal 
        caregiver stipend payable with respect to similarly 
        circumstanced veterans under such schedule, rather than the 
        amount specified in paragraph (1).''.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--TRICARE Program

SEC. 701. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CEILING ON CHARGES FOR INPATIENT CARE 
              UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) One-year Extension.--Section 1086(b)(3) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2011''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2010.

SEC. 702. EXTENSION OF DEPENDENT COVERAGE UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) Dependent Coverage.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 1110b. TRICARE program: extension of dependent coverage
    ``(a) In General.--In accordance with subsection (c), an individual 
described in subsection (b) shall be deemed to be a dependent (as 
described in section 1072(2)(D) of this title) for purposes of coverage 
under the TRICARE program.
    ``(b) Individual Described.--An individual described in this 
subsection is an individual who--
            ``(1) would be a dependent under section 1072(2) of this 
        title but for exceeding an age limit under such section;
            ``(2) has not attained the age of 26;
            ``(3) is not eligible to enroll in an eligible employer-
        sponsored plan (as defined in section 5000A(f)(2) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986);
            ``(4) is not otherwise a dependent of a member or a former 
        member under any subparagraph of section 1072(2) of this title; 
        and
            ``(5) meets other criteria specified in regulations 
        prescribed by the Secretary, similar to regulations prescribed 
        by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 
        2714(b) of the Public Health Service Act.
    ``(c) Premium.--(1) The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation a 
premium (or premiums) for coverage under the TRICARE program provided 
pursuant to this section to an individual described in subsection (b).
    ``(2) The monthly amount of the premium in effect for a month for 
coverage under the TRICARE program pursuant to this section shall be 
the amount equal to the cost of such coverage that the Secretary 
determines on an appropriate actuarial basis.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall prescribe the requirements and procedures 
applicable to the payment of premiums under this subsection.
    ``(4) Amounts collected as premiums under this subsection shall be 
credited to the appropriation available for the Defense Health Program 
Account under section 1100 of this title, shall be merged with sums in 
such Account that are available for the fiscal year in which collected, 
and shall be available under subsection (b) of such section for such 
fiscal year.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 1110a the following new 
        item:

``1110b. TRICARE program: extension of dependent coverage.''.
    (b) Effective Date and Regulations.--The amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on January 1, 2011. The Secretary of Defense 
shall prescribe an interim final rule with respect to such amendments, 
effective not later than January 1, 2011.

SEC. 703. RECOGNITION OF LICENSED MENTAL HEALTH COUNSELORS AS 
              AUTHORIZED PROVIDERS UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1079(a)(13) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after ``certified nurse practitioner,'' 
the following: ``licensed mental health counselors,''.
    (b) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the other administering Secretaries, issue regulations for 
implementation of the revision made by subsection (a). Such regulations 
shall include qualifications, consistent with subsection (c), for 
licensed mental health counselors to be recognized as authorized to 
practice independently for purposes of reimbursement under the TRICARE 
program. Such regulations shall be issued as an interim final rule 
within 180 days of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Qualifications.--The qualifications referred to in subsection 
(b) shall include the following:
            (1) The mental health counselor must be licensed for 
        independent practice to diagnose and treat mental illness in 
        mental health counseling by the jurisdiction where practicing. 
        In jurisdictions with two or more licenses allowing for 
        differing scopes of independent practice, the licensed mental 
        health counselor may only practice within the scope of the 
        license the mental health counselor possesses.
            (2) The mental health counselor must have passed the 
        National Clinical Mental Health Counseling Examination.
            (3) The mental health counselor must possess a master's or 
        higher-level degree in mental health counseling from a 
        regionally accredited institution. The mental health counseling 
        or clinical mental health counseling program through which the 
        degree was obtained must be accredited by the Council for 
        Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs 
        (CACREP) or a similar accreditation program considered 
        appropriate by the Secretary.
            (4) The mental health counselor must have a minimum of 2 
        years of post-master's degree supervised mental health 
        counseling practice which includes a minimum of 3,000 hours of 
        supervised clinical practice and 100 hours of face-to-face 
        supervision. This supervision must be provided by a mental 
        health counselor who is licensed for independent practice in 
        mental health counseling in the jurisdiction where practicing 
        and must be conducted in a manner that is consistent with the 
        guidelines for supervision of the American Mental Health 
        Counselors Association.
            (5) The mental health counselor must agree that a patient's 
        organic medical problems must receive appropriate concurrent 
        management by a physician.
    (d) Transition Provisions.--The regulations required by subsection 
(b) shall also include transition provisions under which, for a period 
of time specified by the Secretary, mental health counselors meeting 
qualification standards prescribed by the Secretary may continue to be 
recognized as authorized providers under the TRICARE program for 
purposes of practice through referral and on-going supervision by a 
physician.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``administering Secretaries'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 1072(3) of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (2) The term ``TRICARE program'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 1072(7) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 704. PLAN FOR ENHANCEMENT OF QUALITY, EFFICIENCIES, AND SAVINGS IN 
              THE MILITARY HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.

    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth a plan for 
actions to be taken by the Secretary of Defense to enhance quality and 
efficiencies and secure additional cost savings under the TRICARE 
program and the other health care programs and activities of the 
Department of Defense that are funded by the Defense Health Program 
account.
    (b) Potential Actions.--In developing the plan required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider a variety of potential 
actions, including, but not limited to, the following:
            (1) Measures to increase the utilization of home delivery 
        pharmacy.
            (2) Measures to reduce usage of emergency rooms for non-
        emergency health care.
            (3) Implementation of patient-centered medical home.
            (4) Mechanisms to reduce overhead and administrative 
        expenses for health care provided directly by the Secretary and 
        for health care provided under contract.
            (5) Full deployment of electronic health records 
        management.
            (6) Mechanisms to improve patient safety and eliminate 
        ineffective medical procedures.
            (7) The consolidation of support contracts.
            (8) The expansion of prevention and disease management 
        programs.
            (9) Mechanisms to ensure consistency of health care and 
        health care technology throughout the military health care 
        system.
            (10) The establishment of a unified military medical 
        command.
    (c) Anticipated Savings.--The report on the plan required by 
subsection (a) shall set forth, for each action specified in the plan, 
the following:
            (1) An estimate of the cost savings anticipated to be 
        achieved by such action during the five fiscal years beginning 
        with fiscal year 2011.
            (2) Metrics for evaluating the implementation of such 
        action and for determining the amount of cost savings achieved 
        by such action.
    (d) TRICARE Program Defined.--In this section, the term ``TRICARE 
program'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072(7) of title 
10, United States Code.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 711. POSTDEPLOYMENT HEALTH REASSESSMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE 
              MEDICAL TRACKING SYSTEM FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
              DEPLOYED OVERSEAS.

    (a) Requirement for Postdeployment Health Reassessments.--Paragraph 
(1) of subsection (b) of section 1074f of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(1)(A) The system described in subsection (a) shall include the 
use of predeployment medical examinations and postdeployment medical 
examinations (including the assessment of mental health and the drawing 
of blood samples) and postdeployment health reassessments to--
            ``(i) accurately record the medical condition of members 
        before their deployment;
            ``(ii) accurately record any changes in their medical 
        condition during the course of their deployment; and
            ``(iii) identify health concerns, including mental health 
        concerns, that may become manifest several months following 
        their deployment.
    ``(B) The postdeployment medical examination shall be conducted 
when the member is redeployed or otherwise leaves an area in which the 
system is in operation (or as soon as possible thereafter).
    ``(C) The postdeployment health reassessment shall be conducted at 
an appropriate time during the period beginning 90 days after the 
member is redeployed and ending 180 days after the member is 
redeployed.''.
    (b) Incorporation in Reassessments of Elements of Predeployment and 
Postdeployment Medical Examinations.--Paragraph (2) of such subsection 
is amended by striking ``and postdeployment medical examination'' and 
inserting ``medical examination, postdeployment medical examination, 
and postdeployment health reassessment''.
    (c) Recordkeeping.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``and reassessments'' after ``medical 
        examinations''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and the prescription and administration 
        of psychotropic medications'' after ``including 
        immunizations''.
    (d) Quality Assurance.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and postdeployment 
        medical examinations'' and inserting ``, postdeployment medical 
        examinations, and postdeployment health reassessments''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and 
                reassessments'' after ``postdeployment health 
                assessments''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and 
                reassessments'' after ``such assessments''.

SEC. 712. COMPREHENSIVE POLICY ON CONSISTENT AUTOMATED NEUROLOGICAL 
              COGNITIVE ASSESSMENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
              BEFORE AND AFTER DEPLOYMENT.

    (a) Comprehensive Policy Required.--Not later than January 31, 
2011, the Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a 
comprehensive policy on consistent automated neurological cognitive 
assessments of members of the Armed Forces before and after deployment.
    (b) Scope of Policy.--The policy required by subsection (a) shall 
address each of the following:
            (1) The administration of effective predeployment and 
        postdeployment automated neurological cognitive assessments 
        selected by the Department of Defense for its neurological 
        cognitive assessment test program in compliance with section 
        1673 of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110-
        181; 122 Stat. 482) for all members of the Armed Forces who are 
        preparing to deploy and all members who have returned from 
        deployment and have experienced an event which could result in 
        traumatic brain injury or a concussion.
            (2) The method used by the Department to evaluate automated 
        technologies to be used for neurological cognitive assessments 
        of members of the Armed Forces before and after deployment.
            (3) A plan of outreach to members of the Armed Forces who 
        received predeployment baseline cognitive ability assessments 
        and experienced an event which could result in traumatic brain 
        injury or a concussion for the purpose of conducting a 
        consistent automated postdeployment cognitive assessment test 
        and ensuring referral for follow-up care, as appropriate.
            (4) The standardization of testing procedures for 
        neurological cognitive assessments of members of the Armed 
        Forces throughout the Department.
            (5) The documentation of the results of automated 
        neurological cognitive assessments of members of the Armed 
        Forces in electronic form in the medical records of such 
        members.
            (6) The compatibility of electronic documentation of 
        cognitive assessment test results and follow-up referrals with 
        the electronic health record systems of the Department of 
        Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (7) The feasibility of establishing an electronic 
        longitudinal neurological cognitive assessment medical record 
        for the on-going care of members and veterans throughout the 
        Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (8) The availability of results and reports on automated 
        neurological cognitive assessments of members of the Armed 
        Forces to members of the Armed Forces and veterans for their 
        personal use in health management.
    (c) Updates.--The Secretary shall revise the policy required by 
subsection (a) on a periodic basis in accordance with experience and 
evolving best practice guidelines.

SEC. 713. RESTORATION OF PREVIOUS POLICY REGARDING RESTRICTIONS ON USE 
              OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MEDICAL FACILITIES.

    Section 1093 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b); and
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a) Restriction on Use 
        of Funds.--''.

SEC. 714. TRAVEL FOR ANESTHESIA SERVICES FOR CHILDBIRTH FOR COMMAND-
              SPONSORED DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS ASSIGNED TO REMOTE 
              LOCATIONS OUTSIDE THE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES.

    (a) Travel Authorized.--Section 1040(a) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) For purposes of paragraph (1), required medical attention 
of a dependent includes, in the case of a dependent authorized to 
accompany a member at a location described in that paragraph, 
obstetrical anesthesia services for childbirth equivalent to the 
obstetrical anesthesia services for childbirth available in a military 
treatment facility in the United States.
    ``(B) In the case of a dependent at a remote location outside the 
continental United States who elects services described in subparagraph 
(A) and for whom air transportation would be needed to travel under 
paragraph (1) to the nearest appropriate medical facility at which 
adequate medical care is available, the Secretary may authorize the 
dependent to receive transportation under that paragraph to the 
continental United States and be treated at the military treatment 
facility that can provide appropriate obstetrical services that is 
nearest to the closest port of entry into the continental United States 
from such remote location.
    ``(C) The second through sixth sentences of paragraph (1) shall 
apply to a dependent provided transportation by reason of this 
paragraph.
    ``(D) The total cost incurred by the United States for the 
provision of transportation and expenses (including per diem) with 
respect to a dependent by reason of this paragraph may not exceed the 
cost the United States would otherwise incur for the provision of 
transportation and expenses with respect to that dependent under 
paragraph (1) if the transportation and expenses were provided to that 
dependent without regard to this paragraph.
    ``(E) The authority under this paragraph shall expire on September 
30, 2015.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2013, the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs shall submit to the Secretary 
of Defense and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget a 
report on the use of the authority under paragraph (2) of section 
1040(a) of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)). 
The report shall--
            (1) identify associated costs and the effect of the use of 
        the authority on obstetric care provided at overseas military 
        treatment facilities; and
            (2) include the recommendation of the Assistant Secretary 
        as to whether an extension of the authority is advisable.

SEC. 715. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF MEDICAL RECORDS 
              FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1614(b)(11) of the Wounded Warrior Act 
(title XVI of Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 445; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) 
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
or that such transfer is otherwise authorized by the regulations 
implementing such Act''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be 
effective as if included in section 1614 of such Act as enacted on 
January 28, 2008.

SEC. 716. CLARIFICATION OF LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO 
              MILITARY HEALTH-CARE PROFESSIONALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE 
              NATIONAL GUARD PERFORMING CERTAIN DUTY WHILE IN STATE 
              STATUS.

    Section 1094(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or (3)'' after 
        ``paragraph (2)'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``as being described in 
        this paragraph'' after ``paragraph (1)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) A health-care professional referred to in paragraph 
        (1) as being described in this paragraph is a member of the 
        National Guard who--
                    ``(A) has a current license to practice medicine, 
                osteopathic medicine, dentistry, or another health 
                profession; and
                    ``(B) is performing training or duty under section 
                502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in response to 
                an actual or potential disaster.''.

SEC. 717. EDUCATION AND TRAINING ON USE OF PHARMACEUTICALS IN 
              REHABILITATION PROGRAMS FOR WOUNDED WARRIORS.

    (a) Education and Training Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall develop and implement training, available through the Internet or 
other means, on the use of pharmaceuticals in rehabilitation programs 
for seriously ill or injured members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Recipients of Training.--The training developed and implemented 
under subsection (a) shall be training for each category of individuals 
as follows:
            (1) Patients in or transitioning to a Wounded Warrior Unit, 
        with special accommodation in such training for such patients 
        with cognitive disabilities.
            (2) Medical caregivers.
            (3) Medical case managers.
            (4) Nonmedical case managers.
            (5) Military leaders.
            (6) Family members.
    (c) Elements of Training.--The training developed and implemented 
under subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) An overview of the fundamentals of clinical 
        pharmacology.
            (2) Familiarization with principles on the utilization of 
        pharmaceuticals in rehabilitation therapies.
            (3) Case studies on the utilization of pharmaceuticals for 
        individuals with multiple, complex injuries, including 
        Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder 
        (PTSD).
            (4) Familiarization with means of finding additional 
        resources for information on pharmaceuticals.
            (5) Familiarization with basic elements of pain and 
        pharmaceutical management.
            (6) Familiarization with complementary and alternative 
        therapies.
    (d) Tailoring of Training.--The training developed and implemented 
under subsection (a) shall appropriately tailor the elements specified 
in subsection (c) for and among each category of individuals set forth 
in subsection (b).
    (e) Proficiency.--The Secretary of Defense may, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, establish standards 
or requirements for the completion of training developed and 
implemented under subsection (a) and for proficiency in the matters 
covered by such training for all recipients of such training.

                          Subtitle C--Reports

SEC. 731. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT OF MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES WHO EXPERIENCE TRAUMATIC INJURY AS A RESULT 
              OF VACCINATIONS REQUIRED BY THE DEPARTMENT.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth the results 
of a comprehensive review (conducted for purposes of the report) of the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the policies, procedures, and systems of 
the Department of Defense in providing support to members of the Armed 
Forces who experience traumatic injury as a result of a vaccination 
required by the Department.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) The number and nature of traumatic injuries incurred by 
        members of the Armed Forces as a result of a vaccination 
        required by the Department of Defense each year since January 
        1, 2001, set forth by aggregate in each year and by military 
        department in each year.
            (2) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense 
        considers appropriate for improvements to the policies, 
        procedures, and systems (including tracking systems) of the 
        Department to identify members of the Armed Forces who 
        experience traumatic injury as a result of a vaccination 
        required by the Department.
            (3) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense 
        considers appropriate for improvements to the policies, 
        procedures, and systems of the Department to support members of 
        the Armed Forces who experience traumatic injury as a result of 
        the administration of a vaccination required by the Department.
            (4) In consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
        an assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the advisability 
        of extending Traumatic Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance 
        under section 1980A of title 38, United States Code, to cover 
        traumatic adverse reactions that result from vaccinations 
        required by the Department.
            (5) If the extension described in paragraph (4) is 
        determined not to be advisable, an identification of other 
        Federal programs the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate 
        to provide similar support to members of the Armed Forces who 
        experience traumatic injury as a result of a vaccination 
        required by the Department.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' Affairs 
        of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' Affairs 
        of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 732. REPEAL OF REPORT REQUIREMENT ON SEPARATIONS RESULTING FROM 
              REFUSAL TO PARTICIPATE IN ANTHRAX VACCINE IMMUNIZATION 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 1178 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) Requirement To Establish System.--''; 
        and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

SEC. 801. IMPROVEMENTS TO STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONING OF JOINT 
              REQUIREMENTS OVERSIGHT COUNCIL.

    (a) Vice Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff To Be Chairman of 
Council.--Subsection (c) of section 181 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Vice'' before 
        ``Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``, other than the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,'' and inserting ``under 
        subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (1)''; and
            (3) by striking paragraph (3).
    (b) Role of Commanders of Combatant Commands as Members of 
Council.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of such section is further 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) in addition, when directed by the chairman, the 
        commander of any combatant command (or, as directed by that 
        commander, the deputy commander of that command) when matters 
        related to the area of responsibility or functions of that 
        command will be under consideration by the Council.''.
    (c) Civilian Advisors.--
            (1) Additional civilian advisors.--Subsection (d) of such 
        section is amended by striking ``The Under Secretary'' and all 
        that follows through ``and expertise.'' and inserting: ``The 
        following officials of the Department of Defense shall serve as 
        advisors to the Council on matters within their authority and 
        expertise:
                    ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
                    ``(B) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
                    ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
                    ``(D) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
                Evaluation.
                    ``(E) The Director of Operational Test and 
                Evaluation.
                    ``(F) Such other civilian officials of the 
                Department of Defense as are designated by the 
                Secretary of Defense for purposes of this 
                subsection.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsection (b)(3) of such 
        section is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of Defense 
        (Comptroller), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics, and the Director of Cost Assessment 
        and Performance Evaluation'' and inserting ``advisors to the 
        Council under subsection (d)''.
    (d) Recognition of Permanent Nature of Council.--Subsection (a) of 
such section is amended by striking ``The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish'' and inserting ``There is''.

SEC. 802. COST ESTIMATES FOR PROGRAM BASELINES AND CONTRACT 
              NEGOTIATIONS FOR MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION AND MAJOR 
              AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEM PROGRAMS.

    Section 2334 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``paragraph (2)'' and 
                        inserting ``paragraph (3)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``, the rationale for 
                        selecting such confidence level, and, if such 
                        confidence level is less than 80 percent, the 
                        justification for selecting a confidence level 
                        of less than 80 percent; and'' and inserting 
                        ``and the rationale for selecting such 
                        confidence level;'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) ensure that such confidence level provides a high 
        degree of confidence that the program can be completed without 
        the need for significant adjustment to program budgets; and'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Estimates for Program Baseline and Contract Negotiation 
Purposes.--(1) The policies, procedures, and guidance issued by the 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation in accordance with 
the requirements of subsection (a) shall provide that--
            ``(A) cost estimates developed for baseline descriptions 
        and other program purposes specified in subsection (a)(6) are 
        not to be used for the purpose of contract negotiations or the 
        obligation of funds; and
            ``(B) cost estimates developed for the purpose of contract 
        negotiations and the obligation of funds are based on the 
        government's reasonable expectation of successful contractor 
        performance in accordance with the contractor's proposal and 
        previous experience.
    ``(2) The Program Manager and contracting officer for each major 
defense acquisition program and major automated information system 
program shall ensure that cost estimates developed for the purpose of 
contract negotiations and the obligation of funds are carried out in 
accordance with the requirements of paragraph (1) and the policies, 
procedures, and guidance issued by the Director of Cost Assessment and 
Program Evaluation.
    ``(3) Funds that are made available for a major defense acquisition 
program or major automated information system program in accordance 
with a cost estimate developed pursuant to subsection (a)(6), but are 
excess to a cost estimate developed pursuant to paragraph (2), shall 
remain available for obligation in accordance with the terms of 
applicable authorization and appropriations Acts, but may not be 
obligated without the written approval of the Milestone Decision 
Authority for such major defense acquisition program or major automated 
information system program.
    ``(4) Funds described in paragraph (3)--
            ``(A) may be used--
                    ``(i) to cover increased program costs, as 
                reflected in a revised cost estimate developed pursuant 
                to paragraph (2); or
                    ``(ii) to acquire additional end items in 
                accordance with the requirements of section 2308 of 
                this title; and
            ``(B) may be reprogrammed, in accordance with established 
        procedures, only if determined to be excess to program needs on 
        the basis of a revised cost estimate developed pursuant to 
        subsection (a)(6).''.

SEC. 803. MANAGEMENT OF MANUFACTURING RISK IN MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Guidance Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
comprehensive guidance on the management of manufacturing risk in major 
defense acquisition programs.
    (b) Elements.--The guidance issued under subsection (a) shall, at a 
minimum--
            (1) require the use of manufacturing readiness levels as a 
        basis for measuring, assessing, reporting, and communicating 
        manufacturing readiness and risk on major defense acquisition 
        programs throughout the Department of Defense;
            (2) provide guidance on the definition of manufacturing 
        readiness levels and how manufacturing readiness levels should 
        be used to assess manufacturing risk and readiness in major 
        defense acquisition programs;
            (3) specify manufacturing readiness levels that should be 
        achieved at key milestones and decision points for major 
        defense acquisition programs;
            (4) identify tools and models that may be used to manage 
        and reduce risks that are identified in the course of 
        manufacturing readiness assessments for major defense 
        acquisition programs; and
            (5) require appropriate consideration of the manufacturing 
        readiness and manufacturing readiness processes of potential 
        contractors and subcontractors as a part of the source 
        selection process for major defense acquisition programs.
    (c) Manufacturing Readiness Expertise.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that--
            (1) the acquisition workforce chapter of the annual 
        strategic workforce plan required by section 115b of title 10, 
        United States Code, includes an assessment of the critical 
        manufacturing readiness knowledge and skills needed in the 
        acquisition workforce and a plan of action for addressing any 
        gaps in such knowledge and skills; and
            (2) the need of the Department for manufacturing readiness 
        knowledge and skills is given appropriate consideration, 
        comparable to the consideration given to other program 
        management functions, as the Department identifies areas of 
        need for funding through the Defense Acquisition Workforce 
        Development Fund established in accordance with the 
        requirements of section 1705 of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Major Defense Acquisition Program Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``major defense acquisition program'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 2430(a) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 804. EXTENSION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENTAL TEST 
              AND EVALUATION AND SYSTEMS ENGINEERING IN THE MILITARY 
              DEPARTMENTS AND DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    Section 102(b) of the Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 
(Public Law 111-23; 123 Stat. 1714; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, and not later than 
        February 15 of each year from 2011 through 2016'' after ``Not 
        later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``The first annual 
        report'' and inserting ``Each annual report from 2010 through 
        2016''.

SEC. 805. INCLUSION OF MAJOR SUBPROGRAMS TO MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
              PROGRAMS UNDER VARIOUS ACQUISITION-RELATED REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Reporting Requirements.--Section 2430a(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``If the Secretary'';
            (3) in subparagraph (A), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        ``(other than as provided in paragraph (2))'' before the 
        semicolon; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) For a major defense acquisition program for which a 
designation of a major subprogram has been made under subsection (a), 
unit costs under this chapter shall be submitted in accordance with the 
definitions in subsection (d).''.
    (b) Milestone A Approval Certification Requirements.--Section 2366a 
of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a major defense 
                acquisition program certified by the Milestone Decision 
                Authority under subsection (a), if the cost of the 
                program'' and inserting ``a major defense acquisition 
                program certified by the Milestone Decision Authority 
                under subsection (a) or a designated major subprogram 
                of such program, if the cost of the program or 
                subprogram''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or designated 
                major subprogram'' after ``major defense acquisition 
                program''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and 
                (5) as paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), respectively; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) The term `designated major subprogram' means a major 
        subprogram of a major defense acquisition program designated 
        under section 2430a(a)(1) of this title.''.
    (c) Milestone B Approval Certification Requirements.--Section 2366b 
of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``any changes to the program'' and 
                inserting ``any changes to the program or a designated 
                major subprogram of such program''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``otherwise 
                cause the program'' and inserting ``otherwise cause the 
                program or subprogram''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) 
                as paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
            ``(2) The term `designated major subprogram' means a major 
        subprogram of a major defense acquisition program designated 
        under section 2430a(a)(1) of this title.''.

SEC. 806. TECHNICAL AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS TO WEAPON SYSTEMS 
              ACQUISITION REFORM ACT OF 2009.

    (a) Clarification That Prototypes May Be Acquired From Commercial, 
Government, or Academic Sources.--Paragraph (4) of section 203(a) of 
Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-23; 123 
Stat. 1722; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) That prototypes--
                    ``(A) may be required under paragraph (1) or (3) 
                for the system to be acquired or, if prototyping of the 
                system is not feasible, for critical subsystems of the 
                system; and
                    ``(B) may be acquired from commercial, government, 
                or academic sources.''.
    (b) Clarification That Certifications Are Not Required for Major 
Defense Acquisition Programs Following Milestone C Approval.--Section 
204(c)(2) of the Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (123 
Stat. 1724) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) has not yet achieved a Milestone C 
                approval.''.
    (c) Clarification That Certain Milestone B Certification Criteria 
May Be Waived.--
            (1) Waiver authority.--Section 2366b(d) of title 10, United 
        States Code, as amended by section 205(a)(1) of the Weapon 
        Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (123 Stat. 1724), is 
        amended by striking ``specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
        subsection (a)'' both places it appears and inserting 
        ``specified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection 
        (a)''.
            (2) Determination regarding satisfaction of certification 
        components.--Section 205(b)(1) of the Weapon Systems 
        Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2366b note) is 
        amended by striking ``certification components specified in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of section 2366b of 
        title 10, United States Code'' and inserting ``certification 
        components specified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of 
        subsection (a) of section 2366b of title 10, United States 
        Code''.
    (d) Correction to Reference.--Section 205(c) of the Weapon Systems 
Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2433a note) is amended by 
striking ``section 2433a(c)(3)'' and inserting ``section 
2433(a)(c)(1)(C)''.

             Subtitle B--Acquisition Policy and Management

SEC. 811. NEW ACQUISITION PROCESS FOR RAPID FIELDING OF CAPABILITIES IN 
              RESPONSE TO URGENT OPERATIONAL NEEDS.

    (a) New Acquisition Process Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        develop and implement a new acquisition process to ensure the 
        rapid fielding of capabilities in response to urgent 
        operational needs.
            (2) Elements.--The acquisition process developed and 
        implemented pursuant to this subsection shall, to the extent 
        determined appropriate by the Secretary--
                    (A) be consistent with--
                            (i) the fifth recommendation of the July 
                        2009 report of the Defense Science Board Task 
                        Force on Fulfillment of Urgent Operational 
                        Needs; and
                            (ii) the recommendations of the April 2010 
                        report of the Government Accountability Office 
                        on DOD's Urgent Needs Processes;
                    (B) clearly define the roles and responsibilities 
                of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint 
                Chiefs of Staff, the military departments, and other 
                components of the Department of Defense for carrying 
                out all phases of the process;
                    (C) designate a senior official within the Office 
                of the Secretary of Defense with primary responsibility 
                for making recommendations to the Secretary on the use 
                of the authority provided by subsections (c) and (d) of 
                section 806 of the Bob Stump National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (10 U.S.C. 
                2302), as added by section 811 of the Ronald Reagan 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 
                (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 2012), in appropriate 
                circumstances;
                    (D) be designed to provide a streamlined, 
                expedited, and tightly integrated approach to--
                            (i) the identification and validation of 
                        urgent operational needs;
                            (ii) the analysis of alternatives and 
                        identification of preferred solutions;
                            (iii) the development and approval of 
                        appropriate requirements and acquisition 
                        documents;
                            (iv) the identification and minimization of 
                        development, integration, and manufacturing 
                        risks;
                            (v) the consideration of operation and 
                        sustainment costs;
                            (vi) the allocation of appropriate funding; 
                        and
                            (vii) the rapid production and delivery of 
                        required capabilities;
                    (E) ensure that a target date is established for 
                the fielding of a capability pursuant to each validated 
                urgent operational need;
                    (F) include a system for--
                            (i) documenting key process milestones, 
                        such as funding, acquisition, fielding, and 
                        assessment decisions and actions; and
                            (ii) tracking the cost, schedule, and 
                        performance of acquisitions conducted pursuant 
                        to the process; and
                    (G) include an established, formal feedback 
                mechanism for the commanders of the combatant commands 
                to provide information to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and 
                senior acquisition officials on how well fielded 
                solutions are meeting urgent needs.
    (b) Applicability of New Process.--
            (1) Review of applicability of needs for fielding through 
        process.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop and 
        implement an expedited review process to determine whether 
        capabilities proposed as urgent operational needs are 
        appropriate for fielding through the acquisition process 
        developed and implemented pursuant to subsection (a) or should 
        be fielded through the traditional acquisition process.
            (2) Elements.--The review process developed and implemented 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) apply to the rapid fielding of capabilities in 
                response to joint urgent operational need statements 
                and to other urgent operational needs statements 
                generated by the military departments and the combatant 
                commands;
                    (B) identify officials responsible for making 
                determinations described in paragraph (1);
                    (C) establish appropriate time periods for making 
                such determinations;
                    (D) set forth standards and criteria for making 
                such determinations based on considerations of urgency, 
                risk, and life cycle management;
                    (E) establish appropriate thresholds for the 
                applicability of the review process, or of elements of 
                the review process; and
                    (F) authorize appropriate officials to make 
                exceptions from standards established under this 
                subsection in exceptional circumstances.
            (3) Covered capabilities.--The review process developed and 
        implemented pursuant to paragraph (1) shall provide that, 
        subject to such exceptions as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for purposes of this section, the acquisition 
        process developed and implemented pursuant to subsection (a) is 
        appropriate only for capabilities that--
                    (A) can be fielded within a period of 2 to 24 
                months;
                    (B) do not require substantial development effort;
                    (C) are based on technologies that are proven and 
                available; and
                    (D) can be acquired under fixed price contracts.
    (c) Review of Organization and Funding for Urgent Operational 
Needs.--
            (1) Review.--The Secretary shall review the organization 
        and funding of the Department of Defense for the rapid fielding 
        of capabilities in response to urgent operational needs in 
        order to develop such recommendations on the enhancement of 
        such organization and funding as the Secretary consider 
        appropriate.
            (2) Recommendations.--The recommendations developed by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, 
        recommendations on the advisability of establishing a dedicated 
        source of funding, and a new agency, dedicated to the rapid 
        fielding of capabilities in response to urgent operational 
        needs, as recommended by the Defense Science Board Task Force 
        on Fulfillment of Urgent Operational Needs.
    (d) Testing Requirements.--
            (1) Process for demonstration of performance.--The 
        acquisition process developed and implemented pursuant to this 
        section shall include a process for demonstrating performance 
        of capabilities in a manner that is consistent with the 
        requirements of section 806(b)(2) of the Bob Stump National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (10 U.S.C. 2302 
        note), the principles established in the July 2007 report to 
        Congress pursuant to section 231 of the John Warner National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-
        364; 120 Stat. 2131), and the need for rapid fielding of 
        capabilities in response to urgent operational needs.
            (2) Development of operation and developmental testing 
        requirements.--To the maximum extent practicable and consistent 
        with the need for rapid fielding, operational and developmental 
        testing requirements for capabilities covered by the 
        acquisition process shall be developed in coordination with the 
        Director of Operational Test and Evaluation and the Director of 
        Developmental Test and Evaluation.
    (e) Follow-on Production, Sustainment, and Logistics Support.--Not 
later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall issue guidance to provide for the appropriate 
transition of capabilities fielded through the acquisition process 
developed and implemented pursuant to this section into the traditional 
budget, requirements, and acquisition process for purposes of contracts 
for follow-on production, sustainment, and logistics support.
    (f) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the implementation of the 
        requirements of this section. Such report shall include, at a 
        minimum, the following:
                    (A) A description of the acquisition process 
                developed and implemented pursuant to subsection (a).
                    (B) A description of the expedited review process 
                developed and implemented pursuant to subsection (b).
                    (C) The results of the review conducted pursuant to 
                subsection (c), including the recommendations described 
                in that subsection.
                    (D) A description of the testing process 
                established pursuant to subsection (d).
                    (E) A description of the transition guidance issued 
                pursuant to subsection (e).
                    (F) Such recommendations for such legislative 
                action as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
                enhance the utility of the expedited acquisition 
                process required by this section.
                    (G) Such other matters relating to the 
                implementation of the requirements of this section as 
                the Secretary considers appropriate, including such 
                other recommendations as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Annual reports.--Not later than 30 days after the end 
        of fiscal year 2011, and 30 days after the end of each 
        subsequent fiscal year through fiscal year 2016, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the rapid fielding of capabilities under the acquisition 
        process developed and implemented pursuant to this section. 
        Each such report shall include, at a minimum, the following:
                    (A) The number and dollar value of acquisitions 
                conducted pursuant to the acquisition process during 
                the previous fiscal year.
                    (B) An assessment of the successes and failures of 
                acquisitions conducted pursuant to the acquisition 
                process during the previous fiscal year.
                    (C) An identification of each acquisition conducted 
                pursuant to the acquisition process during the previous 
                fiscal year in which a capability was not fielded by 
                the target date established under this section, the 
                reasons for the failure to field such capability by the 
                target date, and the plans of the Department for 
                fielding such capability.
                    (D) A description of any plans of the Department to 
                improve or enhance the acquisition process.

SEC. 812. ACQUISITION OF MAJOR AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEM PROGRAMS.

    (a) Program to Improve Information Technology Processes.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 131 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 2223 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 2223a. Information technology acquisition planning and oversight 
              requirements
    ``(a) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a program to improve the planning and oversight processes for 
the acquisition of major automated information systems by the 
Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Program Components.--The program established under subsection 
(a) shall include--
            ``(1) a documented process for information technology 
        acquisition planning, requirements development and management, 
        project management and oversight, earned value management, and 
        risk management;
            ``(2) the development of appropriate metrics that can be 
        implemented and monitored on a real-time basis for performance 
        measurement of--
                    ``(A) processes and development status of 
                investments in major automated information system 
                programs;
                    ``(B) continuous process improvement of the 
                program; and
                    ``(C) achievement of program and investment 
                outcomes;
            ``(3) a process to ensure that key program personnel have 
        an appropriate level of experience, training, and education in 
        the planning, acquisition, execution, management, and oversight 
        of information technology systems;
            ``(4) a process to ensure that military departments and 
        defense agencies adhere to established processes and 
        requirements relating to the planning, acquisition, execution, 
        management, and oversight of information technology programs 
        and developments; and
            ``(5) a process under which an appropriate Department of 
        Defense official may intervene or terminate the funding of an 
        information technology investment if the investment is at risk 
        of not achieving major project milestones.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 131 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 2223 the following new item:

``2223a. Information technology acquisition planning and oversight 
                            requirements.''.
    (b) Annual Report to Congress.--Section 2445b(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs:
            ``(5) For each major automated information system program 
        for which such information has not been provided in a previous 
        annual report--
                    ``(A) a description of the primary business case 
                and key functional requirements for the program;
                    ``(B) a description of the analysis of alternatives 
                conducted with regard to the program;
                    ``(C) an assessment of the extent to which the 
                program, or portions of the program, have technical 
                requirements of sufficient clarity that the program, or 
                portions of the program, may be feasibly procured under 
                firm, fixed-price contracts;
                    ``(D) the most recent independent cost estimate or 
                cost analysis for the program provided by the Director 
                of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation in accordance 
                with section 2334(a)(6) of this title;
                    ``(E) a certification by a Department of Defense 
                acquisition official with responsibility for the 
                program that all technical and business requirements 
                have been reviewed and validated to ensure alignment 
                with the business case; and
                    ``(F) an explanation of the basis for the 
                certification described in subparagraph (E).
            ``(6) For each major automated information system program 
        for which the information required under paragraph (5) has been 
        provided in a previous annual report, a summary of any 
        significant changes to the information previously provided.''.

SEC. 813. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION CHALLENGE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Permanent Authority.--Section 2359b of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking subsection (k).
    (b) Repeal of Annual Report Requirement.--Such section is further 
amended by striking subsection (j).
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Such section is further amended by 
redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (j).

SEC. 814. EXPORTABILITY FEATURES FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SYSTEMS.

    (a) Incorporation of Exportability Features During Research and 
Development on Defense Systems.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 2367 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 2368. Defense systems identified for possible export: design and 
              incorporation of exportability features during research 
              and development
    ``(a) Exportability Features for Defense Systems Identified for 
Possible Future Export.--Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of 
Defense may, during the research and development phases of any 
Department of Defense system identified for possible future export, 
carry out activities--
            ``(1) for the development of program protection strategies 
        for the system; and
            ``(2) for the design and incorporation of exportability 
        features into the system.
    ``(b) Use of Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation Funds.--
(1) Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, the 
Secretary may use funds available to the Department of Defense for 
research, development, test, and evaluation for activities under this 
section.
    ``(2) The amount of funds described in paragraph (1) that are used 
under that paragraph in any fiscal year may not exceed $5,000,000.
    ``(c) Cost-sharing and Recoupment.--(1) Any contract for the design 
or development of a system referred to in subsection (a) which contains 
a requirement to carry out activities specified in paragraph (1) or (2) 
of that subsection shall include a cost-sharing provision that requires 
the contractor to bear at least one half of the cost of such 
activities.
    ``(2) Any costs borne by the Department of Defense for activities 
specified in paragraph (1) or (2) of subjection (a) shall be subject to 
recoupment at the time of an export sale, in accordance with sections 
21(e)(1)(B) and 22(a) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
2671(e)(1)(B), 2762(a)).
    ``(d) Annual Report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
fiscal year during which this section is in effect, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the defense 
systems for which exportability features were incorporated during 
research and development activities during such fiscal year.
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall expire on 
September 30, 2016.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 2367 the following new item:

``2368. Defense systems identified for possible export: design and 
                            incorporation of exportability features 
                            during research and development.''.
    (b) Report on Exercise of Authority.--Not later than October 1, 
2015, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a written 
report on actions taken under section 2368(a) of title 10, United 
States Code (as added by subsection (a)), since the date of the 
enactment of this Act. The report shall include a comprehensive 
assessment of the benefits and costs of exportability development under 
that section, including, for each system so developed, an analysis of 
the effects of such development on interoperability, deployment times 
for both domestic and foreign export versions of such system, system 
security, and system sales.

SEC. 815. REDUCTION OF SUPPLY CHAIN RISK IN THE ACQUISITION OF NATIONAL 
              SECURITY SYSTEMS.

    (a) Use of Qualification Requirements to Reduce Supply Chain 
Risk.--The head of an agency may, on the basis of a joint 
recommendation by the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information 
Integration--
            (1) establish qualification requirements, in accordance 
        with the requirements of section 2319 of title 10, United 
        States Code, for the purpose of reducing supply chain risk in 
        the acquisition of covered systems or covered items of supply; 
        and
            (2) restrict the procurement of a covered system or a 
        covered item of supply to sources that meet qualification 
        requirements established pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (b) Use of Evaluation Factors to Reduce Supply Chain Risk.--The 
head of an agency may--
            (1) provide for the consideration of supply chain risk as a 
        significant factor in the evaluation of proposals for the 
        procurement of a covered system or a covered item of supply; 
        and
            (2) utilize the assistance of the Director of the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Networks and Information Integration in evaluating proposals 
        with regard to such factor.
    (c) Exclusion of Certain Sources to Reduce Supply Chain Risk.--If 
the head of an agency determines, on the basis of a joint 
recommendation by the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information 
Integration, that the exclusion of a particular source is necessary to 
avoid an unacceptable supply chain risk, the head of an agency may--
            (1) notwithstanding the requirements of section 2304(a) of 
        title 10, United States Code, provide for the procurement of a 
        covered system or a covered item of supply using competitive 
        procedures, but excluding the particular source;
            (2) notwithstanding the requirements of section 2304c(b) of 
        title 10, United States Code, provide for the award of a task 
        or delivery order for a covered system or a covered item of 
        supply under a multiple task or delivery order contract on the 
        basis of a fair opportunity for all contractors to be 
        considered, after excluding the particular source;
            (3) withhold consent for a contractor for a covered system 
        or a covered item of supply to subcontract with the particular 
        source; or
            (4) direct a contractor for a covered system or a covered 
        item of supply to exclude the particular source from 
        consideration for subcontracts under the contract.
    (d) Determinations.--A determination under subsection (c) that the 
exclusion of a particular source is necessary to avoid an unacceptable 
supply chain risk--
            (1) shall be made in writing;
            (2) shall include--
                    (A) the information required by section 2304(f)(3) 
                of title 10, United States Code; and
                    (B) the joint recommendation by the Director of the 
                Defense Intelligence Agency and the Assistant Secretary 
                of Defense for Networks and Information Integration as 
                specified in subsection (c);
            (3) may not be delegated--
                    (A) in the case of a procurement with an estimated 
                value of $50,000,000 or more (including all options), 
                below the level of head of an agency;
                    (B) in the case of any other procurement, below the 
                level of senior procurement executive for an agency;
            (4) shall not be subject to disclosure under section 552 of 
        title 5, United States Code;
            (5) shall be made in the sole discretion of the head of an 
        agency or senior procurement executive of an agency, as the 
        case may be; and
            (6) shall not be subject to review in a bid protest before 
        the Government Accountability Office or in any Federal court.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year in which the authority under this section is 
        in effect, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the use of the 
        authority during the previous fiscal year.
            (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include, at a minimum, for the fiscal year covered by such 
        report the following:
                    (A) A statistical summary of the contracts subject 
                to qualification requirements under subsection (a), 
                including information on numbers of contracts, contract 
                award amounts, and categories of systems or items of 
                supply addressed.
                    (B) A statistical summary of the contracts subject 
                to determinations under subsection (b), including 
                information on numbers of contracts, contract award 
                amounts, and categories of systems or items of supply 
                addressed.
                    (C) A statistical summary of the contracts subject 
                to determinations under subsection (c), including 
                information on numbers of contracts, contract award 
                amounts, and categories of systems or items of supply 
                addressed.
                    (D) A description of each determination under 
                subsection (c), including a summary of the information 
                required by subsection (d)(2).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``covered item of supply'' means an item of 
        information technology (as that term is defined in section 
        11101 of title 40, United States Code), or any other supply 
        item, the loss of integrity of which could result in a supply 
        chain risk for a covered system.
            (2) The term ``covered system'' means a national security 
        system, as that term is defined in section 3542(b) of title 44, 
        United States Code.
            (3) The term ``head of an agency'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 2302(1) of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) The term ``supply chain risk'' means the risk that an 
        adversary may sabotage, maliciously introduce unwanted 
        function, or otherwise subvert the design, integrity, 
        manufacturing, production, distribution, installation, 
        operation, or maintenance of a covered system or a covered item 
        of supply so as to surveil, deny, disrupt, or otherwise degrade 
        the function, use, or operation of the system or item.
    (g) Sunset of Authority to Exclude Sources.--The authority to 
exclude sources as provided in subsection (c) shall expire on the date 
that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 816. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY ON ACQUISITION AND PERFORMANCE 
              OF SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that Executive Order No. 13514, dated 
October 5, 2009, requires the departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government to establish an integrated strategy towards the procurement 
of sustainable products and services.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        status of the achievement by the Department of Defense of the 
        objectives and goals on the procurement of sustainable products 
        and services established by section 2(h) of Executive Order No. 
        13514.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the actions taken, and to be 
                taken, to promote the use of products and services 
                described in section 2(h) of Executive Order No. 13514 
                for the purpose of achieving the objective that 95 
                percent of the new contracts of the Department of 
                Defense, and of task and delivery orders under existing 
                Department contracts, for products and services provide 
                for the procurement of sustainable products and 
                services when such products and services meet 
                Department performance requirements.
                    (B) A description of the actions taken, and to be 
                taken, by the Department to identify particular 
                sustainable products and services that contribute to 
                the achievement of the objective described in 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) An assessment of the tools available to the 
                Department to promote the use of particular sustainable 
                products and services identified pursuant to the 
                actions described in subparagraph (B) across the 
                Department, and a description of the actions taken, and 
                to be taken, by the Department to utilize such tools.
                    (D) A description of strategies and tools 
                identified by the Department that could assist the 
                other departments and agencies of the Federal 
                Government in procuring sustainable products and 
                services, including a description of mechanisms for 
                sharing best practices in such procurement, as 
                identified by the Department, among the other 
                departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

SEC. 817. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN PROCUREMENTS FROM FIRMS IN 
              THE SMALL ARMS PRODUCTION INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 2473 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 146 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 2473.

SEC. 818. PROHIBITION ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROCUREMENTS FROM 
              ENTITIES ENGAGING IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY IN THE ENERGY 
              SECTOR OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN.

    (a) Prohibition on Contracts.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
procure, or enter into any contract for the procurement of, any goods 
or services from any person or entity through a contract, grant, loan, 
or loan guarantee in an amount in excess of $1,000,000 unless the 
person or entity certifies to the Secretary that the person or entity--
            (1) does not engage in any activity for which sanctions may 
        be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 note);
            (2) during any 12-month period beginning on or after the 
        date that is one year before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, has not engaged in the sale of refined petroleum products 
        valued at $1,000,000 to the Islamic Republic of Iran;
            (3) during any 12-month period beginning on or after the 
        date that is one year before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, has not engaged in an activity valued at $1,000,000 or 
        more that could contribute to enhancing the ability of the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran to import refined petroleum products, 
        including--
                    (A) providing ships or shipping services to deliver 
                refined petroleum products to the Islamic Republic of 
                Iran;
                    (B) underwriting or otherwise providing insurance 
                or reinsurance for such an activity; or
                    (C) financing or brokering such an activity;
            (4) during any 12-month period beginning on or after the 
        date that is one year before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, has not engaged in the selling, leasing, or otherwise 
        providing to the Islamic Republic of Iran any goods, services, 
        or technology valued at $1,000,000 or more that could 
        contribute to the maintenance or expansion of the capacity of 
        the Islamic Republic of Iran to produce refined petroleum 
        products; or
            (5) does not own or control any person or entity that 
        engages in such activity.
    (b) Exceptions.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
apply--
            (1) in the case of the procurement of defense articles or 
        defense services--
                    (A) under existing contracts or subcontracts, 
                including the exercise of options for production 
                quantities to satisfy requirements essential to the 
                national security of the United States;
                    (B) if the Secretary of Defense determines in 
                writing that--
                            (i) the person or entity to which such 
                        prohibition would otherwise be applied is a 
                        sole source supplier of such defense articles 
                        or services;
                            (ii) such defense articles or services are 
                        essential; and
                            (iii) alternative sources for such defense 
                        articles or services are not readily or 
                        reasonably available; or
                    (C) if the Secretary determines in writing that 
                such defense articles or services are essential to the 
                national security under defense coproduction 
                agreements; or
            (2) to--
                    (A) spare parts that are essential to United States 
                products or production;
                    (B) component parts, but not finished products, 
                that are essential to United States products or 
                production; or
                    (C) routine servicing and maintenance of products, 
                to the extent that alternative sources are not readily 
                or reasonably available.
    (c) Duration of Prohibition.--The prohibition in subsection (a) 
shall apply with respect to a person or entity (or successor person or 
entity)--
            (1) for a period of not less than 2 years beginning on the 
        date on which the prohibition is imposed; or
            (2) until the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
        determines and certifies to the congressional defense 
        committees that--
                    (A) the person or entity whose activities were the 
                basis for imposing the prohibition is no longer 
                engaging in such activities; and
                    (B) the Secretary has received reliable assurances 
                that such person or entity (or successor person or 
                entity) will not knowingly engage in such activities in 
                the future.
    (d) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
        prohibition in subsection (a) with respect to a procurement if 
        the Secretary determines that the procurement is essential to 
        the national security interests of the United States.
            (2) Notice.--Upon issuing a waiver under paragraph (1) with 
        respect to a procurement, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a notification that 
        identifies the person or entity involved, the nature of the 
        procurement, and the rationale for issuing the waiver.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign 
                Relations, and Homeland Security and Governmental 
                Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign 
                Affairs, and Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives

  Subtitle C--Amendments Relating to General Contracting Authorities, 
                      Procedures, and Limitations

SEC. 831. PILOT PROGRAM ON ACQUISITION OF MILITARY PURPOSE 
              NONDEVELOPMENTAL ITEMS.

    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a 
        pilot program to assess the feasability and advisability of 
        acquiring military purpose nondevelopmental items in accordance 
        with this section.
            (2) Scope of program.--Under the pilot program, the 
        Secretary may enter into contracts with nontraditional defense 
        contractors for the acquisition of military purpose 
        nondevelopmental items in accordance with the streamlined 
        procedures set forth in subsection (b).
    (b) Procedures.--Each contract entered into under the pilot 
program--
            (1) shall be a firm, fixed price contract, or a firm, fixed 
        price contract with an economic price adjustment clause;
            (2) shall be in an amount not in excess of $50,000,000, 
        including all options;
            (3) shall provide--
                    (A) for the delivery of an initial lot of 
                production quantities of completed items not later than 
                nine months after the date of the award of such 
                contract; and
                    (B) that failure to make delivery as provided for 
                under subparagraph (A) may result in the termination of 
                such contract for default; and
            (4) shall be--
                    (A) exempt from the requirement to provide cost or 
                pricing data under section 2306a of title 10, United 
                States Code, and the cost accounting standards under 
                section 26 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy 
                Act (41 U.S.C. 422); and
                    (B) subject to the requirement to provide data 
                other than certified cost or pricing data for the 
                purpose of price reasonableness determinations, as 
                provided in section 2306a(d) of title 10, United States 
                Code.
    (c) Treatment of Items as Developed Exclusively at Private 
Expense.--For purposes of this section, an item shall not be considered 
to be developed exclusively at private expense if development of the 
item was paid for in whole or in part through independent research and 
development costs or bid and proposal costs that have been reimbursed 
directly or indirectly by a Federal agency or have been submitted to a 
Federal agency for reimbursement.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Reports on program activities.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the end of the first fiscal year in which the pilot 
        program is in effect, and each year thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the pilot program. Each report shall set forth, for each 
        contract entered into under the pilot program in the preceding 
        fiscal year, the following:
                    (A) The contractor.
                    (B) The item or items to be acquired.
                    (C) The military purpose to be served by such item 
                or items.
                    (D) The amount of the contract.
                    (E) The actions taken by the Department of Defense 
                to ensure that the price paid for such item or items is 
                fair and reasonable.
            (2) Program assessment.--Not later than four years after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General 
        of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report setting forth the assessment of the 
        Comptroller General of the extent to which the pilot program--
                    (A) enabled the Department to acquire items that 
                otherwise might not have been available to the 
                Department;
                    (B) assisted the Department in the rapid 
                acquisition and fielding of capabilities needed to meet 
                urgent operational needs; and
                    (C) protected the interests of the United States in 
                paying fair and reasonable prices for the item or items 
                acquired.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``military purpose nondevelopmental item'' 
        mean a nondevelopmental item that meets a validated military 
        requirement, as determined in writing by the responsible 
        program manager, and has been developed exclusively at private 
        expense.
            (2) The term ``nondevelopmental item'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 4(13) of the Office of Federal 
        Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(13)).
            (3) The term ``nontraditional defense contractor'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 845(f) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (10 U.S.C. 2371 
        note).
            (4) The terms ``independent research and developments 
        costs'' and ``bid and proposal costs'' have the meaning given 
        such terms in section 31.205-18 of the Federal Acquisition 
        Regulation.
    (f) Sunset.--
            (1) In general.--The authority to carry out the pilot 
        program shall expire on the date that is five years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Continuation of current contracts.--The expiration 
        under paragraph (1) of the authority to carry out the pilot 
        program shall not affect the validity of any contract awarded 
        under the pilot program before the date of the expiration of 
        the pilot program under that paragraph.

SEC. 832. COMPETITION FOR PRODUCTION AND SUSTAINMENT AND RIGHTS IN 
              TECHNICAL DATA.

    (a) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance on 
the implementation of section 2320(e) of title 10, United States Code. 
Such guidance shall be designed to ensure that the United States--
            (1) preserves the option of competition for contracts for 
        the production and sustainment of systems or subsystems that 
        are developed exclusively with Federal funds or without 
        significant contribution by a contractor or subcontractor; and
            (2) is not required to pay more than once for the same 
        technical data.
    (b) Rights in Technical Data.--Section 2320(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``exclusively with 
        Federal funds'' and inserting ``exclusively with Federal funds 
        or without significant contribution by a contractor or 
        subcontractor'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(F)(i)--
                    (A) by redesignating clauses (I) and (II) as 
                clauses (II) and (III), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting before clause (II), as so 
                redesignated, the following new clause (I):
                            ``(I) rights in technical data described in 
                        subparagraph (A) for which a use or release 
                        restriction has been erroneously asserted by a 
                        contractor or subcontractor;''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``and `exclusively at private 
                expense''' and inserting ```exclusively at private 
                expense', and `significant contribution by a contractor 
                or subcontractor'''; and
                    (B) by striking ``for the purposes of definitions 
                under this paragraph'' and inserting ``for the purposes 
                of paragraph (2)(B)''.
    (c) Validation of Proprietary Data Restrictions.--
            (1) Repeal of delimiting period on challenges of 
        restrictions.--Section 2321(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.
            (2) Guidance on challenges to restrictions.--Not later than 
        180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance on the circumstances 
        under which a challenge to an asserted use or release 
        restriction may be made after the end of the three-year period 
        described in section 2321(c)(2) of title 10, United States 
        Code. Such guidance shall be designed to ensure that such 
        challenges are made only in cases where there is strong 
        evidence that the asserted restriction is inconsistent with the 
        requirements of section 2320, United States Code.

SEC. 833. ELIMINATION OF SUNSET DATE FOR PROTESTS OF TASK AND DELIVERY 
              ORDER CONTRACTS.

    Section 2304c(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 834. INCLUSION OF OPTION AMOUNTS IN LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY OF 
              THE DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY TO CARRY 
              OUT CERTAIN PROTOTYPE PROJECTS.

    Section 845 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1994 (10 U.S.C. 2371 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``(including 
                all options)'' after ``not in excess of $100,000,000''; 
                and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``(including 
                all options)'' after ``in excess of $100,000,000''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(3)(A), by inserting ``(including all 
        options)'' after ``does not exceed $50,000,000''.

SEC. 835. ENHANCEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY TO RESPOND TO 
              COMBAT AND SAFETY EMERGENCIES THROUGH RAPID ACQUISITION 
              AND DEPLOYMENT OF URGENTLY NEEDED SUPPLIES.

    (a) Requirement To Establish Procedures.--Subsection (a) of section 
806 of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2003 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``items'' and inserting ``supplies''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (1):
            ``(1)(A) currently under development by the Department of 
        Defense or available from the commercial sector; or
            ``(B) require only minor modifications to supplies 
        described in subparagraph (A); and''.
    (b) Issues To Be Addressed.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``items'' and 
        inserting ``supplies'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``items'' and inserting ``supplies'';
                    (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking ``an 
                item'' and inserting ``the supplies''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and 
                utilization'' after ``deployment''.
    (c) Response to Combat Emergencies.--Subsection (c) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``equipment'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``supplies'';
            (2) by striking ``combat capability'' each place it 
        appears;
            (3) by striking ``that has resulted in combat fatalities'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``that has resulted in 
        combat casualties, or is likely to result in imminent combat 
        casualties'';
            (4) in paragraph (1), by striking ``is'' and inserting 
        ``are'';
            (5) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``is'' each 
                place it appears and inserting ``are''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``fatalities'' 
                at the end and inserting ``casualties'';
            (6) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking the first sentence; and
                    (B) by inserting ``if the Secretary makes a written 
                determination that the use of such funds is necessary 
                to address the deficiency concerned in a timely manner. 
                The authority of this section may not be used to 
                acquire supplies in an amount aggregating more than 
                $200,000,000 during any fiscal year.'' after ``for that 
                fiscal year'';
            (7) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by inserting ``, in consultation with the 
                Director of the Office of Management and Budget,'' 
                after ``shall'';
                    (B) by inserting ``or (3)'' after ``paragraph 
                (1)''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Each such notice'' and inserting 
                ``For each such determination, the notice under the 
                preceding sentence''; and
            (8) in paragraph (5), by striking ``that equipment'' and 
        inserting ``the supplies concerned''.
    (d) Waiver of Certain Statues and Regulations.--Subsection (d)(1) 
of such section is amended by striking ``equipment'' in subparagraphs 
(A), (B), and (C) and inserting ``supplies''.
    (e) Testing Requirement.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``an item'' and inserting ``the supplies''; 
                and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``of the 
                item'' and all that follows through ``requirements 
                document'' and inserting ``of the supplies in meeting 
                the original requirements for the supplies (as stated 
                in a statement of the urgent operational need'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``an item'' and inserting 
                ``supplies''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the item'' and inserting ``the 
                supplies''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``If items'' and inserting ``If the 
                supplies''; and
                    (B) by striking ``items'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``supplies''.

                     Subtitle D--Contractor Matters

SEC. 841. CONTRACTOR BUSINESS SYSTEMS.

    (a) Improvement Program.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
program for the improvement of contractor business systems to ensure 
that such systems provide timely, reliable information for the 
management of Department of Defense programs by the contractor and by 
the Department.
    (b) Approval or Disapproval of Business Systems.--The program 
developed pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) include system requirements for each type of contractor 
        business system covered by the program;
            (2) establish a process for reviewing contractor business 
        systems and identifying significant deficiencies in such 
        systems;
            (3) identify officials of the Department of Defense who are 
        responsible for the approval or disapproval of contractor 
        business systems;
            (4) provide that a contractor business system that meets 
        the system requirements established under this subsection 
        without significant deficiencies may be relied upon as an 
        approved contractor business system for purposes of program 
        management; and
            (5) provide for--
                    (A) the disapproval of contractor business systems 
                that have significant deficiencies; and
                    (B) reduced reliance on, and enhanced scrutiny of, 
                data provided by contractor business systems that have 
                been disapproved.
    (c) Remedial Actions.--The program developed pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall provide the following:
            (1) In the event a contractor business system is 
        disapproved pursuant to subsection (b)(5), appropriate 
        officials of the Department of Defense will be available to 
        work with the contractor to develop a corrective action plan 
        defining specific actions to be taken to address the 
        significant deficiencies identified in the system and a 
        schedule for the implementation of such actions.
            (2) The Department may withhold up to ten percent of 
        progress payments, performance-based payments, and interim 
        payments under covered contracts from a covered contractor, as 
        needed to protect the interests of the Department and to 
        incentivize compliance, if one or more of the contractor 
        business systems of the contractor has been disapproved 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(5).
            (3) The amount of funds to be withheld under paragraph (2) 
        shall be reduced if a contractor adopts and an effective 
        corrective action plan pursuant to paragraph (1) and is 
        effectively implementing such plan.
    (d) Guidance and Training.--The program developed pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall provide guidance and training to appropriate 
government officials on the data that is produced by contractor 
business systems and the manner in which such data should be used to 
effectively manage Department of Defense programs.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``contractor business system'' means an 
        accounting system, estimating system, purchasing system, earned 
        value management system, material management and accounting 
        system, or property management system of a contractor.
            (2) The term ``covered contractor'' means a contractor that 
        is subject to the cost accounting standards under section 26 of 
        the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 422).
            (3) The term ``covered contract'' means a cost-
        reimbursement contract, incentive-type contract, time-and-
        materials contract, and labor-hour contract.
            (4) The term ``significant deficiency'', in the case of a 
        contractor business system, means a shortcoming in the system 
        that undermines the ability of officials of the Department of 
        Defense and the contractor to rely upon information produced by 
        the system that is needed for management purposes.

SEC. 842. OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF CONTRACTORS PERFORMING 
              PRIVATE SECURITY FUNCTIONS IN AREAS OF COMBAT OPERATIONS.

    (a) Enhancement of Oversight and Accountability.--Section 862 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 
2302 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``comply with 
                regulations'' and inserting ``ensure that the 
                contractor and all employees of the contractor or any 
                subcontractor who are responsible for performing 
                private security functions under such contract comply 
                with regulations'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``comply with'' and all 
                        that follows through ``in accordance with'' and 
                        inserting ``ensure that the contractor and all 
                        employees of the contractor or any 
                        subcontractor who are responsible for 
                        performing private security functions under 
                        such contract comply with''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(D) ensure that the contract clause is included 
                in subcontracts awarded to any subcontractor at any 
                tier who is responsible for performing private security 
                functions under the contract.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(c) Oversight.--It shall be the responsibility of the head of the 
contracting activity responsible for each covered contract to ensure 
that the contracting activity takes appropriate steps to assign 
sufficient oversight personnel to the contract to--
            ``(1) ensure that the contractor and any subcontractors 
        responsible for performing private security functions under 
        such contract comply with the regulatory requirements 
        prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) and the contract 
        requirements established pursuant to subsection (b); and
            ``(2) make the determinations required by subsection (d).
    ``(d) Remedies.--The failure of a contractor or subcontractor under 
a covered contract to comply with the requirements of the regulations 
prescribed under subsection (a) or the contract clause inserted in a 
covered contract pursuant to subsection (b), as determined by the 
contracting officer for the covered contract--
            ``(1) shall be included in appropriate databases of past 
        performance and considered in any responsibility determination 
        or evaluation of the past performance of the contractor or 
        subcontractor for the purpose of a contract award decision, as 
        provided in section 6(j) of the Office of Federal Procurement 
        Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 405(j));
            ``(2) in the case of an award fee contract--
                    ``(A) shall be considered in any evaluation of 
                contract performance by the contractor or subcontractor 
                for the relevant award fee period; and
                    ``(B) may be a basis for reducing or denying award 
                fees for such period, or for recovering all or part of 
                award fees previously paid for such period; and
            ``(3) in the case of a failure to comply that is severe, 
        prolonged, or repeated--
                    ``(A) shall be referred to the suspension or 
                debarment official for the appropriate agency; and
                    ``(B) may be a basis for suspension or debarment of 
                the contractor or subcontractor.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--The duty of a contractor or 
subcontractor under a covered contract to comply with the requirements 
of the regulations prescribed under subsection (a) and the contract 
clause inserted into a covered contract pursuant to subsection (b), and 
the availability of the remedies provided in subsection (d), shall not 
be reduced or diminished by the failure of a higher or lower tier 
contractor under such contract to comply with such requirements, or by 
a failure of the contracting activity to provide the oversight required 
by subsection (c).''.
    (b) Revised Regulations and Contract Clause.--
            (1) Deadline for regulations.--Not later than 60 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall revise the regulations prescribed pursuant to section 862 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
        to incorporate the requirements of the amendments made by 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Commencement of applicability of revisions.--The 
        revision of regulations under paragraph (1) shall apply to the 
        following:
                    (A) Any contract that is awarded on or after the 
                date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act.
                    (B) Any task or delivery order that is entered on 
                or after the date that is 120 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act pursuant to a contract that 
                is awarded before, on, or after the date that is 120 
                days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Commencement of inclusion of contract clause.--A 
        contract clause that reflects the revision of regulations 
        required by the amendments made by subsection (a) shall be 
        inserted, as required by required by such section 862, into the 
        following:
                    (A) Any contract that is awarded on or after the 
                date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act.
                    (B) Any task or delivery order that is entered on 
                or after the date that is 120 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act pursuant to a contract that 
                is awarded before, on, or after the date that is 120 
                days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 843. ENHANCEMENTS OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO REDUCE 
              OR DENY AWARD FEES TO COMPANIES FOUND TO JEOPARDIZE THE 
              HEALTH OR SAFETY OF GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL.

    (a) Expansion of Dispositions Subject to Authority.--Section 823 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2412; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(5) A final determination of contractor fault by the 
        Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (d).'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Determinations of Contractor Fault by Secretary of Defense.--
            ``(1)  In general.--In any case described by paragraph (2), 
        the Secretary of Defense shall--
                    ``(A) provide for an expeditious independent 
                investigation of the causes of the serious bodily 
                injury or death alleged to have been caused by the 
                contractor as described in that paragraph; and
                    ``(B) make a final determination, pursuant to 
                procedures established by the Secretary for purposes of 
                this subsection, whether the contractor, in the 
                performance of a covered contract, caused such serious 
                bodily injury or death through gross negligence or with 
                reckless disregard for the safety of civilian or 
                military personnel of the Government.
            ``(2) Covered cases.--A case described in this paragraph is 
        any case in which the Secretary has reason to believe that a 
        contractor, in the performance of a covered contract, may have 
        caused the serious bodily injury or death of any civilian or 
        military personnel of the Government.
            ``(3) Construction of determination.--A final determination 
        under this subsection may be used only for the purpose of 
        evaluating contractor performance, and shall not be 
        determinative of fault for any other purpose.''.
    (b) Definition of Contractor.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (e) of 
such section, as redesignated by subsection (a)(2) of this section, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) The term `contractor' means a company awarded a 
        covered contract and a subcontractor at any tier under such 
        contract.''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Subsection (c) of such section is further 
amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``subsection 
(a)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)''.
    (d) Inclusion of Determinations of Contractor Fault in Database for 
Federal Agency Contract and Grant Officers and Suspension and Debarment 
Officials.--Section 872(c)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4556) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) A final determination of contractor fault by 
                the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 823(d) of 
                the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2010 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note).''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The requirements of section 823 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, as amended by 
subsections (a) through (c), shall apply with respect to the following:
            (1) Any contract entered into on or after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Any task order or delivery order awarded on or after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act under a contract entered 
        into before, on, or after that date.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 851. EXTENSION OF ACQUISITION WORKFORCE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
              DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    Section 4308(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1996 (10 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by striking 
``September 30, 2012'' and inserting ``September 30, 2017''.

SEC. 852. NON-AVAILABILITY EXCEPTION FROM BUY AMERICAN REQUIREMENTS FOR 
              PROCUREMENT OF HAND OR MEASURING TOOLS.

    Section 2533a(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``subsection (b)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)''.

SEC. 853. FIVE-YEAR EXTENSION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MENTOR-PROTEGE 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension of Program.--Subsection (j) of section 831 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 2302 
note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2015''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2018''.
    (b) Extension of Annual Report Requirement.--Subsection (l)(3) of 
such section is amended by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2015''.

SEC. 854. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Extension of SBIR Program.--Section 9(m)(2) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(m)(2)) is amended by striking ``September 
30, 2010'' and inserting ``September 30, 2018''.
    (b) Extension of STTR Program.--Section 9(n)(1)(A)(ii) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(n)(1)(A)(ii)) is amended by striking 
``2010'' and inserting ``2018''.
    (c) Extension and Expansion of Commercialization Pilot Program.--
Section 9(y) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(y)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (4), by inserting ``and the 
        Small Business Technology Transfer Program'' after ``Small 
        Business Innovation Research Program''; and
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking ``2010'' and inserting 
        ``2018''.

SEC. 855. FOUR-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEST PROGRAM FOR NEGOTIATION OF 
              COMPREHENSIVE SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLANS.

    (a) Four-year Extension.--Subsection (e) of section 834 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (15 
U.S.C. 637 note) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2014''.
    (b) Additional Report.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended 
by inserting ``and March 1, 2012,'' after ``March 1, 1994,''.

SEC. 856. REPORT ON SUPPLY OF FIRE RESISTANT FIBER FOR PRODUCTION OF 
              MILITARY UNIFORMS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 15, 2011, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
report on the supply chain for fire resistant fiber for the production 
of military uniforms.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
at a minimum, an analysis of the following:
            (1) The current and anticipated sources of fire resistant 
        rayon fiber for the production of military uniforms.
            (2) The extent to which fire resistant rayon fiber has 
        unique properties that provide advantages for the production of 
        military uniforms.
            (3) The extent to which the efficient procurement of fire 
        resistant rayon fiber for the production of military uniforms 
        is impeded by existing statutory or regulatory requirements.
            (4) The actions the Department of Defense has taken to 
        identify alternatives to fire resistant rayon fiber for the 
        production of military uniforms.
            (5) The extent to which such alternatives provide an 
        adequate substitute for fire resistant rayon fiber for the 
        production of military uniforms.
            (6) The impediments to the use of such alternatives, and 
        the actions the Department has taken to overcome such 
        impediments.
            (7) The extent to which it would be practical and 
        appropriate for the Department to use performance-based 
        requirements for fire resistant fiber, rather than requiring 
        the use of fire resistant rayon fiber, for the production of 
        military uniforms.
            (8) The extent to which any modifications to section 2533a 
        of title 10, United States Code (commonly referred to as the 
        ``Berry amendment''), or section 829 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
        Stat. 229; 10 U.S.C. 2533a note) may be necessary or advisable 
        to ensure the efficient acquisition of fire resistant fiber for 
        the production of military uniforms.
            (9) The extent to which uncertainty regarding the future 
        availability of fire resistant rayon results in instability or 
        inefficiency for elements of the United States textile industry 
        that utilize fire resistant rayon, and the extent to which that 
        instability or inefficiency results in less efficient business 
        practices, impedes investment and innovation, and thereby 
        results or may result in higher costs, delayed delivery, or a 
        lower quality of product delivered to the Government.
    (c) Recommendations.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include such recommendations for further actions to address the matters 
covered by the report as the Comptroller General considers appropriate.

SEC. 857. CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT OF CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Defense Science Board Review of Organization, Training, and 
Planning.--
            (1) Review.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall direct 
        the Defense Science Board to carry out a review of Department 
        of Defense organization, doctrine, training, and planning for 
        contractor logistics support of contingency operations.
            (2) Matters to be addressed.--The matters addressed by the 
        review required by paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, 
        the following:
                    (A) Department of Defense policies and procedures 
                for planning for contractor logistics support of 
                contingency operations.
                    (B) Department organization and staffing for the 
                implementation of such policies and procedures.
                    (C) The development of Department doctrine for 
                contractor logistics support of contingency operations.
                    (D) The training of Department military and 
                civilian personnel for the planning, management, and 
                oversight of contractor logistics support of 
                contingency operations.
                    (E) The extent to which the Department should rely 
                upon contractor logistics support in future contingency 
                operations, and the risks associated with reliance on 
                such support.
                    (F) Any logistics support functions for contingency 
                operations for which the Department should establish or 
                retain an organic capability.
                    (G) The scope and level of detail on contractor 
                logistics support of contingency operations that is 
                currently included in operational plans, and that 
                should be included in operational plans.
                    (H) Contracting mechanisms and contract vehicles 
                that are currently used, and should be used, to provide 
                contractor logistics support of contingency operations.
                    (I) Department organization and staffing for the 
                management and oversight of contractor logistics 
                support of contingency operations.
                    (J) Actions that could be taken to improve 
                Department management and oversight of contractors 
                providing logistics support of contingency operations.
                    (K) The extent to which logistics support of 
                contingency operations has been, and should be, 
                provided by subcontractors, and the advantages and 
                disadvantages of reliance upon subcontractors for that 
                purpose.
                    (L) The extent to which logistics support of 
                contingency operations has been, and should be, 
                provided by local nationals and third country 
                nationals, and the advantages and disadvantages of 
                reliance upon such sources for that purpose.
            (3) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the result of the 
        review required by paragraph (1). The report shall include the 
        findings and recommendations of the Defense Science Board 
        pursuant to the review, including such recommendations for 
        legislative or administrative action as the Board considers 
        appropriate, together with any comments the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (b) Inclusion of Contractor Support Requirements in Planning 
Documents.--
            (1) Elements in qdr reports to congress.--Section 118(d) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (D), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) the roles and responsibilities that would be 
                discharged by contractors.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (6), by striking ``manpower and 
                sustainment'' and inserting ``manpower, sustainment, 
                and contractor support''
                    (C) in paragraph (8), by inserting ``, and the 
                scope of contractor support,'' after ``Defense 
                Agencies''
            (2) Chairman of joint chiefs of staff assessments of 
        contractor support of armed forces.--
                    (A) Assessments under contingency planning.--
                Paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of section 153 of such 
                title is amended--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and 
                        (D) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; 
                        and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (B) 
                        the following new subparagraph (C):
            ``(C) Identifying the support functions that are likely to 
        require contractor performance under such contingency plans, 
        and the risks associated with the assignment of such functions 
        to contractors.''.
                    (B) Assessments under advice on requirements, 
                programs, and budget.--Paragraph (4)(E) of such 
                subsection is amended by inserting ``and contractor 
                support'' after ``area of manpower''.
                    (C) Assessments for biennial review of national 
                military strategy.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
                amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end 
                        the following new subparagraph:
            ``(J) Assessment of the requirements for contractor support 
        of the armed forces in conducting peacetime training, 
        peacekeeping, overseas contingency operations, and major combat 
        operations, and the risks associated with such support.''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``and 
                        the levels of support from allies and other 
                        friendly nations'' and inserting ``the levels 
                        of support from allies and other friendly 
                        nations, and the levels of contractor 
                        support''.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

              Subtitle A--Department of Defense Management

SEC. 901. REPEAL OF PERSONNEL LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN 
              DEFENSE-WIDE ORGANIZATIONS AND REVISIONS TO LIMITATION 
              APPLICABLE TO THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Repeal of Personnel Limitations Applicable to Defense-wide 
Organizations.--
            (1) Defense agencies and dod field activities.--Section 194 
        of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
            (2) Combatant commands.--Section 601 of the Goldwater-
        Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 (10 
        U.S.C. 194 note) is repealed.
    (b) Revisions to Personnel Limitation Applicable to Office of the 
Secretary of Defense.--
            (1) Removal of washington headquarters service from osd 
        limit.--(A) Subsection (a) of section 143 of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``3,767'' and inserting 
        ``3,370''.
            (B) Subsection (b) of such section is amended to read as 
        follows:
    ``(b) OSD Personnel Defined.--In this section, the term `OSD 
personnel' means members of the armed forces and civilian employees of 
the Department of Defense who are assigned or detailed to permanent 
duty in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.''.
            (2) Exemption for national emergencies.--Such section is 
        further amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(d) Exemption During Time of War or National Emergency.--The 
limitation in subsection (a) does not apply in time of war or during a 
national emergency declared by the President or Congress.''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 8 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 194.
            (2) Section 1111.--Section 1111 of the Duncan Hunter 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
        Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 143 note) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``For fiscal year 2009 and 
                        fiscal years thereafter,'' and inserting ``For 
                        any fiscal year,'';
                            (ii) by striking ``194,''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Code, 
                        or'' and all that follows through ``or 
                        otherwise'' and inserting ``Code, or 
                        otherwise''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``For fiscal year 2009 and 
                        fiscal years thereafter,'' and inserting ``For 
                        any fiscal year,'';
                            (ii) by striking ``194,'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the'' 
                        after ``in accordance with''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (2), by striking ``any'' 
                        after ``work, for''.

SEC. 902. REORGANIZATION OF OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO CARRY 
              OUT REDUCTION REQUIRED BY LAW IN NUMBER OF DEPUTY UNDER 
              SECRETARIES OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Redesignation of Certain Positions in Office of Secretary of 
Defense.--
            (1) Redesignation.--Positions in the Office of the 
        Secretary of Defense are hereby redesignated as follows:
                    (A) The Director of Defense Research and 
                Engineering is redesignated as the Assistant Secretary 
                of Defense for Research and Engineering.
                    (B) The Director of Operational Energy Plans and 
                Programs is redesignated as the Assistant Secretary of 
                Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs.
                    (C) The Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for 
                Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs is 
                redesignated as the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs.
            (2) References.--Any reference in any law, rule, 
        regulation, paper, or other record of the United States to an 
        office of the Department of Defense redesignated by paragraph 
        (1) shall be deemed to be a reference to such office as so 
        redesignated.
    (b) Amendments to Chapter 4 of Title 10 Relating to 
Reorganization.--
            (1) Repeal of separate principal deputy under secretary of 
        defense provisions.--Sections 133a, 134a, and 136a of title 10, 
        United States Code, are repealed.
            (2) Components of osd.--Subsection (b) of section 131 of 
        such title is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) The Office of the Secretary of Defense is composed of the 
following:
            ``(1) The Deputy Secretary of Defense.
            ``(2) The Under Secretaries of Defense, as follows:
                    ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
                    ``(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
                    ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
                    ``(D) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel 
                and Readiness.
                    ``(E) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Intelligence.
            ``(3) The Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department 
        of Defense.
            ``(4) Other officers who are appointed by the President, by 
        and with the advice and consent of the Senate and who report 
        directly to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary without 
        intervening authority, as follows:
                    ``(A) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
                Evaluation.
                    ``(B) The Director of Operational Test and 
                Evaluation.
                    ``(C) The General Counsel of the Department of 
                Defense.
                    ``(D) The Inspector General of the Department of 
                Defense.
            ``(5) The Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.
            ``(6) The Assistant Secretaries of Defense.
            ``(7) Other officials provided for by law, as follows:
                    ``(A) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Developmental Test and Evaluation appointed pursuant to 
                section 139b(a) of this title.
                    ``(B) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Systems Engineering appointed pursuant to section 
                139b(b) of this title.
                    ``(C) The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Manufacturing and Industrial Base Policy appointed 
                pursuant to section 139c of this title.
                    ``(D) The Director of Small Business Programs 
                appointed pursuant to section 144 of this title.
                    ``(E) The Director of Defense Prisoner of War/
                Missing Personnel Oversight under section 1501(a) of 
                this title.
                    ``(F) The Director of Family Policy under section 
                1781 of this title.
                    ``(G) The Director of the Office of Corrosion 
                Policy and Oversight assigned pursuant to section 
                2228(a) of this title.
                    ``(H) The official designated under section 2438(a) 
                of this title to have responsibility for conducting and 
                overseeing performance assessments and root cause 
                analyses for major defense acquisition programs.
            ``(8) Such other offices and officials as may be 
        established by law or the Secretary of Defense may establish or 
        designate in the Office.''.
            (3) Principal deputy under secretaries of defense.--Section 
        137a of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsections (a)(1), (b), and (d), by 
                striking ``Deputy Under'' and inserting ``Principal 
                Deputy Under'';
                    (B) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``(A) The'' 
                and all that follows through ``(5) of subsection (c)'' 
                and inserting ``The Principal Deputy Under Secretaries 
                of Defense'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and 
                        (5), by striking ``One of the Deputy'' and 
                        inserting ``One of the Principal Deputy'';
                            (ii) in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), by 
                        striking ``appointed'' and all that follows 
                        through ``this title'';
                            (iii) in paragraphs (4) and (5), by 
                        striking ``shall be'' and inserting ``is''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (5), by adding inserting 
                        before the period at the end the following: ``, 
                        who shall be appointed from among persons who 
                        have extensive expertise in intelligence 
                        matters''; and
                    (D) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the 
                following new sentence: ``The Principal Deputy Under 
                Secretaries shall take precedence among themselves in 
                the order prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.''.
            (4) Assistant secretaries of defense generally.--Section 
        138 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``12'' 
                        and inserting ``16''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``(A) 
                        The'' and all that follows through ``The 
                        other'' and inserting ``The'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), and 
                        (6), by striking ``shall be'' and inserting 
                        ``is'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (7), by striking 
                        ``appointed pursuant to section 138a of this 
                        title''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new paragraphs:
            ``(8) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering. In addition 
        to any duties and powers prescribed under paragraph (1), the 
        Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
        shall have the duties specified in section 138b of this title.
            ``(9) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs. 
        In addition to any duties and powers prescribed under paragraph 
        (1), the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy 
        Plans and Programs shall have the duties specified in section 
        138c of this title.
            ``(10) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological 
        Defense Programs. In addition to any duties and powers 
        prescribed under paragraph (1), the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs 
        shall have the duties specified in section 138d of this 
        title.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (d), by striking ``and the 
                Director of Defense Research and Engineering'' and 
                inserting ``the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the 
                Department of Defense, the officials serving in 
                positions specified in section 131(b)(4) of this title, 
                and the Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of 
                Defense''.
            (5) Assistant secretary for logistics and materiel 
        readiness.--Section 138a(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``There is a'' and inserting 
                ``The''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, appointed from civilian life by 
                the President, by and with the advice and consent of 
                the Senate. The Assistant Secretary''.
            (6) Assistant secretary for research and engineering.--
        Section 139a of such title is transferred so as to appear after 
        section 138a, redesignated as section 138b, and amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a);
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as 
                subsections (a) and (b), respectively;
                    (C) in subsection (a), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``Director of Defense Research and 
                Engineering'' and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of 
                Defense for Research and Engineering''; and
                    (D) in subsection (b), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``Director of Defense Research and 
                        Engineering,'' and inserting ``Assistant 
                        Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                        Engineering,''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``Director'' and inserting ``Assistant 
                        Secretary''.
            (7) Assistant secretary for operational energy plans and 
        programs.--Section 139b of such title is transferred so as to 
        appear after section 138b (as transferred and redesignated by 
        paragraph (6)), redesignated as section 138c, and amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``There is a'' 
                and all that follows through ``The Director'' and 
                inserting ``The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Operational Energy Plans and Programs'';
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``Assistant Secretary'';
                    (C) in subsection (d)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``Not later than'' and all 
                        that follows through ``military departments'' 
                        and inserting ``The Secretary of each military 
                        department'';
                            (ii) by striking ``who will'' and inserting 
                        ``who shall''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``so designated'' after 
                        ``The officials''; and
                    (D) in subsection (d)(4), by striking ``The 
                initial'' and all that follows through ``updates to the 
                strategy'' and inserting ``Updates to the strategy 
                required by paragraph (1)''.
            (8) Assistant secretary for nuclear, chemical, and 
        biological defense programs.--Section 142 of such title is 
        transferred so as to appear after section 138c (as redesignated 
        and transferred by paragraph (7)), redesignated as section 
        138d, and amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a);
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection 
                (a) and in that subsection, as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``The Assistant to the Secretary'' and 
                inserting ``The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the 
                following new subsection (b):
    ``(b) The Assistant Secretary may communicate views on issues 
within the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary directly to the 
Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense without 
obtaining the approval or concurrence of any other official within the 
Department of Defense.''.
    (c) Deputy Chief Management Officer.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is further amended by inserting after section 132 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 132a. Deputy Chief Management Officer
    ``(a) Appointment.--There is a Deputy Chief Management Officer of 
the Department of Defense, appointed from civilian life by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Deputy Chief Management Officer 
assists the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the Deputy Secretary's 
capacity as Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense under 
section 132(c) of this title.
    ``(c) Precedence.--The Deputy Chief Management Officer takes 
precedence in the Department of Defense after the Secretary of Defense, 
the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the military 
departments, and the Under Secretaries of Defense.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 132(c) of such title is 
        amended by striking the second sentence.
    (d) Senior Official Responsible for Performance Assessments and 
Root Cause Analyses of MDAPs.--Section 103 of the Weapon Systems 
Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-23; 123 Stat. 1715; 10 
U.S.C. 2430 note) is transferred to chapter 144 of title 10, United 
States Code, inserted so as to appear after section 2437, redesignated 
as section 2438, and amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``section 2433a(a)(1) 
        of title 10, United States Code (as added by section 206(a) of 
        this Act)'' and inserting ``section 2433a(a)(1) of this 
        title'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(5)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 2433a of title 10, United 
                States Code (as so added)'' and inserting ``section 
                2433a of this title''; and
                    (B) by striking ``prior to'' both places it appears 
                and inserting ``before'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``section 2433a of title 
        10, United States Code (as so added)'' and inserting ``section 
        2433a of this title''; and
            (4) in subsection (f), by striking ``beginning in 2010,''.
    (e) Redesignation of DDTE as Deputy Assistant Secretary for 
Developmental Test and Evaluation and DSE as Deputy Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Systems Engineering.--Section 139c of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Director of Developmental Test and 
        Evaluation'' each place it appears and inserting ``Deputy 
        Assistant Secretary of Defense for Developmental Test and 
        Evaluation'';
            (2) by striking ``Director of Systems Engineering'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Systems Engineering'';
            (3) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection heading and 
                inserting ``Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Developmental Test and Evaluation.--'';
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                in paragraphs (2), (3), and (6) and inserting ``Deputy 
                Assistant Secretary'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking the paragraph 
                heading and inserting ``Coordination with deputy 
                assistant secretary of defense for systems 
                engineering.--'';
                    (D) in paragraph (5), by striking ``Director'' in 
                the matter preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting 
                ``Deputy Assistant Secretary''; and
                    (E) in paragraph (6), by striking ``Director's'' 
                and inserting ``Deputy Assistant Secretary's''; and
            (4) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection heading and 
                inserting ``Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Systems Engineering.--'';
                    (B) by striking ``Director'' each place it appears 
                in paragraphs (2), (3), (5), and (6) and inserting 
                ``Deputy Assistant Secretary'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking the paragraph 
                heading and inserting ``Coordination with deputy 
                assistant secretary of defense for developmental test 
                and evaluation.--''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (6), by striking ``Director's'' 
                and inserting ``Deputy Assistant Secretary's''.
    (f) Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manufacturing and 
Industrial Base Policy.--
            (1) Reorganization of certain provisions within chapter 4 
        to account for other transfers of provisions.--Chapter 4 of 
        title 10, United States Code, is further amended by 
        redesignating sections 139c and 139d (as amended by subsection 
        (e)) as sections 139a and 139b, respectively.
            (2) Deputy assistant secretary.--Such chapter is further 
        amended by inserting after section 139b, as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), the following new section 139c:
``Sec. 139c. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manufacturing 
              and Industrial Base Policy
    ``(a) Appointment.--There is a Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Manufacturing and Industrial Base Policy, who shall be 
appointed by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics and shall report to the Under Secretary.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense 
for Manufacturing and Industrial Base Policy shall be the principal 
advisor to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
and Logistics in the performance of the Under Secretary's duties 
relating to the following:
            ``(1) Establishing policies of the Department of Defense 
        for maintenance of the defense industrial base of the United 
        States.
            ``(2) Executing the authorities of the Manufacturing 
        Technology Program under section 2521 of this title.
            ``(3) Establishing the national security objectives 
        concerning the national technology and industrial base required 
        under section 2501 of this title.
            ``(4) Executing the national defense program for analysis 
        of the national technology and industrial base required under 
        section 2503 of this title.
            ``(5) Performing the national technology and industrial 
        base periodic defense capability assessments required under 
        section 2505 of this title.
            ``(6) Establishing the technology and industrial base 
        policy guidance required under section 2506 of this title.
            ``(7) Maintaining the defense industrial base information 
        system required under section 722 of the Defense Production Act 
        of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2171).
            ``(8) Executing other applicable authorities provided under 
        the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 et 
        seq.).
            ``(9) Establishing policies related to international 
        technology security and export control issues.
            ``(10) Establishing policies related industrial independent 
        research and development programs under section 2372 of this 
        title.
            ``(11) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense or 
        the Under Secretary shall prescribe.''.
    (g) Clarification of Head of Office for Missing Personnel.--Section 
1501(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentence: ``The office shall be 
        headed by the Director of Defense Prisoner of War/Missing 
        Person Oversight.''; and
            (2) by striking ``the office'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``the Director''.
    (h) Clarification of Head of Office for Family Policy.--Section 
1781 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentence: ``The office shall be 
        headed by the Director of Family Policy, who shall report to 
        the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management and 
        Personnel.''; and
            (2) by striking ``the Office'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``the Director''.
    (i) Modification of Statutory Limitation on Number of Deputy Under 
Secretaries of Defense.--
            (1) Delay in limitation on number of dusds.--Section 
        906(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2426; 10 U.S.C. 137a 
        note) is amended by striking ``January 1, 2011'' and inserting 
        ``January 1, 2015''.
            (2) Temporary authority for additional dusds.--During the 
        period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
        ending on January 1, 2015, the Secretary of Defense may, in the 
        Secretary's discretion, appoint not more than five Deputy Under 
        Secretaries of Defense in addition to the five Principal Deputy 
        Under Secretaries of Defense authorized by section 137a of 
        title 10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (b)(3)).
            (3) Report on plan for reorganization of osd.--
                    (A) Report required.--Not later than September 15, 
                2013, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
                Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives a report setting forth a plan 
                for the realignment of the organizational structure of 
                the Office of the Secretary of Defense to comply with 
                the requirement of section 906(a)(2) of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, as 
                amended by paragraph (1).
                    (B) Elements.--In preparing the report required by 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider, at a 
                minimum, the feasibility of taking the following 
                actions on or before January 1, 2015:
                            (i) A merger of the position of Deputy 
                        Under Secretary of Defense (Installations and 
                        Environment) and the position of Assistant 
                        Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy 
                        Plans and Programs (as established in 
                        accordance with the amendments made by 
                        subsection (b)(7)) into a single Assistant 
                        Secretary position.
                            (ii) A realignment of positions within the 
                        Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Policy to eliminate the position of Deputy 
                        Under Secretary of Defense (Strategy, Plans, 
                        and Forces).
    (j) Other Conforming Amendments to Title 10.--
            (1) Section 179(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking 
                ``Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and 
                Chemical and Biological Defense Programs'' and 
                inserting ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, 
                Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``that Assistant 
                to the Secretary'' and inserting ``Assistant 
                Secretary''.
            (2) Section 2272 of such title is amended by striking 
        ``Director of Defense Research and Engineering'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering''.
            (3) Section 2365 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Director of 
                Defense Research and Engineering'' and inserting 
                ``Assistant Secretary'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``Director'' 
                and inserting ``Assistant Secretary'';
                    (C) in subsection (d)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``Director of Defense 
                        Research and Engineering'' and inserting 
                        ``Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research 
                        and Engineering''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Director may'' and 
                        inserting ``Assistant Secretary may''; and
                    (D) in subsection (e), by striking ``Director'' and 
                inserting ``Assistant Secretary''.
            (4) Sections 2350a(g)(3), 2366b(a)(3)(D), 2374a(a), and 
        2517(a) of such title are amended by striking ``Director of 
        Defense Research and Engineering'' and inserting ``Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.
            (5) Section 2902(b) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Deputy Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Science and Technology'' and 
                inserting ``official within the Office of the Assistant 
                Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering who 
                is responsible for science and technology''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Deputy Under 
                Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``official within 
                the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics who is''.
    (k) Section Heading and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading amendments.--
                    (A) The heading of section 137a of title 10, United 
                States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 137a. Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense''.
                    (B) The heading of section 138b of such title, as 
                transferred and redesignated by subsection (b)(6), is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 138b. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and 
              Engineering''.
                    (C) The heading of section 138c of such title, as 
                transferred and redesignated by subsection (b)(7), is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 138c. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy 
              Plans and Programs''.
                    (D) The heading of section 138d of such title, as 
                transferred and redesignated by subsection (b)(8), is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 138d. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and 
              Biological Defense Programs''.
                    (E) The section heading of section 139b of such 
                title, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1), is amended 
                to read as follows:
``Sec. 139b. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Developmental 
              Test and Evaluation; Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
              Defense for Systems Engineering: joint guidance''.
                    (F) The heading of section 2438 of such title, as 
                transferred and redesignated by subsection (d), is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2438. Performance assessments and root cause analyses''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) The table of sections at the beginning of 
                chapter 4 of such title is amended--
                            (i) by inserting after the item relating to 
                        section 132 the following new item:

``132a. Deputy Chief Management Officer.'';
                            (ii) by striking the items relating to 
                        sections 133a, 134a, and 136a;
                            (iii) by striking the item relating to 
                        section 137a and inserting the following new 
                        item:

``137a. Principal Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.'';
                            (iv) by inserting after the item relating 
                        to section 138a the following new items:

``138b. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
``138c. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and 
                            Programs.
``138d. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and 
                            Biological Defense Programs.'';
                            (v) by striking the items relating to 
                        sections 139a, 139b, 139c, and 139d and 
                        inserting the following new items:

``139a. Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.
``139b. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Developmental Test 
                            and Evaluation; Deputy Assistant Secretary 
                            of Defense for Systems Engineering: joint 
                            guidance.
``139c. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manufacturing and 
                            Industrial Base Policy.''; and
                            (vi) by striking the item relating to 
                        section 142.
                    (B) The table of sections at the beginning of 
                chapter 144 of such title is amended by inserting after 
                the item relating to section 2437 the following new 
                item:

``2438. Performance assessments and root cause analyses.''.
    (l) Other Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Public law 111-23.--Section 102(b) of the Weapon 
        Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-23; 123 
        Stat. 1714; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Director of Developmental Test 
                and Evaluation and the Director of Systems 
                Engineering'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Developmental Test and Evaluation and the Deputy 
                Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems 
                Engineering''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by striking the paragraph heading and 
                        inserting ``Assessment of reports by deputy 
                        assistant secretary of defense for 
                        developmental test and evaluation and deputy 
                        assistant secretary of defense for systems 
                        engineering.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Directors'' and 
                        inserting ``Deputy Assistant Secretaries of 
                        Defense''.
            (2) Public law 110-181.--Section 214 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 2521 
        note) is amended by striking ``Director of Defense Research and 
        Engineering'' and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of Defense 
        for Research and Engineering''.
    (m) Technical Amendments.--
            (1) Section 131(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``his'' and inserting ``the Secretary's''.
            (2) Section 132 of such title is amended by redesignating 
        subsection (d), as added by section 2831(a) of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B 
        of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2669), as subsection (e).
            (3) Section 135(c) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``clauses'' and inserting ``paragraphs''.
    (n) Executive Schedule Amendments.--
            (1) Number of assistant secretary of defense positions.--
        Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
        striking the item relating to Assistant Secretaries of Defense 
        and inserting the following new item:
            ``Assistant Secretaries of Defense (16).''.
            (2) Positions redesignated as asd positions.--
                    (A) Section 5315 of such title is further amended 
                by striking the item relating to Director of Defense 
                Research and Engineering.
                    (B) Section 5316 of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to Assistant to the 
                Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and 
                Biological Defense Programs.
            (3) Amendments to strike references to positions in senior 
        executive service.--Section 5316 of such title is further 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking the item relating to Director, 
                Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Department 
                of Defense;
                    (B) by striking the item relating to Deputy General 
                Counsel, Department of Defense;
                    (C) by striking the item relating to Deputy Under 
                Secretaries of Defense for Research and Engineering, 
                Department of Defense; and
                    (D) by striking the item relating to Special 
                Assistant to the Secretary of Defense.
    (o) Inapplicability of Appointment Requirement to Certain 
Individuals Serving on Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding this section and the 
        amendments made by this section, the individual serving as 
        specified in paragraph (2) on December 31, 2010, may continue 
        to serve in the applicable position specified in that paragraph 
        after that date without the requirement for appointment by the 
        President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
            (2) Covered individuals and positions.--The individuals and 
        positions specified in this paragraph are the following:
                    (A) In the case of the individual serving as 
                Director of Defense Research and Engineering, the 
                position of Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research 
                and Engineering.
                    (B) In the case of the individual serving as 
                Director of Operational Energy Plans and Programs, the 
                position of Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
                Operational Energy Plans and Programs.
                    (C) In the case of the individual serving as 
                Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and 
                Chemical and Biological Defense Programs, the position 
                of Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, 
                Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs.
    (p) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), this 
        section and the amendments made by this section shall take 
        effect on January 1, 2011.
            (2) Certain matters.--Subsection (i) and the amendments 
        made by that subsection, and subsection (o), shall take effect 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 903. REVISION OF STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE RESERVE FORCES 
              POLICY BOARD.

    (a) Revision of Structure.--
            (1) In general.--Section 10301 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 10301. Reserve Forces Policy Board
    ``(a) In General.--As provided in section 175 of this title, there 
is in the Office of the Secretary of Defense a board known as the 
`Reserve Forces Policy Board' (in this section referred to as the 
`Board').
    ``(b) Functions.--The Board shall serve as an independent adviser 
to the Secretary of Defense to provide advice and recommendations to 
the Secretary on strategies, policies, and practices designed to 
improve and enhance the capabilities, efficiency, and effectiveness of 
the reserve components.
    ``(c) Membership.--The Board consists of 20 members, appointed or 
designated as follows:
            ``(1) A civilian appointed by the Secretary of Defense from 
        among persons determined by the Secretary to have the knowledge 
        of, and experience in, policy matters relevant to national 
        security and reserve component matters necessary to carry out 
        the duties of chair of the Board, who shall serve as chair of 
        the Board.
            ``(2) Two active or retired reserve officers or enlisted 
        members designated by the Secretary of Defense upon the 
        recommendation of the Secretary of the Army--
                    ``(A) one of whom shall be a member of the Army 
                National Guard of the United States or a former member 
                of the Army National Guard of the United States in the 
                Retired Reserve; and
                    ``(B) one of whom shall be a member or retired 
                member of the Army Reserve.
            ``(3) Two active or retired reserve officers or enlisted 
        members designated by the Secretary of Defense upon the 
        recommendation of the Secretary of the Navy--
                    ``(A) one of whom shall be an active or retired 
                officer of the Navy Reserve; and
                    ``(B) one of whom shall be an active or retired 
                officer of the Marine Corps Reserve.
            ``(4) Two active or retired reserve officers or enlisted 
        members designated by the Secretary of Defense upon the 
        recommendation of the Secretary of the Air Force--
                    ``(A) one of whom shall be a member of the Air 
                National Guard of the United States or a former member 
                of the Air National Guard of the United States in the 
                Retired Reserve; and
                    ``(B) one of whom shall be a member or retired 
                member of the Air Force Reserve.
            ``(5) One active or retired reserve officer or enlisted 
        member of the Coast Guard designated by the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security.
            ``(6) Ten persons appointed or designated by the Secretary 
        of Defense, each of whom shall be a United States citizen 
        having significant knowledge of and experience in policy 
        matters relevant to national security and reserve component 
        matters and shall be one of the following:
                    ``(A) An individual not employed in any Federal or 
                State department or agency.
                    ``(B) An individual employed by a Federal or State 
                department or agency.
                    ``(C) An officer of a regular component of the 
                armed forces on active duty, or an officer of a reserve 
                component of the armed forces in an active status, 
                who--
                            ``(i) is serving or has served in a senior 
                        position on the Joint Staff, the headquarters 
                        staff of a combatant command, or the 
                        headquarters staff of an armed force; and
                            ``(ii) has experience in joint professional 
                        military education, joint qualification, and 
                        joint operations matters.
            ``(7) A reserve officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or 
        Marine Corps who is a general or flag officer recommended by 
        the chair and designated by the Secretary of Defense, who shall 
        serve without vote--
                    ``(A) as military adviser to the chair;
                    ``(B) as military executive officer of the Board; 
                and
                    ``(C) as supervisor of the operations and staff of 
                the Board.
            ``(8) A senior enlisted member of a reserve component 
        recommended by the chair and designated by the Secretary of 
        Defense, who shall serve without vote as enlisted military 
        adviser to the chair.
    ``(d) Matters To Be Acted on.--The Board may act on those matters 
referred to it by the chair and on any matter raised by a member of the 
Board or the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(e) Staff.--The Board shall be supported by a staff consisting of 
one full-time officer from each of the reserve components listed in 
paragraphs (1) through (7) of section 10101 of this title who holds the 
grade of colonel, or in the case of the Navy the grade of captain, or 
who has been selected for promotion to that grade. These officers shall 
also serve as liaisons between their respective components and the 
Board. They shall perform their staff and liaison duties under the 
supervision of the military executive officer of the Board in an 
independent manner reflecting the independent nature of the Board.
    ``(f) Relationship to Service Reserve Policy Committees and 
Boards.--This section does not affect the committees and boards 
prescribed within the military departments by sections 10302 through 
10305 of this title, and a member of such a committee or board may, if 
otherwise eligible, be a member of the Board.
    ``(g) Employee Status and Compensation.--(1) A member of the Board 
appointed under paragraph (1) or (6) of subsection (b) who is not, by 
reason of service other than service with the Board, an employee of the 
Federal Government or a member of the armed forces shall not be 
considered a Federal Government employee by reason of service on the 
Board except for the purposes of the following provisions of law:
            ``(A) Chapter 57 of title 5, relating to travel and 
        transportation.
            ``(B) Chapter 81 of title 5, relating to compensation for 
        work-related injuries.
            ``(C) Chapter 171 of title 28 and any other Federal statute 
        relating to tort liability.
            ``(D) Chapter 73 of title 5, sections 201, 202, 203, 205, 
        207, 208, and 209 of title 18, and the Ethics in Government Act 
        of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App), relating to employee conduct, ethics, 
        conflict of interest, and corruption.
            ``(E) If the individual receives compensation under 
        paragraph (2), applicable provisions of subchapters II and VIII 
        of chapter 55 of title 5 (relating to pay withholdings and 
        settlement of accounts), section 459 of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 659) (relating to garnishment for child support and 
        alimony), and general employment laws that apply to the 
        compensation of both Federal and non-Federal employees, such as 
        the Federal Insurance Contributions Act.
    ``(2) A member of the Board described in paragraph (1) shall serve 
without compensation unless the Secretary of Defense approves payment 
of a rate of pay, subject to the limitation in section 5373 of title 
5.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on such date, not later than July 1, 2011, as 
        the Secretary of Defense shall certify. Upon the making of such 
        certification, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) submit a copy of such certification to the 
                congressional defense committees; and
                    (B) public notice of such certification in the 
                Federal Register.
    (b) Revision to Annual Report Requirement.--Section 113(c)(2) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the reserve 
programs of the Department of Defense and on any other matters'' and 
inserting ``on any reserve component matter''.

                      Subtitle B--Space Activities

SEC. 911. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR COSTS OF TERMINATING CONTRACTS 
              UNDER THE NATIONAL POLAR-ORBITING OPERATIONAL 
              ENVIRONMENTAL SATELLITE SYSTEM PROGRAM.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act to the Secretary of Defense for the National 
Polar-Orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System Program may 
be obligated or expended for the costs of terminating a contract 
awarded under the Program unless the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of Commerce enter into an agreement under which the Secretary 
of Defense and the Secretary of Commerce will each be responsible for 
half the costs of terminating the contract.

SEC. 912. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR PURCHASING GLOBAL POSITIONING 
              SYSTEM USER EQUIPMENT.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), 
none of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Defense 
may be obligated or expended to purchase user equipment for the Global 
Positioning System during fiscal years after fiscal year 2017 unless 
the equipment is capable of receiving the miliary code (commonly known 
as the ``M code'') from the Global Positioning System.
    (b) Exception.--The limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply 
with respect to the purchase of passenger vehicles or commercial 
vehicles in which Global Positioning System equipment is installed.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation 
under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that--
            (1) suitable user equipment capable of receiving the 
        military code from the Global Positioning System is not 
        available; or
            (2) with respect to a purchase of user equipment, the 
        Department of Defense does not require that user equipment to 
        be capable of receiving the military code from the Global 
        Positioning System.

SEC. 913. PLAN FOR INTEGRATION OF SPACE-BASED NUCLEAR DETECTION 
              SENSORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Director of National Intelligence and the Administrator for 
Nuclear Security, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
plan--
            (1) to integrate space-based nuclear detection sensors in a 
        geosynchronous orbit on the Space-Based Infrared System or 
        other satellite platforms; and
            (2) to comply fully with section 1065 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-
        181; 122 Stat. 324).
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds for the Space-Based Infrared 
System.--
            (1) In general.--Not more than 75 percent of the amounts 
        specified in paragraph (2) may be obligated or expended before 
        the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
        congressional defense committees the plan required by 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Amounts specified.--The amounts specified in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) The amount authorized to be appropriated by 
                section 103 for procurement for the Air Force and made 
                available by the funding table in section 4101 for 
                procurement for missiles for the Space-Based Infrared 
                System.
                    (B) The amount authorized to be appropriated by 
                section 201 for research, development, test, and 
                evaluation and made available by the funding table in 
                section 4201 for the Air Force for the Space-Based 
                Infrared System.

SEC. 914. PRESERVATION OF THE SOLID ROCKET MOTOR INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) Solid rocket motors are an integral part of our 
        Nation's defense arsenal, and a critical element to all United 
        States missile defense interceptors, tactical and strategic 
        missiles, targets, and satellite and human spaceflight launch 
        vehicles. The production and integration of solid propellant 
        rocket motors for weapon systems and space launch platforms is 
        hazardous and technically challenging, requiring unique 
        materials, technical skills, and manufacturing infrastructure.
            (2) Production of solid rocket motors has been in steady 
        decline for many years, including a recent dramatic drop 
        following the completion of the Minuteman III propulsion 
        replacement program, the termination of the Kinetic Energy 
        Interceptor program, a production slowdown in Ground-based 
        Midcourse Defense Interceptors, the planned retirement of the 
        Space Shuttle, and the transition of the Standard Missile-3 
        from the solid-propulsion based Block IA to a liquid-propulsion 
        based Block IB.
            (3) The Constellation program of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration, including its Ares I launch vehicle, 
        provides a critical underpinning to the remaining solid rocket 
        motor (SRM) industry, sustaining its skills, capabilities, 
        facilities, and all tiers of the supplier base.
            (4) A June 2009 Acquisition, Technology & Logistics, 
        Industrial Policy report, SRM Industrial Capabilities Report 
        for Congress, stated: ``NASA programs play a significant role 
        in sustaining the industrial capabilities for the SRM industry. 
        . . . [I]t takes many DoD missile programs to equal just one 
        Shuttle RSRM [Reusable Solid Rocket Motor] booster and it will 
        take more to equal the SRM booster for the new Ares I and Ares 
        V launch vehicles that are part of NASA's Constellation 
        Program. . . . In the large SRM sector, NASA programs (the 
        Shuttle and the Ares) are still the key contributors to the 
        viability of the SRM industrial base--prime and subtier''.
            (5) Earlier this year, the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration announced its plans to cancel the Ares I, Ares 
        V, and all supporting elements without making a thorough 
        assessment of the impact of the decision on the future health 
        and sustainability of this critical industrial base and without 
        consulting the Department of Defense or assessing the impact of 
        the decision on military space and missile systems, including 
        the missile defense program.
            (6) Since that announcement, several senior Department of 
        Defense officials have spoken about their concerns for the 
        future viability of the solid rocket motor industrial base, 
        confirming that the decision apparently was made without any 
        prior consultation with the Department of Defense, as indicated 
        by the following:
                    (A) On May 12, 2010, the Secretary of the Air 
                Force, Michael Donley, at a hearing of the defense 
                subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
                Senate, stated: ``I'm not aware that the Air Force was 
                consulted specifically on the NASA decisions. . . . We 
                do understand the challenge, and we do not have an 
                answer at this moment as to how we intend to proceed. 
                I've had discussions--Air Force has had discussions at 
                a couple of levels with the National Reconnaissance 
                Office and with NASA officials including at the highest 
                levels. I've talked to Administrator Bolden. I've 
                talked to General Carlson and NRO. We have recognized 
                this as something we need to work [on] together going 
                forward. We don't have answers right now, but we have 
                folks that are focused on this challenge. . . . In 
                general, Minuteman has been a very reliable system for 
                us, and continues to test well. But we do know that we 
                have challenges ahead with respect to maintaining a 
                warm base. And we're not satisfied with the bridging 
                solution that we had developed here over the last 
                couple of years, which takes us through 2011. So we 
                need to find a way forward for FY2012 and beyond on 
                this subject''.
                    (B) On April 22, 2010, the Commander of the United 
                States Strategic Command, Kevin Chilton, at a hearing 
                of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, 
                stated: ``Large solid rocket motors are very 
                complicated devices. . . . As the Strategic Command 
                commander, my concern . . . is what impact this 
                [NASA's] decision [to cancel the Constellation program] 
                might have on the industrial base as we look to the 
                future. . . . are we postured correctly from an 
                industrial base standpoint to sustain this technology 
                that I believe will be important for the strategic 
                deterrent for many years to come? . . . [A]ll of these 
                very complicated components of any large, solid rocket 
                motor, whether it be the D5, the Minuteman III or the 
                shuttle SRBs, or any follow-on to that. This is what 
                I'm worried about, is that we don't lose that formula 
                and expertise for being able to address all the 
                engineering challenges associated with all of those, 
                not at least to mention our joints between segments, as 
                we go forward''.
                    (C) On April 20, 2010, the Director of the Missile 
                Defense Agency, Lieutenant General Patrick J. O'Reilly, 
                at a hearing of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                Senate, stated: ``For BMD, we were not consulted [about 
                NASA's decision to cancel the Constellation program]. 
                Our solid rocket motor usage for large solid rocket 
                motors was about 8 percent of the total production done 
                in the United States every year. So, we had a very 
                small part to play. As you said, it was dominated by 
                NASA's use of the solid rocket motors. We have an 
                increase in the small solid rocket motors based on the 
                proposed budget that we have submitted to Congress, 
                where we will consume over 550 tons of small rocket 
                motors in the next five years. So, we actually have a 
                reverse process or challenge of having that production 
                capability for small solid rocket motors. Yet at the 
                same time, as you said, we have had a severe reduction 
                in the industrial capacity to produce the large solid 
                rocket motors. We are producing, or procuring, five 
                additional booster sets for our GBIs. One reason is 
                they are economical to buy now, to use them at a later 
                date if we need to for testing or other purposes''.
                    (D) On March 17, 2010, the Director of Navy 
                Strategic Systems, Rear Admiral Stephen Johnson, at a 
                hearing of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                Senate, stated: ``The change in . . . national orders 
                for large solid rocket motors causes more of the fixed 
                cost to fall upon the Navy's production costs. . . . We 
                expect to see a rise . . . of 10 to 20 percent. We are 
                working with the Department of Defense and with the two 
                companies involved to control those costs, but . . . 
                they will increase. We have seen an increase and they 
                will continue. . . . I would describe the industry as 
                fragile. The government plays an important role in 
                managing that industrial base . . . [T]he manufacturing 
                requirement for NASA is so much larger . . . and we 
                don`t know exactly what those costs are going to be. . 
                . . It's going to be a difficult cost for the Navy to 
                absorb. . . . We don't really know the full extent at 
                this moment''.
                    (E) On March 10, 2010, the Secretary of the Air 
                Force, Michael Donley, at a hearing of the defense 
                subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the 
                House of Representatives, stated: ``[W]e're looking at 
                additional pressure on the solid rocket motor and 
                launch; the industrial base that goes with that. With 
                the changes in NASA's program, we faced some 
                significant challenges in funding--developing an 
                affordable funding profile for space launch support''.
                    (F) On March 10, 2010, the Deputy Undersecretary of 
                the Air Force for Space Programs, Gary Payton, at a 
                hearing of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                Senate, stated: [``L]aunch costs are still rising. . . 
                . These industrial base factors will also be affected 
                by the decision to replace NASA's Constellation program 
                with a new, more technology-focused approach to space 
                exploration, which will likely reduce the customer base 
                for solid rocket motors. . .''.
                    (G) On March 10, 2010, the Commander of the Air 
                Force Space Command, General Robert Kehler, at a 
                hearing of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
                Senate, stated: ``[I]n looking at the NASA decision . . 
                . there is a challenge here regarding solid rocket 
                motors. And that's the most immediate challenge that we 
                see. The largest demand today on the solid rocket motor 
                industrial base comes from NASA, although the 
                Department of Defense--the Air Force and the Navy as 
                well--rely on that same industrial base for both the 
                land-based and the sea-based strategic deterrent, for 
                other launch vehicle solid rocket strap-ons, for 
                example, that we need for EELV and other things. . . . 
                [W]e have, to find out whether that's a real concern or 
                whether it is not. And I can`t give you the details of 
                that today because what we recommended prior to 
                [NASA's] decision was if this is the decision that's 
                made, we will then have to go off and sit down and take 
                a hard look at what the implications will be for the 
                industrial base. . . . We don't have answers yet. What 
                we do have is--is a potential concern. . .''.
                    (H) On February 23, 2010, the Secretary of the Air 
                Force Secretary, Michael Donley, at a hearing of the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives, stated: ``[W]e recognize the decisions 
                made on Ares and in the Constellation program in 
                general in NASA. And we have a challenge on the solid 
                rocket motor industrial base and on the booster 
                industrial base, period. So we recognize . . . a 
                broader industrial base issue, which we're going to 
                have to wrestle with this year. So we do not right now 
                have a long-term solution to that in hand''.
            (7) Section 2501 of title 10, United States Code, states 
        that United States policy is that the industrial base should be 
        capable of supplying and equipping the force structure of the 
        Armed Forces, and of reconstitution within a reasonable period. 
        The decision of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration potentially jeopardizes the solid rocket motor 
        industrial base.
            (8) Section 2505 of title 10, United States Code, requires 
        the Secretary of Defense to ensure that industrial base 
        assessments be integrated into overall budget, acquisition, and 
        logistics support decision processes. The decision of the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration without 
        consulting the Department of Defense jeopardizes the capacity 
        of the Secretary to carry out the Secretary's responsibility 
        under that section.
            (9) Termination of the Ares I, Ares V, or their solid 
        rocket alternatives or derivatives, and all supporting 
        elements, would leave some solid rocket motor production 
        facilities idle, likely resulting in their closure and 
        consolidation, and the costly requalification of remaining 
        programs. Regeneration of this infrastructure to meet the needs 
        of future programs would be lengthy and extremely costly.
            (10) Abandonment of the Ares I, Ares V, or their solid 
        rocket alternatives or derivatives, and all supporting 
        elements, could also force suppliers of unique materials for 
        the solid rocket motor industry out of business entirely, thus 
        jeopardizing industry ability to produce motors for current and 
        future programs. Recreating a new supplier base for these 
        unique materials would be extremely lengthy, and require the 
        costly requalification of existing programs.
            (11) Cancellation of the Ares I, Ares V, or their solid 
        rocket alternatives or derivatives, and all supporting ground 
        elements, could also cause a significant reduction in the 
        already aged workforce of the solid rocket motor industry and 
        undermine the ability of that industry to recruit, hire, and 
        train the next generation of workers in this field.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) without the Ares I, Ares V, or their solid rocket 
        alternatives or derivatives, and all supporting elements, of 
        the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, insufficient 
        production volume exists to sustain the current United States 
        solid rocket motor industrial base;
            (2) reconstitution of this industrial base after 
        termination, if such reconstitution could be achieved, would be 
        a lengthy and costly endeavor, imposing unacceptable risk into 
        the most critical strategic, missile defense, tactical, and 
        space lift capabilities of the United States;
            (3) there is a linkage between civil space programs and 
        military space and missile programs;
            (4) the decision of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration with respect to the cancellation of the Ares I, 
        Ares V, and all supporting elements will have a significant 
        impact on Department of Defense costs and missions;
            (5) future decisions on civil space matters that impact 
        Department of Defense costs and missions should be fully 
        coordinated with the Secretary of Defense; and
            (6) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        should comply with the proviso under the heading 
        ``exploration'' under the heading ``National Aeronautics and 
        Space Administration'' in the Science Appropriations Act, 2010 
        (title III of division B of Public Law 111-117; 123 Stat. 
        3143).
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration, submit to the appropriate committees 
        of Congress a report on the impact of the cancellation of the 
        Constellation program of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration on any anticipated next generation mission 
        requirements, for missile defense interceptors, tactical and 
        strategic missiles, targets, and satellite and human 
        spaceflight launch vehicles.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under this subsection 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of the effects on 
                Department of Defense programs that utilize solid 
                rocket motors of the cancellation of the Ares I, Ares 
                V, or their solid rocket alternatives or derivatives, 
                and all supporting elements.
                    (B) A description of the plans of the Department of 
                Defense to mitigate the impact of of the cancellation 
                of the Ares I, Ares V, or their solid rocket 
                alternatives or derivatives, and all supporting 
                elements, on the United States solid rocket motor 
                industrial base, including a description of the 
                National Aeronautics and Space Administration and 
                Department of Defense funding required to implement 
                such plans between fiscal years 2012 and 2017.
                    (C) A description of the impact of the cancellation 
                of the Ares I, Ares V, or their solid rocket 
                alternatives or derivatives, and all supporting 
                elements, on international partners in programs such as 
                the D-5 Trident missile.
                    (D) A detailed description of the source of the 
                data used in the report.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committees on Armed Services, Commerce, 
                Science, and Transportation, and Appropriations of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committees on Armed Services, Energy and 
                Commerce, and Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 915. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN TO SUSTAIN SOLID ROCKET MOTOR INDUSTRIAL 
              BASE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop an 
implementation plan to sustain the solid rocket motor industrial base 
that--
            (1) is based on the recommendations included in the report 
        submitted to the congressional defense committees under section 
        1078 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2479); and
            (2) includes a funding plan for carrying out the 
        implementation plan.
    (b) Submittal to Congress.--The implementation plan required by 
subsection (a) shall be submitted to Congress with the budget of the 
President for fiscal year 2012 as submitted under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 916. REVIEW AND PLAN ON SUSTAINMENT OF LIQUID ROCKET PROPULSION 
              SYSTEMS INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, review, and develop a plan to sustain, the liquid 
rocket propulsion systems industrial base.
    (b) Elements.--The review and plan required by subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
            (1) The capacity to maintain currently available liquid 
        rocket propulsion systems.
            (2) The maintenance of an intellectual and engineering 
        capacity to support next generation liquid rocket propulsion 
        systems and engines, as needed.
            (3) Opportunities for interagency collaboration and 
        research and development on future propulsion systems.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than June 1, 2011, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the plan 
required by subsection (a).

                    Subtitle C--Intelligence Matters

SEC. 921. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO ENGAGE IN 
              COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES AS SECURITY FOR INTELLIGENCE 
              COLLECTION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 431(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the second sentence.

SEC. 922. MODIFICATION OF ATTENDEES AT PROCEEDINGS OF INTELLIGENCE, 
              SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE INTEGRATION COUNCIL.

    (a) Findings.--Section 923(a)(4) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-163; 117 Stat. 
1574; 10 U.S.C. 426 note) is amended by striking ``National Foreign 
Intelligence Program (NFIP), Joint Military Intelligence Program 
(JMIP), and Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities Program 
(TIARA)'' and inserting ``National Intelligence Program (NIP) and a 
Military Intelligence Program (MIP)''.
    (b) Additional Authorized Attendees.--Section 426(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(4) Each Secretary of a military department may designate an 
officer or employee of such military department to attend the 
proceedings of the Council as a representative of such military 
department.''.

SEC. 923. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTERSERVICE MANAGEMENT AND 
              COORDINATION OF REMOTELY-PILOTED AIRCRAFT SUPPORT OF 
              INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) Report to secretary of defense by chiefs of staff.--Not 
        later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval 
        Operations, and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force shall 
        jointly submit to the Secretary of Defense a report, in 
        accordance with this section, on remotely-piloted aircraft 
        (RPA) support of intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        (ISR) within their respective Armed Forces.
            (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the receipt of the report required by paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall transmit the report, together with the 
        assessment and any recommendations of the Secretary (including 
        the matters required pursuant to subsection (b)(2)) to the 
        congressional defense committees.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) In the case of the report required by subsection 
        (a)(1), a description by each chief of staff referred to in 
        that subsection of--
                    (A) current and planned remotely-piloted aircraft 
                inventories to support intelligence, surveillance, and 
                reconnaissance requirements over the period 2011 to 
                2020, including an identification of systems each Armed 
                Force considers organic and the systems capable of 
                providing theater-level support to the commanders of 
                the combatant commands;
                    (B) policy and processes of each Armed Force for 
                coordinating investments in remotely-piloted aircraft 
                to meet joint force requirements for intelligence, 
                surveillance, and reconnaissance and to eliminate 
                unnecessary duplication in both development and 
                capability; and
                    (C) the current employment of remotely-piloted 
                aircraft by each Armed Force, including the number of 
                remotely-piloted aircraft deployed in support 
                operations, the number of remotely-piloted aircraft 
                assigned for training, and the number of remotely-
                piloted aircraft warehoused, the capacity of each Armed 
                Force to process, exploit, and disseminate 
                intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance data 
                collected, and the extent to which assets are provided 
                to the joint community to meet requirements of the 
                combatant commands.
            (2) In the case of the transmittal required by subsection 
        (a)(2)--
                    (A) an assessment of the effectiveness of the 
                employment of remotely-piloted aircraft by each Armed 
                Force, and a description of the percentage of joint 
                force requirements for intelligence, surveillance, and 
                reconnaissance that are being met by the remotely-
                piloted aircraft of each Armed Force;
                    (B) a description of the joint concept of 
                operations under which each Armed Forces provides 
                intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
                capabilities through remotely-piloted aircraft to meet 
                the requirements of the combatant commands;
                    (C) a description of the policy and processes for 
                coordinating investments in remotely-piloted aircraft 
                to meet joint force requirements for intelligence, 
                surveillance, and reconnaissance and to eliminate 
                unnecessary duplication in both development and 
                capability;
                    (D) a description of the processes by which current 
                requirements of the commanders of the combatant 
                commands for intelligence, surveillance, and 
                reconnaissance are validated, and how the remotely-
                piloted aircraft capabilities of each Armed Force are 
                assigned against validated requirements;
                    (E) a description of the current intelligence, 
                surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of each 
                combatant command through remotely-piloted aircraft;
                    (F) a description of how the requirements described 
                under subparagraph (E) are being met;
                    (G) an identification of any mission degradation or 
                failure within the combatant commands due to lack of 
                intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance support;
                    (H) a description of various means of addressing 
                any shortfalls in meeting the requirements described 
                under subparagraph (E), including temporary shortfalls 
                and permanent shortfalls;
                    (I) a description of the organization of the 
                Unmanned Aerial System Task Force, including the goals 
                and objectives of the task force and the participation 
                and roles of each Armed Force within the task force;
                    (J) a description of the organization of the 
                Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Task 
                Force, including the goals and objectives of the task 
                force and the participation and roles of each Armed 
                Force within the task force; and
                    (K) an identification of any theater-level 
                intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capacity 
                of an Armed Force that is not being made available by 
                services to fulfill joint force requirements for 
                intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
    (c) Remotely-piloted Aircraft Defined.--In this section, the term 
``remotely-piloted aircraft'' means any unmanned aircraft operated 
remotely, whether within or beyond line-of-sight, including unmanned 
aerial systems (UAS), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), remotely-piloted 
vehicles (RPV), and remotely-piloted aircraft (RPA).

SEC. 924. REPORT ON REQUIREMENTS FULFILLMENT AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 
              RELATING TO AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND 
              RECONNAISSANCE PROVIDED BY REMOTELY-PILOTED AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall, in 
coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Intelligence, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
on requirements fulfillment and personnel management in connection with 
Air Force intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) provided 
by remotely-piloted aircraft (RPA).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the Joint Concept of Operation under 
        which the Air Force operates to fulfill intelligence, 
        surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements provided by 
        remotely-piloted aircraft.
            (2) A description of the current requirements of each 
        combatant command for Air Force intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance provided by remotely-piloted aircraft, 
        including--
                    (A) the number of orbits or combat air patrols for 
                each major platform and sensor payload combination;
                    (B) the number of aircraft, aircraft operators, and 
                ground crews in each orbit or combat air patrol, 
                variations in the numbers of each, and the explanation 
                for such variations;
                    (C) a description of how requirements are being met 
                by the management of personnel, platforms, sensors, and 
                networks; and
                    (D) a description of various means of addressing 
                any shortfalls in meeting such requirements, including 
                temporary shortfalls and permanent shortfalls.
            (3) A description of manpower management to fulfill Air 
        Force mission requirements for intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance requirements provided by remotely-piloted 
        aircraft, including the current number of personnel associated 
        with each combat air patrol by remotely-piloted aircraft for 
        aircraft pilots, sensor operators, mission intelligence 
        coordinators, and processing, exploitation, and dissemination 
        analysts (in this section referred to as ``operators and 
        analysts for remotely-piloted aircraft'').
            (4) A description of current Air Force manpower 
        requirements for operators and analysts for remotely-piloted 
        aircraft, and any plans for meeting such requirements, 
        including--
                    (A) an identification of any shortfalls in 
                personnel, skill specialties, and grades; and
                    (B) any plans of the Air Force to address such 
                shortfalls, including--
                            (i) plans to address shortfalls in 
                        applicable career field retention rates; and
                            (ii) plans for utilization of National 
                        Guard and other reserve component personnel to 
                        address shortfalls in such personnel, skill 
                        specialties, and grades.
            (5) A description of the projected Air Force manpower 
        requirements for operators and analysts for remotely-piloted 
        aircraft in each of 2015 and 2020, including--
                    (A) an identification of any significant challenges 
                to achieving such requirements in particular skill 
                specialties and grades; and
                    (B) any plans of the Air Force to address such 
                challenges.
            (6) A description of the collaboration of the Air Force 
        with, and the reliance of the Air Force on, the other Armed 
        Forces and the combat support agencies, in asset management for 
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance by remotely-
        piloted aircraft, including personnel for processing, 
        exploitation, and dissemination.
            (7) A description of potential adverse consequences of 
        operating intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance by 
        remotely-piloted aircraft, and associated intelligence support 
        infrastructure, in a surge, understaffed state, or both, 
        including--
                    (A) the impact of having to provide forward 
                processing, exploitation, and dissemination to support 
                emerging capabilities; and
                    (B) any plans of the Air Force to mitigate such 
                consequences.
            (8) A description of the status of Air Force training 
        programs for operators and analysts for remotely-piloted 
        aircraft, including the ability to meet Air Force manpower 
        requirements for such operators and analysts, and plans for 
        increasing training capacity to match plans for expanding Air 
        Force intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        capabilities.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

     Subtitle D--Cyber Warfare, Cyber Security, and Related Matters

SEC. 931. CONTINUOUS MONITORING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INFORMATION 
              SYSTEMS FOR CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall direct the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Defense to work, in 
coordination with the Chief Information Officers of the military 
departments and the Defense Agencies and with senior cybersecurity and 
information assurance officials within the Department of Defense and 
otherwise within the Federal Government, to achieve, to the extent 
practicable, the following:
            (1) The continuous prioritization of the policies, 
        principles, standards, and guidelines developed under section 
        20 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act 
        (15 U.S.C. 278g-3) with agencies and offices operating or 
        exercising control of national security systems (including the 
        National Security Agency) based upon the evolving threat of 
        information security incidents with respect to national 
        security systems, the vulnerability of such systems to such 
        incidents, and the consequences of information security 
        incidents involving such systems.
            (2) The automation of continuous monitoring of the 
        effectiveness of the information security policies, procedures, 
        and practices within the information infrastructure of the 
        Department of Defense, and the compliance of that 
        infrastructure with such policies, procedures, and practices, 
        including automation of--
                    (A) management, operational, and technical controls 
                of every information system identified in the inventory 
                required under section 3505(c) of title 44, United 
                States Code; and
                    (B) management, operational, and technical controls 
                relied on for evaluations under section 3545 of title 
                44, United States Code.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``information security incident'' means an 
        occurrence that--
                    (A) actually or potentially jeopardizes the 
                confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an 
                information system or the information such system 
                processes, stores, or transmits; or
                    (B) constitutes a violation or imminent threat of 
                violation of security policies, security procedures, or 
                acceptable use policies with respect to an information 
                system.
            (2) The term ``information infrastructure'' means the 
        underlying framework, equipment, and software that an 
        information system and related assets rely on to process, 
        transmit, receive, or store information electronically.
            (3) The term ``national security system'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 3542(b)(2) of title 44, United 
        States Code.

SEC. 932. STRATEGY ON COMPUTER SOFTWARE ASSURANCE.

    (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
implement, by not later than October 1, 2011, a strategy for assuring 
the security of software and software-based applications for all 
covered systems.
    (b) Covered Systems.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
system is any critical information system or weapon system of the 
Department of Defense, including the following:
            (1) A major system, as that term is defined in section 
        2302(5) of title 10, United States Code.
            (2) A national security system, as that term is defined in 
        section 3542 of title 44, United States Code.
            (3) Any Department of Defense information system 
        categorized as Mission Assurance Category (MAC) I.
            (4) Any Department of Defense information system 
        categorized as Mission Assurance Category II in accordance with 
        Department of Defense Directive 8500.01E.
    (c) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Policy and regulations on the following:
                    (A) Software assurance generally.
                    (B) Contract requirements for software assurance 
                for covered systems in development and production.
                    (C) Inclusion of software assurance in milestone 
                reviews and milestone approvals.
                    (D) Rigorous test and evaluation of software 
                assurance in development, acceptance, and operational 
                tests.
                    (E) Certification and accreditation requirements 
                for software assurance for new systems and for updates 
                for legacy systems.
                    (F) Remediation in legacy systems of critical 
                software assurance deficiencies that are defined as 
                critical in accordance with the Application Security 
                Technical Implementation Guide of the Defense 
                Information Systems Agency.
            (2) Allocation of adequate facilities and other resources 
        for test and evaluation and certification and accreditation of 
        software to meet applicable requirements for research and 
        development, systems acquisition, and operations.
            (3) Mechanisms for protection against compromise of 
        information systems through the supply chain or cyber attack by 
        acquiring and improving automated tools for--
                    (A) assuring the security of software and software 
                applications during software development;
                    (B) detecting vulnerabilities during testing of 
                software; and
                    (C) detecting intrusions during real-time 
                monitoring of software applications.
            (4) Mechanisms providing the Department of Defense with the 
        capabilities--
                    (A) to monitor systems and applications in order to 
                detect and defeat attempts to penetrate or disable such 
                systems and applications; and
                    (B) to ensure that such monitoring capabilities are 
                integrated into the Department of Defense system of 
                cyber defense-in-depth capabilities.
            (5) An update to Committee for National Security Systems 
        Instruction No. 4009, entitled ``National Information Assurance 
        Glossary'', to include a standard definition for software 
        security assurance.
            (6) Either--
                    (A) mechanisms to ensure that vulnerable Mission 
                Assurance Category III information systems, if 
                penetrated, cannot be used as a foundation for 
                penetration of protected covered systems, and means for 
                assessing the effectiveness of such mechanisms; or
                    (B) plans to address critical vulnerabilities in 
                Mission Assurance Category III information systems to 
                prevent their use for intrusions of Mission Assurance 
                Category I systems and Mission Assurance Category II 
                systems.
            (7) A funding mechanism for remediation of critical 
        software assurance vulnerabilities in legacy systems.
    (d) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2011, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the strategy required by subsection (a). The report shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the current status of the strategy 
        required by subsection (a) and of the implementation of the 
        strategy, including a description of the role of the strategy 
        in the risk management by the Department regarding the supply 
        chain and in operational planning for cyber security.
            (2) A description of the risks, if any, that the Department 
        will accept in the strategy due to limitations on funds or 
        other applicable constraints.

SEC. 933. STRATEGY FOR ACQUISITION AND OVERSIGHT OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE CYBER WARFARE CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The cyber space operating domain is characterized by 
        near-speed-of-light actions.
            (2) Deterrence and defense in cyber space require agility 
        in responding to new threats.
            (3) Traditional processes and schedules for the acquisition 
        of defense systems are not tailored to meet the speed and 
        agility required for the acquisition of capabilities for cyber 
        security operations.
            (4) The United States Cyber Command will need to be 
        provided with new or modified tools and capabilities to procure 
        cyber security and cyber warfare capabilities in a timely 
        manner.
            (5) It is necessary to preserve the independence, 
        discipline, and integrity of the requirements process and the 
        acquisition process.
            (6) The assignment to a single individual of responsibility 
        as Director of the National Security Agency and Commander of 
        the United States Cyber Command complicates the process of 
        ensuring proper oversight of the establishment of requirements 
        for cyber systems and of the procurement of capabilities for 
        the United States Cyber Command.
            (7) The sensitive and secretive nature of operations in 
        cyber space, and the unclear boundaries between activities 
        undertaken under the authorities of the Director of National 
        Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense, further complicate 
        the creation of sound oversight processes for acquiring and 
        exercising cyber warfare capabilities.
    (b) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
strategy to provide for the rapid acquisition of tools, applications, 
and other capabilities for cyber warfare for the United States Cyber 
Command.
    (c) Basic Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (b) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An orderly process for determining and approving 
        operational requirements.
            (2) A well-defined, repeatable, transparent, and 
        disciplined process for developing capabilities to meet such 
        requirements.
            (3) The allocation of facilities and other resources to 
        thoroughly test such capabilities in development, before 
        deployment, and before use in order to validate performance and 
        take into account collateral damage and other so-called second-
        order effects.
    (d) Additional Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (b) 
shall also provide for the following:
            (1) Safeguards to prevent--
                    (A) the circumvention of operational requirements 
                and acquisition processes through informal 
                relationships among the United States Cyber Command, 
                the Armed Forces, the National Security Agency, and the 
                Defense Information Systems Agency; and
                    (B) the abuse of quick-reaction processes otherwise 
                available for the rapid fielding of capabilities.
            (2) The establishment of reporting and oversight processes 
        for requirements generation and approval for cyber warfare 
        capabilities, the assignment of responsibility for providing 
        capabilities to meet such requirements, and the execution of 
        development and deployment of such capabilities, under the 
        authority of the Chairman of the Joint Requirements Oversight 
        Council, the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, and other 
        officials in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, as 
        designated in the strategy.
            (3) The establishment and maintenance of test and 
        evaluation facilities and resources for cyber infrastructure to 
        support research and development, operational test and 
        evaluation, operational planning and effects testing, and 
        training by replicating or emulating networks and 
        infrastructure maintained and operated by the military and 
        political organizations of potential United States adversaries, 
        by domestic and foreign telecommunications service providers, 
        and by the Department of Defense.
            (4) An organization or organizations within the Department 
        of Defense to be responsible for the operation and maintenance 
        of cyber infrastructure for research, development, test, and 
        evaluation purposes.
            (5) Appropriate disclosure regarding United States cyber 
        warfare capabilities to the independent test and evaluation 
        community, and the involvement of that community in the 
        development and maintenance of such capabilities, regardless of 
        classification.
            (6) The role of the private sector and appropriate 
        Department of Defense organizations in developing capabilities 
        to operate in cyber space, and a clear process for determining 
        whether to allocate responsibility for responding to Department 
        of Defense cyber warfare requirements through Federal 
        Government personnel, contracts with private sector entities, 
        or a combination of both.
            (7) The roles of each Armed Force, and of the combat 
        support Defense Agencies, in the development of cyber warfare 
        capabilities in support of offensive, defensive, and 
        intelligence operational requirements.
            (8) The manner in which the Department of Defense will 
        promote interoperability, share innovation, and avoid 
        unproductive duplication in cyber warfare capabilities through 
        specialization among the components of the Department 
        responsible for developing cyber capabilities.
    (e) Report on Strategy.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than March 15, 2011, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees 
        of Congress a report on the strategy required by subsection 
        (b). The report shall include a comprehensive description of 
        the strategy and plans (including a schedule) for the 
        implementation of the strategy.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee 
                on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 934. REPORT ON THE CYBER WARFARE POLICY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) During classified and unclassified testimony before 
        Congress, senior officials of the Department of Defense 
        acknowledged that there is a serious gap between the Nation's 
        capabilities to conduct offensive and intelligence-gathering 
        operations in cyberspace and the policies and regulations 
        necessary to guide and limit, and provide oversight of, such 
        operations.
            (2) These senior officials also testified to their belief 
        that the Administration should be able to correct the 
        shortfalls in such policies during 2010.
            (3) It is vital for the Department of Defense and the 
        President to ensure that the United States Cyber Command 
        operates under the clearest possible rules of engagement and 
        policy directives to prevent mistakes, avoid setting bad 
        precedents, and enable effective actions and responses in 
        defense of the Nation's interests in cyberspace.
            (4) It is also vital for the United States to convey to the 
        international community the Nation's position on deterrence, 
        the exercise of the right of self-defense, acceptable norms of 
        behavior, the responsibilities of sovereign nations, violations 
        of sovereignty, the use of force and acts of war, and other 
        fundamental national security issues associated with 
        cyberspace.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2011, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the 
        cyber warfare policy of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the policy and legal issues 
                investigated and evaluated by the Department in 
                considering the range of missions and activities that 
                the Department may choose to conduct in cyberspace.
                    (B) The decisions of the Secretary with respect to 
                such issues, and the recommendations of the Secretary 
                to the President for decisions on such of those issues 
                as exceed the authority of the Secretary to resolve, 
                together with the rationale and justification of the 
                Secretary for such decisions and recommendations.
                    (C) A description of the intentions of the 
                Secretary with regard to modifying the National 
                Military Strategy for Cyberspace Operations.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in both unclassified and classified form.

SEC. 935. REPORTS ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRESS IN DEFENDING THE 
              DEPARTMENT AND THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE FROM CYBER 
              EVENTS.

    (a) Reports on Progress Required.--Not later than March 15, 2011, 
and every year thereafter through 2015, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the progress 
of the Department of Defense in defending the Department and the 
defense industrial base from cyber events (such as attacks, intrusions, 
and theft).
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) In the case of the first report, a baseline for 
        measuring the progress of the Department of Defense in 
        defending the Department and the defense industrial base from 
        cyber events, including definitions of significant cyber 
        events, an appropriate categorization of various types of cyber 
        events, the basic methods used in various cyber events, the 
        vulnerabilities exploited in such cyber events, and the metrics 
        to be utilized to determine whether the Department is or is not 
        making progress against an evolving cyber threat.
            (2) A description of the nature and scope of significant 
        cyber events against the Department and the defense industrial 
        base during the preceding year, including, for each such event, 
        a description of the intelligence or other Department data 
        acquired, the extent of the corruption or compromise of 
        Department information or weapon systems, and the impact of 
        such event on the Department generally and on operational 
        capabilities.
            (3) A comparative assessment of the offensive cyber warfare 
        capabilities of current representative potential United States 
        adversaries and nations with advanced cyber warfare 
        capabilities with the capacity of the United States to defend--
                    (A) military networks and mission capabilities; and
                    (B) critical infrastructure.
            (4) A comparative assessment of the offensive cyber warfare 
        capabilities of the United States with the capacity of current 
        representative potential United States adversaries and nations 
        with advanced cyber warfare capabilities to defend against 
        cyber attacks.
            (5) A comparative assessment of the degree of dependency of 
        current representative potential United States adversaries, 
        nations with advanced cyber warfare capabilities, and the 
        United States on networks that can be attacked through 
        cyberspace.
    (c) Performance of Certain Assessments.--The comparative assessment 
required by subsection (b)(3)(B) shall be performed by the Department 
of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Department of Defense 
and other agencies of the Government with specific responsibility for 
critical infrastructure.
    (d) Form.--Each report under this section shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 951. REPORT ON ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND POLICY GUIDANCE OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REGARDING INFORMATION OPERATIONS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives a report on the organizational 
structure and policy guidance of the Department of Defense with respect 
to information operations.
    (b) Review.--In preparing the report required by subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall review the following:
            (1) The extent to which the current definition of 
        ``information operations'' in Department of Defense Directive 
        3600.1 is appropriate.
            (2) The appropriate location within the Department of the 
        lead official responsible for information operations of the 
        Department, including the designation of a principal staff 
        assistant to the Secretary of Defense for information 
        operations.
            (3) Departmental responsibility for the development and 
        oversight of Department policy on information operations and 
        for the integration of such operations.
            (4) Departmental responsibility for the planning, 
        execution, and oversight of Department information operations.
            (5) Departmental responsibility for coordination within the 
        Department, and between the Department and other departments 
        and agencies of the Federal Government, regarding Department 
        information operations, and for the resolution of conflicts in 
        the discharge of such operations.
            (6) The roles and responsibilities of the military 
        departments, the United States Special Operations Command, and 
        the other combatant commands in the development and 
        implementation of information operations.
            (7) The roles and responsibilities of the defense 
        intelligence agencies for support of information operations.
            (8) The roles of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Public Affairs, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
        Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict, and the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration 
        in information operations.
            (9) The role of related capabilities in the discharge of 
        information operations, including public affairs capabilities, 
        civil-military operations capabilities, defense support of 
        public diplomacy, and intelligence.
            (10) The management structure of computer network 
        operations in the Department for the discharge of information 
        operations, and the policy in support of that component.
            (11) The appropriate use, management, and oversight of 
        contractors in the development and implementation of 
        information operations.
    (c) Department of Defense Directive.--Upon the submittal of the 
report required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall prescribe a 
revised directive for the Department of Defense on information 
operations. The directive shall take into account the results of the 
review conducted for purposes of the report.
    (d) Information Operations Defined.--In this section, the term 
``information operations'' means the information operations specified 
in Department of Defense Directive 3600.1, as follows:
            (1) Electronic warfare.
            (2) Computer network operations.
            (3) Psychological operations.
            (4) Military deception.
            (5) Operations security.

SEC. 952. REPORT ON ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURES OF THE GEOGRAPHIC 
              COMBATANT COMMAND HEADQUARTERS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly submit to the Committee on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
of Representatives a report on the organizational structures of the 
headquarters of the geographic combatant commands.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following;
            (1) A description of the organizational structure of the 
        headquarters of each geographic combatant command.
            (2) An assessment of the benefits and limitations of the 
        different organizational structures in meeting the broad range 
        of military missions of the geographic combatant commands.
            (3) A description and assessment of the role and 
        contributions of other departments and agencies of the Federal 
        Government within each organizational structure, including a 
        description of any plans to expand interagency participation in 
        the geographic combatant commands in the future.
            (4) A description of any lessons learned from the ongoing 
        reorganization of the organizational structure of the United 
        States Southern Command and the United States Africa Command, 
        including an assessment of the value, if any, added by the 
        position of civilian deputy to the commander of the United 
        States Southern Command and to the commander of the United 
        States Africa Command.
            (5) Any other matters the Secretary and the Chairman 
        consider appropriate.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this division for 
        fiscal year 2011 between any such authorizations for that 
        fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of 
        authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be 
        available for the same purposes as the authorization to which 
        transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer 
        under the authority of this section may not exceed 
        $5,000,000,000.
            (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
        authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
        authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
        dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by this section to 
transfer authorizations--
            (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
        have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
        transferred; and
            (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
        has been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

SEC. 1002. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR ANNUAL JOINT REPORT FROM OFFICE OF 
              MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET AND CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE ON 
              SCORING OF OUTLAYS IN DEFENSE BUDGET FUNCTION.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 226 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 9 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 226.

                Subtitle B--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1011. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR 
              CERTAIN NAVY MESS OPERATIONS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (b) of section 1014 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4585) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' 
and inserting ``September 30, 2015''.
    (b) Clarification of Scope of Authority.--Subsection (a) of such 
section is amended by inserting ``in any fiscal year'' after ``may be 
used''.

                    Subtitle C--Counterdrug Matters

SEC. 1021. NOTICE TO CONGRESS ON MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS FOR 
              FACILITIES OF FOREIGN LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES FOR 
              COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Notice to Congress.--
            (1) Notice.--Paragraph (2) of section 1004(h) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 
        U.S.C. 374 note) is amended by striking ``that--'' and all that 
        follows and inserting ``that is intended for--
            ``(A) the modification or repair of a Department of Defense 
        facility for the purpose set forth in subsection (b)(4); or
            ``(B) the construction, repair, or modification of a 
        facility of a foreign law enforcement agency for the purpose of 
        counter-drug activities of the law enforcement agency.''.
            (2) Construction of notice.--Such section is further 
        amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Paragraph (2) may not be construed as an authorization for 
the use of funds for any military construction project other than an 
unspecified minor military construction project.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2010, and shall apply with respect to 
facilities projects for which a decision is made to be carried out on 
or after that date.

SEC. 1022. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF SUPPORT FOR COUNTER-DRUG 
              ACTIVITIES OF CERTAIN FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.

    (a) Extension.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 1033 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public 
        Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 1881), as most recently amended by 
        section 1014 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2442), is 
        further amended by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2011''.
            (2) Maximum amount of support.--Subsection (e)(2) of such 
        section, as so amended, is further amended by striking ``either 
        of fiscal years 2009 and 2010'' and inserting ``any of fiscal 
        years 2009 through 2011''.
    (b) Additional Government Eligible To Receive Support.--Subsection 
(b) of such section, as most recently amended by section 1024 of the 
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
(Public Law 110-417; 122. Stat. 4587), is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(23) The Government of Nicaragua.''.

SEC. 1023. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF JOINT TASK FORCES SUPPORT TO 
              LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES CONDUCTING COUNTER-TERRORISM 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (b) of section 1022 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (10 U.S.C. 371 note) is 
amended by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2011''.
    (b) Availability of Authority Dependent on Connection Between 
Foreign Terrorist Organization and Illegal Drug Trafficking.--
            (1) Availability of authority for future support.--
        Subsection (d) of that section is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Any support''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) In any fiscal year after fiscal year 2010, a joint task 
force described in subsection (a) may provide support described in that 
subsection only if the Secretary of Defense determines and certifies to 
Congress that a significant connection exists between the foreign 
terrorist organization concerned and an entity engaged in illegal drug 
trafficking.
    ``(B) In this paragraph, the term `foreign terrorist organization' 
means an organization designated under section 219 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).''.
            (2) Compliance of current support with requirement.--The 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting 
        forth a certification as to whether or not each existing joint 
        task force providing support under section 1022 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 as of September 
        30, 2010, is providing such support in a manner consistent with 
        the requirements of paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of such 
        section, as added by paragraph (1) of this subsection.

SEC. 1024. EXTENSION OF NUMERICAL LIMITATION ON ASSIGNMENT OF UNITED 
              STATES PERSONNEL IN COLOMBIA.

    Section 1021(c) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 
2042), as most recently amended by section 1011 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-81; 123 Stat. 
2441), is further amended by striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2011''.

SEC. 1025. REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON EXPENDITURES TO SUPPORT FOREIGN 
              COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES.

    Section 1022(a) of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public 
Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-255), as most recently amended by section 
1013 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2442), is further amended by striking 
``February 15, 2010'' and inserting ``February 15, 2011''.

             Subtitle D--Homeland Defense and Civil Support

SEC. 1031. LIMITATION ON DEACTIVATION OF EXISTING CONSEQUENCE 
              MANAGEMENT RESPONSE FORCES.

    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that no 
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, or High-Yield Explosive 
(CBRNE) Consequence Management Response Force established as of October 
1, 2009, is deactivated or disestablished until 90 days after the 
Secretary provides a certification described in subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a written certification to the congressional defense committees that 
there exists within the United States Armed Forces an alternative 
chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or high-yield explosive 
consequence management response capability that is at least as capable 
as two Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, or High-Yield 
Explosive Consequence Management Response Forces.
    (c) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on plans of the 
        Department of Defense to establish Homeland Response Forces for 
        domestic emergency response to incidents involving weapons of 
        mass destruction.
            (2) Elements of report.--The report required by this 
        subsection shall include the following:
                    (A) A detailed description of the analysis that led 
                to the decision to establish Homeland Response Forces 
                described in paragraph (1), including--
                            (i) whether consideration was given to 
                        establishing Homeland Response Forces within 
                        the Reserves; and
                            (ii) the reasons for not planning to 
                        establish any Homeland Response Forces within 
                        the Reserves.
                    (B) A detailed description of the plans to 
                establish Homeland Response Forces, including--
                            (i) the cost and schedule to establish, 
                        equip, maintain, and operate the proposed 
                        Homeland Response Forces;
                            (ii) guidelines for the employment of 
                        Homeland Response Forces; and
                            (iii) the portion of the costs of Homeland 
                        Response Forces that will be borne by the 
                        States.
                    (C) A detailed description of the proposed number 
                and composition of Homeland Response Forces, 
                including--
                            (i) the number and type of units in each 
                        Homeland Response Force; and
                            (ii) the number of personnel in each 
                        Homeland Response Force.
                    (D) A comparative assessment of the emergency 
                response capabilities of a Homeland Response Force with 
                the capabilities of a Chemical, Biological, 
                Radiological, Nuclear, or High-Yield Explosive 
                Consequence Management Response Force, including--
                            (i) a comparison of the equipment proposed 
                        for each type of force;
                            (ii) a comparison of the proposed means of 
                        transportation for each type of force;
                            (iii) an estimate of the time it would take 
                        each type of force to deploy to an incident 
                        site; and
                            (iv) an estimate of the operational 
                        duration of each type of force at such a site.
                    (E) A description of the command and control 
                arrangements proposed for the Homeland Response Forces, 
                including a description of the degree to which the 
                Homeland Response Forces would be subject to the 
                direction and control of the Department of Defense, as 
                compared to the Governor of the State in which they are 
                located.
                    (F) The results of the United States Northern 
                Command study of the possible concepts of operations 
                and of the implementation of the Homeland Response 
                Force plan in such a manner as to provide adequate 
                capability to provide Federal defense support to civil 
                authorities during domestic incidents involving weapons 
                of mass destruction.
                    (G) Any other matters the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Form of report.--The report required by this subsection 
        shall be in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1032. AUTHORITY TO MAKE EXCESS NONLETHAL SUPPLIES AVAILABLE FOR 
              DOMESTIC EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Availability for Domestic Emergency Assistance.--Section 2557 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by adding at the end the 
        following new sentence: ``In addition, the Secretary may make 
        any nonlethal excess supplies of the Department available to 
        support domestic emergency assistance activities.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Excess''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) Excess supplies made available under this section to support 
domestic emergency assistance activities shall be distributed in 
coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2557. Excess nonlethal supplies: availability for humanitarian 
              relief; domestic emergency assistance; and homeless 
              veterans assistance''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The item relating to section 2557 
        in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 152 of 
        such title is amended to read as follows:

``2557. Excess nonlethal supplies: availability for humanitarian 
                            relief; domestic emergency assistance; and 
                            homeless veterans assistance.''.

SEC. 1033. SALE OF SURPLUS MILITARY EQUIPMENT TO STATE AND LOCAL 
              HOMELAND SECURITY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCIES.

    (a) State and Local Agencies to Which Sales May Be Made.--Section 
2576 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``State and local law enforcement 
                and firefighting agencies'' and inserting ``State and 
                local law enforcement, firefighting, homeland security, 
                and emergency management agencies''; and
                    (B) by striking ``in carrying out law enforcement 
                and firefighting activities'' and inserting ``in 
                carrying out law enforcement, firefighting, homeland 
                security, and emergency management activities''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``State or local law 
        enforcement or firefighting agency'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``State or local law enforcement, firefighting, 
        homeland security, or emergency management agency''.
    (b) Types of Equipment That May Be Sold.--Subsection (a) of such 
section is further amended by striking ``and protective body armor'' 
and inserting ``personal protective equipment, and other appropriate 
equipment''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2576. Surplus military equipment: sale to State and local law 
              enforcement, firefighting, homeland security, and 
              emergency management agencies''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The item relating to section 2576 
        in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 153 of 
        such title is amended to read as follows:

``2576. Surplus military equipment: sale to State and local law 
                            enforcement, firefighting, homeland 
                            security, and emergency management 
                            agencies.''.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1041. NATIONAL GUARD SUPPORT TO SECURE THE SOUTHERN LAND BORDER OF 
              THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall deploy not fewer 
than 6,000 National Guard personnel to perform operations and missions 
under section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in the States 
along the southern land border of the United States for the purposes of 
assisting U.S. Customs and Border Protection in securing such border.
    (b) Assignment of Operations and Missions.--
            (1) In general.--National Guard units and personnel 
        deployed under subsection (a) may be assigned such operations 
        and missions as are necessary to secure the southern land 
        border of the United States.
            (2) Nature of duty.--Duty by National Guard personnel 
        performing such operations and missions shall be full-time 
        National Guard duty under title 32, United States Code.
    (c) Range of Operations and Missions.--The operations and missions 
assigned under subsection (b) shall include, but are not limited to, 
temporary authority to perform the following:
            (1) Construction of fencing, including double-layer and 
        triple-layer fencing.
            (2) Increasing ground-based mobile surveillance systems.
            (3) Deployment of additional unmanned aerial systems and 
        manned aircraft sufficient to maintain continuous surveillance 
        of the border.
            (4) Deployment and provision of capability for radio 
        communications interoperability between U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection and State, local, and tribal law enforcement 
        agencies.
            (5) Construction of checkpoints along the border to bridge 
        the gap to long-term permanent checkpoints.
            (6) Conduct of mobile patrols and provision of assistance 
        to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, particularly in rural, 
        high-trafficked areas, as designated by the Commissioner of 
        Customs and Border Protection.
    (d) Commencement and Completion of Initial Deployment.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall commence the deployment of National Guard 
units and personnel under subsection (a) to secure the southern land 
border of the United States not later than 72 hours after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and shall complete the deployment of initial 
units and personnel to that border for that purpose not later than 30 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Duration of Deployment.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
maintain the deployment of National Guard units and personnel along the 
southern land border of the United States until the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and 
the chief executive officers of the States adjoining such border, 
certifies to Congress that the Federal Government has achieved 
operational control of such border (as defined in section 2(b) of the 
Secure Fence Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-367)).
    (f) Materiel and Logistical Support.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall deploy such materiel and equipment and logistics support as is 
necessary to ensure success of the operations and missions conducted by 
the National Guard under subsection (a).
    (g) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall fund the 
        deployment of the National Guard under this section through 
        transfers of funds under section 1001 from lower priority 
        authorizations available to the Department of Defense.
            (2) Exception from aggregate limitation on transfers.--
        Amounts transferred for the deployment of the National Guard 
        under this section shall not be counted toward the dollar 
        limitation on the aggregate amount of transferred authorized 
        for fiscal year 2011 by section 1001(a)(2).
    (h) Exclusion From National Guard Personnel Strength Limitations.--
National Guard personnel deployed under subsection (a) shall not be 
included in the calculation to determine compliance with limits on end 
strength for National Guard personnel or on limits on the number of 
National Guard personal that may be placed on active duty for 
operational support under section 415 of this Act or 115 of title 10, 
United States Code.

SEC. 1042. PROHIBITION ON INFRINGING ON THE INDIVIDUAL RIGHT TO 
              LAWFULLY ACQUIRE, POSSESS, OWN, CARRY, AND OTHERWISE USE 
              PRIVATELY OWNED FIREARMS, AMMUNITION, AND OTHER WEAPONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
Secretary of Defense shall not prohibit, issue any requirement relating 
to, or collect or record any information relating to the otherwise 
lawful acquisition, possession, ownership, carrying, or other use of a 
privately-owned firearm, privately-owned ammunition, or another 
privately-owned weapon by a member of the Armed Forces or civilian 
employee of the Department of Defense on property that is not--
            (1) a military installation; or
            (2) any other property that is owned or operated by the 
        Department of Defense.
    (b) Existing Regulations and Records.--
            (1) Regulations.--Any regulation promulgated before the 
        date of enactment of this Act that requires conduct prohibited 
        by this section is null and void and shall have no force or 
        effect.
            (2) Records.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall destroy 
        any record containing information described in subsection (a) 
        that was collected before the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Subsection (a) shall not be construed to 
limit the authority of the Secretary of Defense to--
            (1) regulate the possession, carrying, or other use of a 
        firearm, ammunition, or other weapon by a member of the Armed 
        Forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense 
        while--
                    (A) engaged in official duties on behalf of the 
                Department of Defense; or
                    (B) wearing the uniform of an Armed Force; or
            (2) create or maintain records relating to an 
        investigation, prosecution, or adjudication of an alleged 
        violation of law (including regulations) not prohibited under 
        subsection (a), including matters related to whether a member 
        of the Armed Forces constitutes a threat to the member or 
        others.
    (d) Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) conduct a comprehensive review of the privately-owned 
        weapons policy of the Department of Defense, including legal 
        and policy issues regarding the regulation of privately-owned 
        firearms off of a military installation, as recommended by the 
        Department of Defense Independent Review Related to Fort Hood; 
        and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives a report regarding the findings of and 
        recommendations relating to the review conducted under 
        paragraph (1), including any recommendations for adjustments to 
        the requirements under this section.

SEC. 1043. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR THE TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    (a) Extension of Prohibition on Release.--Subsection (a) of section 
1041 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2454) is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2010'' and inserting ``December 31, 2011''.
    (b) Extension of Limitation on Transfer.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended by striking ``December 31, 2010'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2011''.

SEC. 1044. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF DETAINEES FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Limitation.--No funds authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Defense by this Act, or otherwise made available to the 
Department of Defense, may be used during the one-year period beginning 
on the date of the enactment of this Act to transfer a covered detainee 
from United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to a country 
where al Qaeda has an active presence.
    (b) Countries Where Al Qaeda Has an Active Presence.--For purposes 
of this section, a country where al Qaeda has an active presence means 
the following:
            (1) Afghanistan.
            (2) Pakistan.
            (3) Saudi Arabia.
            (4) Somalia.
            (5) Yemen.
    (c) Covered Detainee.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
detainee is any individual detained under United States custody at 
United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as of May 1, 2010.

SEC. 1045. CLARIFICATION OF RIGHT TO PLEAD GUILTY IN TRIAL OF CAPITAL 
              OFFENSE BY MILITARY COMMISSION.

    (a) Clarification of Right.--Section 949m(b)(2) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by inserting before the semicolon 
        the following: ``, or a guilty plea was accepted and not 
        withdrawn prior to announcement of the sentence in accordance 
        with section 949i(b) of this title''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``on the sentence'' 
        after ``vote was taken''.
    (b) Pre-trial Agreements.--Section 949i of such title is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Pre-trial Agreements.--(1) A plea of guilty made by the 
accused that is accepted by a military judge under subsection (b) and 
not withdrawn prior to announcement of the sentence may form the basis 
for an agreement reducing the maximum sentence approved by the 
convening authority, including the reduction of a sentence of death to 
a lesser punishment, or that the case will be referred to a military 
commission under this chapter without seeking the penalty of death. 
Such an agreement may provide for terms and conditions in addition to a 
guilty plea by the accused in order to be effective.
    ``(2) A plea agreement under this subsection may not provide for a 
sentence of death imposed by a military judge alone. A sentence of 
death may only be imposed by the votes of all members of a military 
commission concurring in the sentence of death as provided in section 
949m(b)(2)(D) of this title.''.

SEC. 1046. FISCAL YEAR 2011 ADMINISTRATION AND REPORT ON THE TROOPS-TO-
              TEACHERS PROGRAM.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2011 Administration.--Notwithstanding section 
2302(c) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 6672(c)), the Secretary of Defense shall administer the Troops-
to-Teachers Program during fiscal year 2011, and shall utilize amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense by this Act 
for that purpose.
    (b) Report.--Not later than April 1, 2011, the Secretary of Defense 
and the Secretary of Education shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the Troops-to-Teachers Program. The 
report shall include the following:
            (1) A detailed history of the Troops-to-Teachers Program.
            (2) A detailed description of the current administration of 
        the Troops-to-Teachers Program, and a description how the 
        program will be administered if transferred to the Department 
        of Defense.
            (3) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Troops-to-
        Teachers Program as a transition assistance program and in 
        incentivizing personnel leaving the military to enter the 
        teaching profession.
            (4) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Troops-to-
        Teachers Program in providing qualified teachers to public 
        schools, and recommendations regarding expansion of the program 
        to allow more local educational agencies to become eligible 
        employers of teachers under the program in order to satisfy the 
        transition goals of the program.
            (5) The rationale for the current administration of the 
        Troops-to-Teachers Program by the Department of Education, and 
        an assessment of the benefits of the administration of the 
        program by that department.
            (6) The rationale for the proposed transfer of the Troops-
        to-Teachers Program from the Department of Education to the 
        Department of Defense, and an assessment of the benefits of the 
        administration of the program by the Department of Defense if 
        transferred to the Department of Defense.
            (7) A description of any proposed modifications to the 
        Troops-to-Teachers Program if transferred to the Department of 
        Defense.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committees on Armed Services and Health, 
                Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committees on Armed Services and Education 
                and Labor of the House of Representatives.
            (2) The term ``Troops-to-Teachers Program'' means the 
        Troops-to-Teachers Program authorized by chapter A of subpart 1 
        of part C of title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6671 et seq.).

SEC. 1047. MILITARY IMPACTS OF RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS 
              AND OTHER ENERGY PROJECTS.

    (a) Objective.--It shall be the objective of the Department of 
Defense to ensure that the robust development of renewable energy 
sources and the expansion of the commercial electrical grid may move 
forward in the United States, while minimizing or mitigating any 
adverse impacts on military operations and readiness.
    (b) Designation of Senior Official and Lead Organization.--
            (1) Designation.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        designate a senior official of the Department of Defense, and a 
        lead organization of the Department of Defense, to be 
        responsible for addressing military impacts of renewable energy 
        development projects and other energy projects.
            (2) Resources.--The Secretary shall ensure that the senior 
        official and lead organization designated under paragraph (1) 
        are assigned such personnel and resources as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate to carry out this section.
    (c) Initial Actions.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
senior official and lead organization designated pursuant to subsection 
(b), shall--
            (1) conduct a preliminary review of pending renewable 
        energy development projects and other energy projects that are 
        known to the Department of Defense and that may have an adverse 
        impact on military operations and readiness, which review 
        shall, at a minimum, for each such project--
                    (A) assess the likely scope and duration of any 
                adverse impact of such project on military operations 
                and readiness; and
                    (B) identify any feasible and affordable actions 
                that could be taken in the immediate future by the 
                Department, the developer of such project, or others to 
                mitigate such adverse impact and to minimize risks to 
                national security while allowing such project to move 
                forward;
            (2) develop, in coordination with other departments and 
        agencies of the Federal Government, an integrated review 
        process to ensure timely notification and consideration of 
        proposed renewable energy development projects and other energy 
        projects that may have an adverse impact on military operations 
        and readiness;
            (3) establish procedures for the Department for the 
        coordinated consideration of and response to a request for a 
        review received from State and local officials or the developer 
        of a renewable energy development or other energy project, 
        including guidance to personnel at each military installation 
        in the United States on how to initiate such procedures and 
        ensure a coordinated Department response; and
            (4) develop procedures for conducting outreach to parties 
        carrying out renewable energy development projects and other 
        energy projects that could have an adverse impact on military 
        operations and readiness, and to the general public, to clearly 
        communicate notice on actions being taken by Department under 
        this section and to receive comments from such parties and the 
        general public on such actions.
    (d) Comprehensive Strategy.--
            (1) Strategy required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, 
        acting through the senior official and lead organization 
        designated pursuant to subsection (b), shall develop a 
        comprehensive strategy for addressing military impacts of 
        renewable energy development projects and other energy 
        projects.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) 
        shall, at a minimum, specifically identify feasible and 
        affordable long-term actions that may be taken to mitigate 
        adverse impacts of renewable energy development projects and 
        other energy projects on military operations and readiness, 
        including the following:
                    (A) Investments by the Department of Defense in 
                research and development.
                    (B) Acquisition of new systems by the Department 
                and other departments and agencies of the Federal 
                Government.
                    (C) Upgrades or modifications to existing systems 
                or procedures by the Department and other departments 
                and agencies of the Federal Government.
                    (D) Modifications of military operations.
                    (E) Modifications of renewable energy development 
                projects and other energy projects.
    (e) Determinations of Unacceptable Risk.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
        the Department of Defense does not object to a proposed private 
        sector renewable energy development project or other energy 
        project except in a case in which the Secretary determines, 
        after giving full consideration to mitigation actions 
        identified pursuant to this section, that such project would 
        result in an unacceptable risk to the national security. Not 
        later than 30 days after any such determination, the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report on such determination and the 
        basis for such determination.
            (2) Non-delegation of determinations.--Any determination of 
        unacceptable risk under this section may be made only by the 
        Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense, 
        without delegation, and after consideration of the 
        recommendation of the senior official designated pursuant to 
        subsection (b).
    (f) Reports.--Not later than March 15 each year from 2011 through 
2015, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
actions taken by the Department of Defense during the preceding year to 
implement this section and the comprehensive strategy developed 
pursuant to this section.

SEC. 1048. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REPORTS 
              REQUIRED BY LAW.

    (a) Public Availability.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended by inserting after section 122 the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 122a. Public availability of Department of Defense reports 
              required by law
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each 
report described in subsection (b) is made available to the public, 
upon request submitted on or after the date on which such report is 
submitted to Congress, through the Office of the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Public Affairs.
    ``(b) Covered Reports.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
report described in this subsection is any report that is required by 
law to be submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Defense, or by any 
element of the Department of Defense.
    ``(2) A report otherwise described in paragraph (1) is not a report 
described in this subsection if the report--
            ``(A) contains classified information;
            ``(B) contains proprietary information; or
            ``(C) is exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title 
        5 (commonly referred to as the `Freedom of Information 
        Act').''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 3 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 122 the following new item:

``122a. Public availability of Department of Defense reports required 
                            by law.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Section 122a of title 10, United States Code 
(as added by subsection (a)), shall take effect 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to reports 
that are required by law to be submitted to Congress on or after that 
date.

SEC. 1049. DEVELOPMENT OF CRITERIA AND METHODOLOGY FOR DETERMINING THE 
              SAFETY AND SECURITY OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of 
Defense shall, acting through the Nuclear Weapons Council, develop the 
following:
            (1) Criteria for determining the appropriate baseline for 
        safety and security of nuclear weapons.
            (2) A methodology for determining the level of safety and 
        security that may be achieved through a life extension program 
        for each type of nuclear weapon.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2011, the Secretary 
of Energy and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing the criteria and 
the methodology developed pursuant to subsection (a).

                          Subtitle F--Reports

SEC. 1061. REPORT ON POTENTIAL RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS ON MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth an analysis of 
the potential environmental, mission, and other costs and benefits of a 
program to develop renewable energy generation projects on land within 
the borders of military installations, including (in particular) 
installations with the greatest renewable energy resources and 
including installations consisting in whole or part of lands withdrawn 
from the public domain.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall address, 
at a minimum, the following:
            (1) An assessment of the extent to which renewable energy 
        generation at military installations could be conducted in a 
        manner consistent with the current and projected military 
        mission and other requirements of such installations.
            (2) An estimate of the renewable energy generation 
        potential at each military installation covered by the report 
        pursuant to renewable energy projects that could be conducted 
        in a manner consistent with the current and projected military 
        mission and other requirements of such installation.
            (3) A determination whether renewable energy projects at a 
        military installation covered by the report could reasonably be 
        expected to require significant new or upgraded electricity 
        transmission capacity within the boundaries of such 
        installation, and whether the infrastructure associated with 
        such new transmission capacity would be consistent with the 
        current and projected military mission and other requirements 
        of such installation.
            (4) An assessment of the financial, environmental, national 
        security, and other costs and benefits of renewable energy 
        development (including energy costs and benefits to the 
        Department of Defense) at each military installation covered by 
        the report.
            (5) An examination of existing legislative and regulatory 
        authorities, standards, requirements, and constraints for 
        renewable energy development on military installations covered 
        by the report, including any constraints that may negate or 
        limit the degree to which such renewable energy generation 
        directly enhances the energy security of such installations.
            (6) A description of the degree of variation in standards 
        and requirements applicable to on-installation renewable energy 
        development for different elements of the Department, with an 
        assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of developing 
        uniform standards and requirements applicable to on-
        installation renewable energy development for all facilities of 
        the Department.
            (7) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of--
                    (A) facilitating and incentivizing the development 
                of renewable energy projects on military installations; 
                and
                    (B) ensuring that such projects are carried out in 
                a manner that is both consistent with national security 
                requirements and enhances the energy security of such 
                installations.
    (c) Renewable Energy.--In this section, the term ``renewable 
energy'' has the meaning given to such term in Executive Order 13514, 
dated October 5, 2009.

SEC. 1062. REPORT ON USE OF DOMESTICALLY-PRODUCED ALTERNATIVE FUELS OR 
              TECHNOLOGIES BY VEHICLES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the following:
            (1) The use and potential use of domestically-produced 
        alternative fuels or technologies, including natural gas-based 
        fuels, in vehicles of the Department of Defense.
            (2) The actions being taken by the Department to meet 
        requirements on the use of alternative fuels in vehicles of the 
        Department through the use of each category of domestically-
        produced alternative fuels or technologies, including natural 
        gas-based fuels.
            (3) Actions that could be taken by the Department to 
        increase the use of alternative fuels in vehicles of the 
        Department through the use of domestically-produced alternative 
        fuels or technologies, including natural gas-based fuels.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the procurement of alternative fuel 
        vehicles and alternative fuels by the Department, and a 
        description of the installation by the Department of the 
        infrastructure associated with the use of such fuels in such 
        vehicles.
            (2) A description of the use by the Department of 
        alternative fuel vehicles and alternative fuels in non-
        deployable vehicles, including the role of natural gas-based 
        fuels and other domestically-produced alternative fuels or 
        technologies in the use of such vehicles.
            (3) A description and assessment of new requirements for 
        the increased use of alternative fuel vehicles (including 
        natural gas fuel vehicles) and domestically-produced 
        alternative fuels or technologies (including natural gas-based 
        fuels) by the Department, and a description of the research and 
        development, whether ongoing or anticipated, necessary to meet 
        such requirements.
            (4) A description and assessment of the current and 
        anticipated commercial availability of domestically-produced 
        alternative fuels or technologies (including natural gas-based 
        fuels) for vehicles, including facilities for the production, 
        storage, transportation, distribution, and commercial sale of 
        such fuels or technologies for vehicles.
            (5) A projection of the manner in which the Department 
        could provide for the wider use of domestically-produced 
        alternative fuels or technologies (including natural gas-based 
        fuels) in vehicles, including an examination of factors such as 
        regional availability and economic feasibility.
            (6) A description and assessment of the current and 
        anticipated commercial availability of alternative fuel 
        vehicles, including natural gas fuel vehicles, and a 
        description and assessment of the actions the Department could 
        initiate with original equipment manufacturers to meet 
        alternative fuel vehicle mandates.
            (7) A description and assessment of the use of 
        infrastructure for fueling alternative fuel vehicles, including 
        natural gas fuel vehicles, on military installations in the 
        United States, including the use of publically-available 
        commercial infrastructure for that purpose.
            (8) A description of the infrastructure (including any 
        storage and distribution facilities) for delivering alternative 
        fuels (including natural gas) on military installations in the 
        United States that could be adapted, converted, or supplemented 
        for the delivery of such fuels to vehicles, and an assessment 
        of feasibility and advisability of the adaptation, conversion, 
        or supplement of such infrastructure for that purpose, 
        including--
                    (A) an assessment of the cost of the adaptation or 
                conversation of such infrastructure; and
                    (B) an assessment of the cost of supplementing such 
                infrastructure.
            (9) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure that 
        the Department meets goals and targets for the use of 
        alternative fuel vehicles and alternative fuels, including 
        through the use of natural gas fuel vehicles and natural gas-
        based fuels.
    (c) Preparation of Report.--
            (1) Vehicles and infrastructure.--The Secretary may, using 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated by this division, procure 
        and utilize nondeployable vehicles and appropriate 
        infrastructure for purposes of the report required by 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with such 
        heads of other departments and agencies of the Federal 
        Government as the Secretary considers appropriate in preparing 
        the report.

SEC. 1063. REPORT ON ROLE AND UTILITY OF NON-LETHAL WEAPONS AND 
              TECHNOLOGIES IN COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Department of Defense should support the research, development, 
procurement, and fielding of non-lethal weapons and technologies 
explicitly designed to reduce military casualties and fatalities, 
improve military mission accomplishment and operational effectiveness, 
and reduce civilian casualties and fatalities (and undesired damage to 
property and the environment) in counterinsurgency operations.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the role and utility of non-lethal weapons and technologies 
        in counterinsurgency operations.
            (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) A description of the manner in which non-lethal 
                weapons and technologies currently under research and 
                development may be used to reduce military casualties 
                and fatalities in counterinsurgency operations.
                    (B) A description of the manner in which non-lethal 
                weapons and technologies currently under research and 
                development may be used to reduce civilian casualties 
                and fatalities in counterinsurgency operations.
                    (C) A description of the extent to which non-lethal 
                weapons and technologies are incorporated into the 
                integrated priority list of the commanders of each of 
                the geographic combatant commands, and into the budgets 
                of the military departments.
                    (D) A description of the training provided to 
                military personnel to utilize non-lethal weapons and 
                technologies.
                    (E) A description of any lessons learned from the 
                employment of non-lethal weapons and technologies in 
                military operations.

SEC. 1064. REPORT ON UNITED STATES EFFORTS TO DEFEND AGAINST THREATS 
              POSED BY THE ANTI-ACCESS AND AREA-DENIAL CAPABILITIES OF 
              CERTAIN NATION-STATES.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the 2010 report on the Department 
of Defense Quadrennial Defense Review concludes that ``[a]nti-access 
strategies seek to deny outside countries the ability to project power 
into a region, thereby allowing aggression or other destabilizing 
actions to be conducted by the anti-access power. Without dominant 
capabilities to project power, the integrity of United States alliances 
and security partnerships could be called into question, reducing 
United States security and influence and increasing the possibility of 
conflict''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, in light 
of the finding in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense should 
ensure that the United States has the appropriate authorities, 
capabilities, and force structure to defend against any potential 
future threats posed by the anti-access and area-denial capabilities of 
potentially hostile foreign countries.
    (c) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2011, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report on United States efforts to 
defend against any potential future threats posed by the anti-access 
and area-denial capabilities of potentially hostile nation-states.
    (d) Elements.--The report required under subsection (c) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An assessment of any potential future threats posed by 
        the anti-access and area-denial capabilities of potentially 
        hostile foreign countries, including an identification of the 
        foreign countries with such capabilities, the nature of such 
        capabilities, and the possible advances in such capabilities 
        over the next 10 years.
            (2) A description of any efforts by the Department of 
        Defense to address the potential future threats posed by the 
        anti-access and area-denial capabilities of potentially hostile 
        foreign countries.
            (3) A description of the authorities, capabilities, and 
        force structure that the United States may require over the 
        next 10 years to address the threats posed by the anti-access 
        and area-denial capabilities of potentially hostile foreign 
        countries.
    (e) Form.--The report required under subsection (c) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex if 
necessary.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``anti-access'', with respect to capabilities, 
        means any action that has the effect of slowing the deployment 
        of friendly forces into a theater, preventing such forces from 
        operating from certain locations within that theater, or 
        causing such forces to operate from distances farther from the 
        locus of conflict than such forces would normally prefer.
            (2) The term ``area-denial'', with respect to capabilities, 
        means operations aimed to prevent freedom of action of friendly 
        forces in the more narrow confines of the area under a 
        potentially hostile nation-state's direct control, including 
        actions by an adversary in the air, on land, and on and under 
        the sea to contest and prevent joint operations within a 
        defended battlespace.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1081. TECHNICAL, CONFORMING, AND UPDATING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Modernization of Section 172.--Section 172 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a)'' before ``The Secretaries''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).
    (b) Technical Amendments.--Section 382 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``section 175 or 2332c'' in subsections 
(a), (b)(2)(C), and (d)(2)(A)(ii) and inserting ``section 175, 229, or 
2332a''
    (c) Definitions Under Defense Environmental Restoration Program.--
Chapter 160 of title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) Section 2700(2) is amended by inserting ```pollutant or 
        contaminant','' after `` `person',''.
            (2) Section 2701(b)(1) is amended by striking ``substances, 
        pollutants, and'' and inserting ``substances, and pollutants 
        or''.
    (d) Reduced Reporting Time Limits for Reports Submitted in 
Electronic Media.--
            (1) Section 2694a(e) of title 10 United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``or, if earlier, a period of 14 days has elapsed 
        from the date on which a copy of the notification is provided 
        in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this 
        title''.
            (2) Section 2806(c)(2)(B) of such title is amended by 
        inserting before the period at the end the following: ``or, if 
        earlier, a period of 14 days has elapsed from the date on which 
        a copy of the report is provided in an electronic medium 
        pursuant to section 480 of this title''.
            (3) Section 2814(g)(2) of such title is amended by 
        inserting before the period at the end the following: ``or, if 
        earlier, a period of 20 days has elapsed from the date on which 
        a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium 
        pursuant to section 480 of this title''.
            (4) Section 2828(f)(2) of such title is amended by 
        inserting before the period at the end the following: ``or, if 
        earlier, a period of 14 days has elapsed from the date on which 
        a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic medium 
        pursuant to section 480 of this title''.
            (5) Section 2835(g)(2) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``calendar''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``or, if earlier, a period of 14 days has 
                elapsed from the date on which a copy of the analysis 
                is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 
                480 of this title''.
            (6) Section 2881a(e)(2) is amended by inserting before the 
        period at the end the following: ``or, if earlier, a period of 
        20 days has elapsed from the date on which a copy of the report 
        is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of 
        this title''.
            (7) Section 2884(a)(4) of such title is amended by 
        inserting before the period at the end the following: ``or, if 
        earlier, a period of 20 days has elapsed from the date on which 
        a copy of the report is provided in an electronic medium 
        pursuant to section 480 of this title''.
    (e) Transfer of Section 2814.--
            (1) Transfer and amendment.--Section 2814 of title 10, 
        United States Code, as amended by subsection (d)(3), is 
        transferred to chapter 631, inserted after section 7205 and 
        redesignated as section 7206.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Such section, as so transferred 
        and redesignated, is further amended--
                    (A) in paragraphs (2) and (3)(B) of subsection (i), 
                by striking ``this chapter'' and inserting ``chapter 
                169 of this title''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (l) and inserting the 
                following new subsection (l):
    ``(l) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `appropriate committees of Congress' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 2801 of this title.
            ``(2) The term `property support services' means the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Any utility service or other service listed 
                in section 2686(a) of this title.
                    ``(B) Any other service determined by the Secretary 
                to be a service that supports the operation and 
                maintenance of real property, personal property, or 
                facilities.''.
            (3) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) The table of sections at the beginning of 
                chapter 169 of such title is amended by striking the 
                item relating to section 2814.
                    (B) The table of sections at the beginning of 
                chapter 631 of such title is amended by inserting after 
                the item relating to section 7205 the following new 
                item:

``7206. Special authority for development of Ford Island, Hawaii.''.
    (f) Amendments to Public Law 111-84.--Effective as if included in 
the enactment thereof, section 1202(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2512) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1208(f) of the Ronald W. Reagan National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-
        375; 118 Stat. 2086) is amended in the second sentence'' and 
        inserting ``1208(f)(2) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 
        Stat. 2086), as amended by section 1202(a) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-
        181; 122 Stat. 363), is further amended''; and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (8), as 
        proposed to be inserted, as subparagraphs (A) through (H), 
        respectively and indenting the left margin of such 
        subparagraphs, as so redesignated, 4 ems from the left margin.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

SEC. 1101. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PERSONNEL 
              DEMONSTRATION LABORATORIES.

    (a) Correction to Cross Reference for Direct Hire Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (b) of section 1108 of the 
        Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4618; 10 U.S.C. 1580 
        note) is amended by striking ``identified'' and all that 
        follows and inserting ``designated by section 1105(a) of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public 
        Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2486; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) as a 
        Department of Defense science and technology reinvention 
        laboratory.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on October 28, 2009, the date of the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84).
    (b) Modification of Personnel Ceiling in Utilization of Direct Hire 
Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (c)(1) of section 1108 of the 
        Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2009 is amended by striking ``2 percent'' and inserting 
        ``5 percent''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Corrections to Cross Reference for Requirements for Full 
Implementation of Personnel Demonstration Project.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1107 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
        Stat. 357) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a) by striking ``exempted by'' 
                and all that follows and inserting ``designated by 
                section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
                Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
                2486; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) as Department of Defense 
                science and technology reinvention laboratories.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``as 
                enumerated'' and all that follows and inserting 
                ``designated as described in subsection (a).''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on October 28, 2009.
    (d) Correction to Section Reference.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1121 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (123 Stat. 2505) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Section 
                9902(h) of title 5, United States Code'' and inserting 
                ``Section 9902(g) of title 5, United States Code, as 
                redesignated by section 1113(b)(1)(B)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``section 
                9902(h) of such title 5'' and inserting ``such 
                section''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on October 28, 2009, as if included in the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2010, to which such amendments relate.

SEC. 1102. REQUIREMENTS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SENIOR MENTORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall issue appropriate 
policies and procedures to ensure that all senior mentors employed by 
the Department of Defense are--
            (1) hired as highly qualified experts under section 9903 of 
        title 5, United States Code; and
            (2) required to comply with all applicable Federal laws and 
        regulations on personnel and ethics matters.
    (b) Senior Mentor Defined.--In this section, the term ``senior 
mentor'' means a retired flag, general, or other military officer or 
retired senior civilian official who provides expert experience-based 
mentoring, teaching, training, advice, and recommendations to senior 
military officers, staffs, and students as they participate in war 
games, warfighting courses, operational planning, operational 
exercises, and decision-making exercises.

SEC. 1103. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
              ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR 
              FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

    Effective January 1, 2011, section 1101(a) of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as amended by section 1106(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2487), is further amended by striking ``calendar years 2009 and 
2010'' and inserting ``calendar years 2009 through 2011''.

SEC. 1104. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF ENHANCED DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION AUTHORITY FOR PERSONNEL FOR 
              CARE AND TREATMENT OF WOUNDED AND INJURED MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Designation of Occupations Covered by Recruitment and 
Appointment Authority.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 1599c of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (i)--
                            (i) by striking ``medical or health 
                        professional positions'' and inserting ``health 
                        care occupation''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``shortage category 
                        positions'' and inserting ``a shortage category 
                        occupation or critical need occupation''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``highly qualified 
                persons directly'' and inserting ``qualified persons 
                directly in the competitive service''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) Any designation by the Secretary for purposes of subparagraph 
(A)(i) shall be based on an analysis of current and future Department 
of Defense workforce requirements.''.
    (b) Extension.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``under subsection (a)(1)'' after 
                ``Secretary of Defense''; and
                    (B) by striking ``September 30, 2012'' and 
                inserting ``December 31, 2015''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 2012'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2015''.

SEC. 1105. DESIGNATION OF SPACE AND MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNICAL CENTER OF 
              THE U.S. ARMY SPACE AND MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND/ARMY 
              FORCES STRATEGIC COMMAND AS A DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORY.

    Section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2486; 10 U.S.C. 2358 
note) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(18) The Space and Missile Defense Technical Center of 
        the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command/Army Forces 
        Strategic Command.''.

SEC. 1106. TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES PAID SAVED OR RETAINED 
              RATES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1918(a)(3) of the Non-Foreign Area 
Retirement Equity Assurance Act of 2009 (5 U.S.C. 5304 note) is amended 
by striking ``January 1, 2012'' and inserting ``January 1, 2010''.
    (b) Interim Pay Adjustments.--
            (1) Adjustments.--
                    (A) In general.--Until the Director of the Office 
                of Personnel Management prescribes regulations in 
                accordance with the amendment made by subsection (a), 
                for employees receiving a cost-of-living allowance 
                under section 5941 of title 5, United States Code, and 
                a retained rate under section 5363 of that title, 
                agencies shall--
                            (i) calculate the adjustment under section 
                        5363(b)(2)(B) of that title based on a maximum 
                        rate of basic pay, excluding any locality-based 
                        comparability payment; and
                            (ii) provide an additional adjustment 
                        reflecting the full increase in the locality-
                        based comparability payment that would apply to 
                        the employee but for receipt of a retained 
                        rate.
                    (B) Guidance.--Not later than 30 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
                Office of Personnel Management shall issue guidance for 
                carrying out paragraph (1).
                    (C) Other pay systems.--For employees in another 
                pay system that receive a retained rate equivalent to a 
                retained rate under section 5363 of title 5, United 
                States Code, equivalent treatment shall be provided, 
                consistent with section 1918(b) of the Non-Foreign Area 
                Retirement Equity Assurance Act of 2009.

SEC. 1107. RATE OF OVERTIME PAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY EMPLOYEES 
              PERFORMING WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              NUCLEAR AIRCRAFT CARRIER HOME-PORTED IN JAPAN.

    (a) Overtime Pay at Time-and-a-half Rate.--Section 5542(a) of title 
5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
            ``(6)(A) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), for an 
        employee of the Department of the Navy who is assigned to 
        temporary duty to perform work aboard, or dockside in direct 
        support of, the nuclear aircraft carrier that is home-ported in 
        Japan and who would be nonexempt under the Fair Labor Standards 
        Act but for the application of the foreign area exemption in 
        section 13(f) of that Act (29 U.S.C. 213(f)), the overtime 
        hourly rate of pay is an amount equal to one and one-half times 
        the hourly rate of basic pay of the employee, and all that 
        amount is premium pay.
            ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall expire on September 30, 
        2014.''.
    (b) Reports.--
            (1) Secretary of navy report.--Not later than September 30, 
        2013, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Secretary 
        of Defense and the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management a report that--
                    (A) describes the use of the authority under 
                paragraph (6) of section 5542(a) of title 5, United 
                States Code, as added by subsection (a), including 
                associated costs, and including an evaluation of extent 
                to which exercise of the authority helped the Navy in 
                meeting its mission; and
                    (B) provides a recommendation on whether an 
                extension of the provisions of that paragraph is 
                needed.
            (2) Report to congress.--Not later than March 31, 2014, the 
        Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall submit to 
        the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Oversight and 
        Governmental Reform of the House of Representatives a report 
        that--
                    (A) addresses the use of paragraph (6) of section 
                5542(a) of title 5, United States Code, as so added, 
                including associated costs, and including an evaluation 
                of the extent to which exercise of the authority helped 
                the Navy in meeting its mission;
                    (B) describes the extent to which other employees 
                experience the same circumstances as were experienced 
                by those described in that paragraph before its 
                enactment;
                    (C) provides an analysis of the advantages and 
                disadvantages that would be anticipated from extending 
                the expiration date of the authority under that 
                paragraph, and from expanding the authority under that 
                paragraph to include other employees; and
                    (D) conveys the report of the Secretary of the Navy 
                referred to in paragraph (1).

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Training and Assistance

SEC. 1201. ADDITION OF ALLIED GOVERNMENT AGENCIES TO ENHANCED LOGISTICS 
              INTEROPERABILITY AUTHORITY.

    (a) Enhanced Interoperability Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 
127d of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Subject to'';
            (2) by striking the second sentence; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) In addition to any logistic support, supplies, and services 
provided under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may provide 
logistic support, supplies, and services to allied forces solely for 
the purpose of enhancing the interoperability of the logistical support 
systems of military forces participating in combined operations with 
the United States in order to facilitate such operations. Such logistic 
support, supplies, and services may also be provided under this 
paragraph to a nonmilitary logistics, security, or similar agency of an 
allied government if such provision would directly benefit the armed 
forces of the United States.
    ``(3) Provision of support, supplies, and services pursuant to 
paragraph (1) or (2) may be made only with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Subsection (b) of such section is amended by striking 
        ``subsection (a)'' in paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting 
        ``subsection (a)(1)''.
            (2) Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Except as provided in 
                        paragraph (2), the'' and inserting ``The''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``this section'' and 
                        inserting ``subsection (a)(1)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``In addition'' 
                and all that follows through ``fiscal year,'' and 
                inserting ``The value of the logistic support, 
                supplies, and services provided under subsection (a)(2) 
                in any fiscal year may not''.

SEC. 1202. EXPANSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO USE ACQUISITION AND 
              CROSS-SERVICING AGREEMENTS TO LEND CERTAIN MILITARY 
              EQUIPMENT TO CERTAIN FOREIGN FORCES FOR PERSONNEL 
              PROTECTION AND SURVIVABILITY.

    (a) Expansion for Training for Deployment.--Paragraph (3) of 
section 1202(a) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2412), as most 
recently amended by section 1252(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 
402), is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``only in Iraq or Afghanistan, or in a 
        peacekeeping operation described in paragraph (1), as 
        applicable, and''; and
            (2) by striking ``those forces.'' and inserting ``those 
        forces and only--
                    ``(A) in Iraq or Afghanistan;
                    ``(B) in a peacekeeping operation described in 
                paragraph (1); or
                    ``(C) in connection with the training of those 
                forces to be deployed to Iraq, Afghanistan, or a 
                peacekeeping operation described in paragraph (1) for 
                such deployment.''.
    (b) Notice and Wait on Exercise of Additional Authority.--Such 
section is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(5) Notice and wait on provision of equipment for certain 
        purposes.--Equipment may not be provided under paragraph (1) in 
        connection with training as specified in paragraph (3)(C) until 
        15 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
        submits to the specified congressional committees written 
        notice on the provision of such equipment for such purpose.''.

SEC. 1203. AUTHORITY TO BUILD THE CAPACITY OF YEMEN MINISTRY OF 
              INTERIOR COUNTER TERRORISM FORCES.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, provide assistance during fiscal year 2011 
to enhance the ability of the Yemen Ministry of Interior Counter 
Terrorism Forces to conduct counterterrorism operations against al 
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and its affiliates.
    (b) Types of Assistance.--
            (1) Authorized elements.--Assistance under subsection (a) 
        may include the provision of equipment, supplies, and training.
            (2) Required elements.--Assistance under subsection (a) 
        shall be provided in a manner that promotes--
                    (A) observance of and respect for human rights and 
                fundamental freedoms; and
                    (B) respect for legitimate civilian authority in 
                Yemen.
            (3) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.--The Secretary 
        of Defense may not use the authority in subsection (a) to 
        provide any type of assistance described in this subsection 
        that is otherwise prohibited by any provision of law.
    (c) Funding.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by 
section 301 for operation and maintenance for fiscal year 2011, 
$75,000,000 may be utilized to provide assistance under subsection (a).
    (d) Notice to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not less than 15 days before providing 
        assistance under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the committees of Congress specified in paragraph (2) 
        a notice setting forth the assistance to be provided, including 
        the types of such assistance, the budget for such assistance, 
        and the completion date for the provision of such assistance.
            (2) Committees of congress.--The committees of Congress 
        specified in this paragraph are--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations 
                of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1204. AUTHORITY TO PAY PERSONNEL EXPENSES IN CONNECTION WITH 
              AFRICAN COOPERATION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 53 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1050 the following new section:
``Sec. 1050a. African cooperation: payment of personnel expenses
    ``The Secretary of a military department may pay the travel, 
subsistence, and special compensation of officers and students of 
African countries and other expenses that the Secretary considers 
necessary for African cooperation.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 53 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1050 the following new item:

``1050a. African cooperation: payment of personnel expenses.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2010.

    Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY 
              RESPONSE PROGRAM AND RELATED AUTHORITIES.

    (a) One-year Extension of CERP Authority.--Section 1202(a) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
109-163; 119 Stat. 3455), as most recently amended by section 1222 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123. Stat. 2518), is further amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Fiscal Year 
        2010'' and inserting ``Fiscal Year 2011'';
            (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2010'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2011''; and
            (3) by striking ``$1,300,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$900,000,000''.
    (b) One-year Extension of Authority To Transfer Funds for Support 
of Afghanistan National Solidarity Program.--Subsection (d) of section 
1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2010'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2011''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``September 30, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``September 30 2011''.
    (c) One-year Extension of Authority for Use of Funds for 
Reintegration Activities in Afghanistan.--Subsection (e) of section 
1222 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2010'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2011''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``September 30, 2010'' 
        and inserting ``September 30 2011''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2010.

SEC. 1212. INCREASE IN TEMPORARY LIMITATION ON AMOUNT FOR BUILDING 
              CAPACITY OF FOREIGN MILITARY FORCES TO PARTICIPATE IN OR 
              SUPPORT MILITARY AND STABILITY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Increase.--Section 1206(c)(5) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 
3456), as most recently amended by section 1206 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-81; 123 Stat. 
2514), is further amended by striking ``$75,000,000 may be used during 
fiscal year 2011'' and inserting ``$100,000,000 may be used during 
fiscal year 2011''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2010.

SEC. 1213. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN 
              COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
              MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 122 Stat. 393), as amended by section 1223 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2519), is further amended by striking ``section 1509(5) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010'' and inserting 
``section 1503 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2011''.
    (b) Limitation on Amount.--Subsection (d)(1) of such section, as so 
amended, is further amended in the second sentence by inserting ``or 
2011'' after ``fiscal year 2010''.
    (c) Exception From Notice to Congress Requirements.--Subsection (e) 
of such section, as so amended, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``(e) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary of 
        Defense'' and inserting the following:
    ``(e) Notice to Congress.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of Defense''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Exception.--The requirement to provide notice under 
        paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to a reimbursement 
        for access based on an international agreement.''.
    (d) Submittal of Guidance on Use of Authority for Related Other 
Support.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (g), as added by such 
        amendments, as subsection (h); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsection (g):
    ``(g) Submittal of Guidance on Authority for Other Support.--
            ``(1) Initial submittal.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2011, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees a copy of the guidance 
        issued by the Secretary to the Armed Forces for the purpose of 
        the provision of support authorized by subsection (b).
            ``(2) Modifications.--If the guidance in effect for the 
        purpose stated in paragraph (1) is modified, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a copy 
        of the modification not later than 15 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary makes the modification.''.
    (e) Extension of Notice Requirement Relating to Reimbursement of 
Pakistan for Support Provided by Pakistan.--Section 1232(b)(6) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 
393), as most recently amended by section 1223 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, is further amended by striking 
``September 30, 2011'' and inserting ``September 30, 2012''.

SEC. 1214. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF PAKISTAN COUNTERINSURGENCY 
              FUND.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1224 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2521) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' both places 
it appears and inserting ``September 30, 2011''.
    (b) Required Elements of Assistance.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Required elements of assistance.--Assistance provided 
        to the security forces of Pakistan under this section in a 
        fiscal year after fiscal year 2010 shall be provided in a 
        manner that promotes--
                    ``(A) observance of and respect for human rights 
                and fundamental freedoms; and
                    ``(B) respect for legitimate civilian authority 
                within Pakistan.''.

SEC. 1215. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
              PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY 
              FORCES OF IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 1234 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2532) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2011''.
    (b) Quarterly Reports.--Subsection (f)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``during fiscal year 2010'' and inserting ``through 
March 31, 2012''.

SEC. 1216. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORTS ON TRAINING OF AFGHAN NATIONAL 
              POLICE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States has had an expanded role in efforts 
        to create and sustain Afghan National Police forces since 2002, 
        including through training the Uniformed Police, the Afghan 
        National Civil Order Police (ANCOP), the Border Police, the 
        Counter Narcotics Police, the Criminal Investigation Police, 
        and the Counter Terrorism Police.
            (2) Entities involved in the current Afghan National Police 
        training program include the International Security Assistance 
        Force (ISAF), the combined North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Training Mission-Afghanistan (NTM-A), the Combined Security 
        Transition Command-Afghanistan (CSTC-A) of the Department of 
        Defense, the Department of State, the Civilian Police (CIVPOL) 
        Program of the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law 
        Enforcement Affair (INL), and the Afghan Ministry of the 
        Interior (MOI).
            (3) As recently as February 2010, the Inspectors General of 
        the Department of Defense and the Department of State found 
        serious deficiencies in the management of the training program 
        for the Afghan National Police, due in part to poor 
        coordination between the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of State, and that these deficiencies were adversely 
        affecting the development of an Afghan National Police force.
            (4) A trained Afghan National Police force capable of being 
        sustained by the Government of Afghanistan is critical to the 
        success of the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.
            (5) An April 15, 2010 hearing by the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Government Affairs of the Senate noted that there 
        were systemic problems in Afghanistan in the coordination of 
        Department of Defense, Department of State, and North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization (NATO) coalition police training and rule 
        of law programs and a lack of contract management personnel to 
        ensure adequate performance of such programs.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States Government should take measurable actions to--
            (1) improve its capacity to advise and mentor the Afghan 
        National Police through--
                    (A) more effective and efficient police training 
                programs;
                    (B) enhanced oversight of contracts for police 
                training;
                    (C) the enhancement of personnel and promotion 
                systems for members of the Armed Forces to reward 
                officers serving as advisors, mentors, and trainers for 
                foreign forces such as the Afghan National Police; and
                    (D) the provision of adequate funding for the 
                Afghan National Police training program; and
            (2) clarify the roles, missions, and responsibilities of 
        the departments and agencies of the United States Government 
        for police training and the rule of law operations and improve 
        the structuring of such responsibilities so that such 
        departments and agencies have clear operational structures, 
        sufficient funding and support, effective oversight, and clear 
        chains of command and leadership with respect to such 
        responsibilities.
    (c) DoD Inspector General Report on Afghan National Police Training 
Program.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Defense shall, in consultation with the Inspector 
        General of the Department of State, submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a report on the Afghan National Police 
        training program.
            (2) Review.--In preparing the report required by paragraph 
        (1), the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall 
        conduct a review of the Afghan National Police training program 
        that focuses on developments since the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Defense and the Inspector General of the 
        Department of State released the report entitled ``Department 
        of Defense Obligations and Expenditures of Funds Provided to 
        the Department of State for the Training and Mentoring of the 
        Afghan National Police'' (DODIG Report No. D-2010-042, DOSIG 
        Report No. MERO-A-10-06, February 9, 2010).
            (3) Elements of report.--The report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the components, planning, and 
                scope of the Afghan National Police training program 
                since the United States assumed control of the program 
                in 2003.
                    (B) A description of the cost to the United States 
                of the Afghan National Police training program, 
                including the source and amount of funding, and a 
                description of the allocation of responsibility between 
                the Department of Defense and the Department of State 
                for funding the program.
                    (C) A description of the allocation of 
                responsibility between the Department of Defense and 
                the Department of State for the oversight and execution 
                of the program.
                    (D) A description of the personnel and staffing 
                requirements for overseeing and executing the program, 
                both in the United States and in theater, including 
                United States civilian government and military 
                personnel, contractor personnel, and nongovernmental 
                personnel, and non-United States civilian and military 
                personnel, contractor personnel, and nongovernmental 
                personnel.
                    (E) An assessment of the cost, performance metrics, 
                and planning associated with the transfer of 
                administration of the contract for the Afghan National 
                Police training program from the Department of State to 
                the Department of Defense.
    (d) GAO Report on Use of Government Personnel Rather Than 
Contractors for Training Afghan National Police.--
            (1) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall, in consultation with the Department of Defense 
        and the Department of State, submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a report on the use of United States 
        Government personnel rather than contractors for the training 
        of the Afghan National Police.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of transferring performance of the Afghan 
                National Police training program from contractors to 
                United States Government personnel, including an 
                assessment of--
                            (i) the shortfalls and inefficiencies in 
                        contractor performance of the Afghan National 
                        Police training program;
                            (ii) the capacity of United States 
                        Government personnel available to address the 
                        shortfalls and inefficiencies described in 
                        clause (i) and to meet anticipated future needs 
                        under the Afghan National Police training 
                        program; and
                            (iii) options for leveraging United States 
                        Government resources and capacity to better 
                        address current and future needs under the 
                        Afghan National Police training program.
                    (B) An assessment of the impact for oversight, cost 
                considerations, performance, policy, and other 
                appropriate matters of transferring performance of the 
                Afghan National Police training program from 
                contractors to United States Government personnel.
                    (C) An assessment of the lessons learned from the 
                execution and oversight of the police training program 
                in Iraq, and other applicable police training programs 
                led by the Department of Defense, regarding the 
                relative advantages and disadvantages of using United 
                States Government personnel or contractors to perform 
                the Afghan National Police training program.
    (e) Report on Police Training and Rule of Law Programs Abroad.--
            (1) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
        Secretary of State, and the Attorney General, submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the strategy for 
        police training and rule of law programs in Afghanistan, Iraq, 
        and elsewhere abroad.
            (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the requirements for programs 
                related to police training and the rule of law abroad.
                    (B) Recommendations on the role of the Department 
                of Defense in carrying out police training and rule of 
                law programs abroad.
                    (C) Recommendations on the manner in which police 
                training and rule of law missions of the United States 
                Government abroad should be structured so that these 
                missions have clear operational structures.
                    (D) Recommendations on the manner in which the 
                Department of Defense should coordinate with other 
                departments and agencies of the United States 
                Government engaged in police training and rule of law 
                activities abroad, in supported and supporting roles.
                    (E) Recommendations on appropriate funding and 
                support for the Department of Defense to carry out 
                Department programs for police training and rule of law 
                activities abroad.
                    (F) Recommendations on mechanisms for effective 
                oversight of Department of Defense programs for police 
                training and rule of law activities abroad.
                    (G) A specification of clear chains of command and 
                leadership within the Department of Defense programs 
                for police training and rule of law activities abroad.
    (f) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign Relations, 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and Appropriations 
        of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, 
        Oversight and Government Reform, and Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

                          Subtitle C--Reports

SEC. 1231. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF REPORT ON PROGRESS TOWARD SECURITY AND 
              STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.

    Section 1230(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 385), as amended by 
section 1236 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010 (Public Law 111-81; 123 Stat. 2535), is further amended by 
striking ``2011'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 1232. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION OF UNITED STATES PLAN FOR SUSTAINING THE 
              AFGHANISTAN NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES.

    Section 1231(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 390) is amended by 
striking ``2010'' and inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 1233. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR COALITION 
              OPERATIONS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives a report on the implementation 
of the coalition support authorities of the Department of Defense 
during Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the purpose and use of each coalition 
        support authority of the Department of Defense.
            (2) For the period of Operation Enduring Freedom ending on 
        September 30, 2010, a summary of the amount of training, 
        equipment, services, or other assistance provided or loaned 
        under any coalition support authority of the Department of 
        Defense set forth, for each such authority, by amount provided 
        or loaned during each fiscal year of such period for each 
        recipient country.
            (3) For the period of Operation Iraqi Freedom ending on 
        September 30, 2010, a summary of the amount of training, 
        equipment, services, or other assistance provided or loaned 
        under any coalition support authority of the Department of 
        Defense set forth, for each such authority, by amount provided 
        or loaned during each fiscal year of such period for each 
        recipient country.
            (4) An assessment of the effectiveness of each coalition 
        support authority of the Department of Defense in meeting its 
        intended purpose.
            (5) For each recipient country of coalition support under a 
        coalition support authority of the Department of Defense--
                    (A) a description of the contribution of such 
                country to coalition operations in Operation Enduring 
                Freedom or Operating Iraqi Freedom; and
                    (B) an assessment of the extent to which coalition 
                support provided by the United States enhanced the 
                ability of such country to participate in coalition 
                operations in Operation Enduring Freedom or Operating 
                Iraqi Freedom.
            (6) A description of the actions taken by the Department 
        Defense to eliminate duplication and overlap in coalition 
        support provided under the coalition support authorities of the 
        Department of Defense.
            (7) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense whether there 
        is an ongoing need for each coalition support authority of the 
        Department of Defense, and an estimate of the anticipated 
        future demand for coalition support under such coalition 
        support authorities.
    (c) Coalition Support Authorities of the Department of Defense 
Defined .--In this section, the term ``coalition support authorities of 
the Department of Defense'' means the following:
            (1) Coalition Support Funds, including the authority to 
        provide specialized training and loan specialized equipment 
        under the Coalition Support Fund (commonly referred to as the 
        ``Coalition Readiness Support Program'').
            (2) Lift and sustain authority under Appropriations acts or 
        under section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394).
            (3) Global lift and sustain authority under section 127c of 
        title 10, United States Code.
            (4) The authority to provide logistic support, supplies, 
        and services to allied forces participating in combined 
        operations under section 127d of title 10, United States Code.
            (5) The temporary authority to lend significant military 
        equipment under acquisition and cross-servicing agreements 
        pursuant to section 1202 of the John Warner National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364).
            (6) The authority under section 1206 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-
        163) to provide assistance to build the capacity of foreign 
        nations to support military or stability operations in which 
        the United States Armed Forces are a participant.
            (7) Any other authority that the Secretary of Defense 
        designates as a coalition support authority of the Department 
        of Defense for purposes of the report required by subsection 
        (a).

SEC. 1234. REPORT ON UNITED STATES ENGAGEMENT WITH THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
              OF IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 31, 2011, the President 
shall submit to Congress a report on United States engagement with the 
Islamic Republic of Iran.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) Diplomatic engagement.--With respect to diplomatic 
        engagement, the following:
                    (A) A description of areas of mutual interest to 
                the Government of the United States and the Government 
                of Iran in which cooperation and discussion could be of 
                mutual interest.
                    (B) A discussion and assessment of the commitment 
                of the Government of Iran to engage in good-faith 
                discussions with the United States to resolve matters 
                of concern through negotiation.
                    (C) An assessment of direct contacts between the 
                Government of the United States and the Government of 
                Iran, including any direct discussions, exchange of 
                letters, or other activities.
            (2) Support for terrorism.--With respect to support for 
        terrorism, an assessment of the types and amount of support 
        provided by Government of Iran to state sponsors of terrorism 
        and groups designated by the United States as foreign terrorist 
        organizations and regional militant groups, including 
        organizations and groups present in Iraq and Afghanistan.
            (3) Nuclear activities.--With respect to nuclear 
        activities, an assessment of the extent to which the Government 
        of Iran has complied with United Nations Security Council 
        Resolutions 1696 (2006), 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), 
        and 1835 (2008), and with any other applicable resolutions 
        adopted by the United Nations Security Council as of the date 
        of the report.
            (4) Missile activities.--With respect to missile 
        activities, an assessment of the extent to which the Government 
        of Iran has continued development of its ballistic missile 
        program, including participation in any imports or exports of 
        any items, materials, goods, and technologies related to that 
        program and has complied with applicable United Nations 
        Security Council Resolutions.
            (5) Support to illegal narcotics network in afghanistan.--
        With respect to narcotics network in Afghanistan, an assessment 
        of the extent to which the Government of Iran has supported and 
        facilitated or attempted to disrupt the narcotics trade in 
        Afghanistan.
            (6) Strategic decision-making.--With respect to the 
        strategic decision making of the Government of Iran, an 
        assessment of how the threat perceptions of the Government of 
        Iran affect its strategic decision-making regarding its nuclear 
        program, and how threats to use force against the Government of 
        Iran affect that decision-making process.
            (7) Sanctions against iran.--With regard to sanctions 
        against Iran, the following:
                    (A) A list of all current United States bilateral 
                and multilateral sanctions against Iran.
                    (B) A description and discussion of United States 
                diplomatic efforts to enforce bilateral and 
                multilateral sanctions against Iran and to strengthen 
                international efforts to enforce such sanctions.
                    (C) An assessment of the effectiveness of existing 
                bilateral and multilateral economic sanctions towards 
                achieving the goals of the United States with regard 
                to--
                            (i) the Government of Iran;
                            (ii) the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps; 
                        and
                            (iii) access of the Iran people to 
                        information and communications on the Internet.
                    (D) A list of all United States and foreign 
                registered entities that the Secretary of State has 
                determined to be engaged in activities in violation of 
                existing United States bilateral or multilateral 
                sanctions against Iran.
                    (E) A list of all entities that provide censorship, 
                surveillance, and other technology to the Government of 
                Iran that enable the Government of Iran to restrict the 
                free flow of information or disrupt, monitor, or 
                otherwise restrict speech in Iran.
                    (F) A summary of United States efforts to enforce 
                sanctions against Iran, including--
                            (i) a list of all investigations initiated 
                        in the 18-month period ending on the date of 
                        the enactment of this Act that have resulted in 
                        a determination that activities subject to 
                        sanctions have occurred;
                            (ii) a description of the actions taken by 
                        the United States Government pursuant to each 
                        such determination; and
                            (iii) a description of the status of 
                        outstanding investigations undertaken under the 
                        Iran Freedom Support Act (Public Law 109-293) 
                        and the procedures in place to bring such 
                        investigations to a conclusion.
            (8) Student visas.--With respect to student visa policy, an 
        assessment of opportunities for the United States and Iran to 
        engage in educational exchanges, including--
                    (A) opportunities for expanding educational 
                exchanges for Iranian students to study in the United 
                States; and
                    (B) the feasibility and advisability of expanding 
                the number and types of visas issued to Iranians for 
                educational exchanges.
    (c) Period of Report.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
section, the period covered by the report required by subsection (a) 
shall be the period beginning on the date of the submittal of the 
report required by section 1241 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-81; 123 Stat. 2537) and ending 
on the date of the submittal of the report required by subsection (a).
    (d) Submittal of Similar Reports and Materials.--If any report or 
other material, whether required by law or not, submitted to Congress 
or any committee of Congress substantially responds to any requirement 
contained in this section, such requirement shall be considered to have 
been satisfied by including in the report required by subsection (a) a 
listing of the title and date of the other such report or material so 
submitted.
    (e) Submittal in Classified Form.--To the extent possible the 
report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in an unclassified 
format.

SEC. 1235. DEFENSE POLICY BOARD REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              STRATEGY TO COUNTER VIOLENT EXTREMISM OUTSIDE THE UNITED 
              STATES.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Defense Policy Board shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the strategy of the Department of Defense 
to counter violent extremism outside the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
at a minimum, the following:
            (1) A review of the current strategy, research activities, 
        resource allocations, and organizational structure of the 
        Department of Defense for countering violent extremism outside 
        the United States.
            (2) An analysis of alternatives and options available to 
        the Department to counter violent extremism outside the United 
        States.
            (3) An analysis of the current information campaign of the 
        Department against violent extremists outside the United 
        States.
            (4) Such recommendations for further action to address the 
        matters covered by the report as the Defense Policy Board 
        considers appropriate.

SEC. 1236. REPORT ON CUBA.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of State, 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth 
the following:
            (1) A description of any connections between the Government 
        of Cuba and drug trafficking organizations in the Western 
        Hemisphere.
            (2) A description of any economic, intelligence, or other 
        support provided by the governments of Bolivia, Ecuador, or 
        Venezuela to the Government of Cuba.
            (3) A description of any agreements or other arrangements 
        between the Government of Cuba and the governments currently on 
        the United States list of state sponsors of terrorism.
            (4) A description of any activities by the Government of 
        Cuba to develop any biological or cyber warfare capabilities, 
        including any collaboration with other countries in the Western 
        Hemisphere for that purpose.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1237. REPORT ON VENEZUELA.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of State, 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth 
the following:
            (1) A description of any activities by the Government of 
        Venezuela to supply any terrorist organization with planning, 
        training, logistics, and lethal material support.
            (2) A description of any activities by the Government of 
        Venezuela to provide direct or indirect financial assistance to 
        any terrorist organization.
            (3) A description of any activities by the Government of 
        Venezuela to provide other types of assistance that could 
        provide material support for the activities of any terrorist 
        organization.
            (4) A description of any activities or assistance, 
        including the proliferation of nuclear materials, the 
        Government of Venezuela is engaged in with or providing to the 
        governments currently on the United States list of state 
        sponsors of terrorism.
            (5) A description of any other activities being conducted 
        by the Government of Venezuela in the Western Hemisphere that 
        undermine the national interest of the United States.
    (b) Terrorist Organizations of Particular Interest.--The report 
required by subsection (a) shall focus primarily on, but not be 
limited, to the following terrorist organizations:
            (1) Hamas.
            (2) Hezbollah.
            (3) The National Liberation Army.
            (4) The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 1238. REPORT ON THE DISARMAMENT OF THE LORD'S RESISTANCE ARMY.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the United 
States should, consistent with policy established by the Lord's 
Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 
(Public Law 111-172)--
            (1) work with regional governments toward a comprehensive 
        and lasting resolution to the conflict in northern Uganda and 
        other areas affected by the Lord's Resistance Army;
            (2) provide political, military, logistics, and 
        intelligence support for multilateral efforts to protect 
        civilians from the Lord's Resistance Army;
            (3) provide, in the continued absence of a negotiated 
        solution, political, economic, military, logistics, and 
        intelligence support to multilateral efforts to apprehend or 
        remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield 
        and to disarm and demobilize the remaining Lord's Resistance 
        Army fighters; and
            (4) provide assistance to respond to the humanitarian needs 
        of populations in northeastern Congo, southern Sudan, and 
        Central African Republic currently affected by the activity of 
        the Lord's Resistance Army.
    (b) Report on Strategy to Support the Disarmament of the Lord's 
Resistance Army.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of State, develop and submit to 
        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
        Representatives a report setting forth a strategy to provide 
        military, logistics, and intelligence support for multilateral 
        efforts to mitigate and eliminate the threat to civilians and 
        regional stability posed by the Lord's Resistance Army.
            (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include an assessment of the level of support required to--
                    (A) help strengthen efforts by the United Nations 
                and regional governments to protect civilians from 
                attacks by the Lord's Resistance Army;
                    (B) apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top 
                commanders from the battlefield in the continued 
                absence of a negotiated solution; and
                    (C) help disarm and demobilize the remaining Lord's 
                Resistance Army fighters.
            (3) Form.--The report under this subsection shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAMS AND 
              FUNDS.

    (a) Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction Programs.--For 
purposes of section 301 and other provisions of this Act, Cooperative 
Threat Reduction programs are the programs specified in section 1501 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (50 U.S.C. 
2362 note).
    (b) Fiscal Year 2011 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds Defined.--
As used in this title, the term ``fiscal year 2011 Cooperative Threat 
Reduction funds'' means the funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for Cooperative Threat Reduction 
programs.
    (c) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for Cooperative Threat Reduction 
programs shall be available for obligation for fiscal years 2011, 2012, 
and 2013.

SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.

    (a) Funding for Specific Purposes.--Of the $522,512,000 authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2011 in 
section 301 and made available by the funding table in section 4301 for 
Cooperative Threat Reduction programs, the following amounts may be 
obligated for the purposes specified:
            (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination in Russia, 
        $66,732,000.
            (2) For strategic nuclear arms elimination in Ukraine, 
        $6,800,000.
            (3) For nuclear weapons storage security in Russia, 
        $9,614,000.
            (4) For nuclear weapons transportation security in Russia, 
        $45,000,000.
            (5) For weapons of mass destruction proliferation 
        prevention, $79,821,000.
            (6) For biological threat reduction in the former Soviet 
        Union, $209,034,000.
            (7) For chemical weapons destruction, $3,000,000.
            (8) For defense and military contacts, $5,000,000.
            (9) For global nuclear lockdown, $74,471,000.
            (10) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
        Administrative Costs, $23,040,000.
    (b) Report on Obligation or Expenditure of Funds for Other 
Purposes.--No fiscal year 2011 Cooperative Threat Reduction funds may 
be obligated or expended for a purpose other than a purpose listed in 
paragraphs (1) through (10) of subsection (a) until 15 days after the 
date that the Secretary of Defense submits to Congress a report on the 
purpose for which the funds will be obligated or expended and the 
amount of funds to be obligated or expended. Nothing in the preceding 
sentence shall be construed as authorizing the obligation or 
expenditure of fiscal year 2011 Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for 
a purpose for which the obligation or expenditure of such funds is 
specifically prohibited under this title or any other provision of law.
    (c) Limited Authority to Vary Individual Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), in any case in 
        which the Secretary of Defense determines that it is necessary 
        to do so in the national interest, the Secretary may obligate 
        amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2011 for a purpose listed 
        in paragraphs (1) through (10) of subsection (a) in excess of 
        the specific amount authorized for that purpose.
            (2) Notice-and-wait required.--An obligation of funds for a 
        purpose stated in paragraphs (1) through (10) of subsection (a) 
        in excess of the specific amount authorized for such purpose 
        may be made using the authority provided in paragraph (1) only 
        after--
                    (A) the Secretary submits to Congress notification 
                of the intent to do so together with a complete 
                discussion of the justification for doing so; and
                    (B) 15 days have elapsed following the date of the 
                notification.

SEC. 1303. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTERS OF 
              EXCELLENCE IN COUNTRIES OUTSIDE OF THE FORMER SOVIET 
              UNION.

    None of the fiscal year 2011 Cooperative Threat Reduction funds may 
be obligated or expended to establish a center of excellence in a 
country that is not a state of the former Soviet Union until the date 
that is 15 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
submits to the congressional defense committees a report that includes 
the following:
            (1) An identification of the country in which the center 
        will be located.
            (2) A description of the purpose for which the center will 
        be established.
            (3) The agreement under which the center will operate.
            (4) A funding plan for the center, including--
                    (A) the amount of funds to be provided by the 
                government of the country in which the center will be 
                located; and
                    (B) the percentage of the total cost of 
                establishing and operating the center the funds 
                described in subparagraph (A) will cover.

SEC. 1304. PLAN FOR NONPROLIFERATION, PROLIFERATION PREVENTION, AND 
              THREAT REDUCTION ACTIVITIES WITH THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2011, the Secretary of 
Defense and Secretary of Energy shall jointly submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan to carry out activities 
relating to nonproliferation, proliferation prevention, and threat 
reduction with the Government of the People's Republic of China during 
fiscal years 2011 through 2016.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the activities to be carried out under 
        the plan.
            (2) A description of milestones and goals for such 
        activities.
            (3) An estimate of the annual cost of such activities.
            (4) An estimate of the amount of the total cost of such 
        activities to be provided by the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4401.

SEC. 1402. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the National Defense Sealift Fund, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4401.

SEC. 1403. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2011 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4401.

SEC. 1404. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2011 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4401.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
            (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
        Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), as amended by section 
        1411 of this Act; and
            (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
        United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.

SEC. 1405. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2011 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4401.

SEC. 1406. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2011 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4401.

             Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Matters

SEC. 1411. CONSOLIDATION AND REORGANIZATION OF STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR 
              DESTRUCTION OF UNITED STATES STOCKPILE OF LETHAL CHEMICAL 
              AGENTS AND MUNITIONS.

    (a) Restatement of Statutory Authority With Consolidation and 
Reorganization.--Section 1412 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1412. DESTRUCTION OF EXISTING STOCKPILE OF LETHAL CHEMICAL 
              AGENTS AND MUNITIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in accordance 
with the provisions of this section, carry out the destruction of the 
United States' stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions that 
exists on November 8, 1985.
    ``(b) Date for Completion.--(1) The destruction of such stockpile 
shall be completed by the stockpile elimination deadline.
    ``(2) If the Secretary of Defense determines at any time that there 
will be a delay in meeting the requirement in paragraph (1) for the 
completion of the destruction of chemical weapons by the stockpile 
elimination deadline, the Secretary shall immediately notify the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives of that projected delay.
    ``(3) For purposes of this section, the term `stockpile elimination 
deadline' means the deadline established by the Chemical Weapons 
Convention, but not later than December 31, 2017.
    ``(c) Initiation of Demilitarization Operations.--The Secretary of 
Defense may not initiate destruction of the chemical munitions 
stockpile stored at a site until the following support measures are in 
place:
            ``(1) Support measures that are required by Department of 
        Defense and Army chemical surety and security program 
        regulations.
            ``(2) Support measures that are required by the general and 
        site chemical munitions demilitarization plans specific to that 
        installation.
            ``(3) Support measures that are required by the permits 
        required by the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et 
        seq.) and the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) for 
        chemical munitions demilitarization operations at that 
        installation, as approved by the appropriate State regulatory 
        agencies.
    ``(d) Environmental Protection and Use of Facilities.--(1) In 
carrying out the requirement of subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide for--
            ``(A) maximum protection for the environment, the general 
        public, and the personnel who are involved in the destruction 
        of the lethal chemical agents and munitions referred to in 
        subsection (a), including but not limited to the use of 
        technologies and procedures that will minimize risk to the 
        public at each site; and
            ``(B) adequate and safe facilities designed solely for the 
        destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions.
    ``(2) Facilities constructed to carry out this section shall, when 
no longer needed for the purposes for which they were constructed, be 
disposed of in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and 
mutual agreements between the Secretary of the Army and the Governor of 
the State in which the facility is located.
    ``(3)(A) Facilities constructed to carry out this section may not 
be used for a purpose other than the destruction of the stockpile of 
lethal chemical agents and munitions that exists on November 8, 1985.
    ``(B) The prohibition in subparagraph (A) shall not apply with 
respect to items designated by the Secretary of Defense as lethal 
chemical agents, munitions, or related materials after November 8, 
1985, if the State in which a destruction facility is located issues 
the appropriate permit or permits for the destruction of such items at 
the facility.
    ``(e) Grants and Cooperative Agreements.--(1)(A) In order to carry 
out subsection (d)(1)(A), the Secretary of Defense may make grants to 
State and local governments and to tribal organizations (either 
directly or through the Federal Emergency Management Agency) to assist 
those governments and tribal organizations in carrying out functions 
relating to emergency preparedness and response in connection with the 
disposal of the lethal chemical agents and munitions referred to in 
subsection (a). Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
purpose of carrying out this section may be used for such grants.
    ``(B) Additionally, the Secretary may provide funds through 
cooperative agreements with State and local governments, and with 
tribal organizations, for the purpose of assisting them in processing, 
approving, and overseeing permits and licenses necessary for the 
construction and operation of facilities to carry out this section. The 
Secretary shall ensure that funds provided through such a cooperative 
agreement are used only for the purpose set forth in the preceding 
sentence.
    ``(C) In this paragraph, the term `tribal organization' has the 
meaning given that term in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(l)).
    ``(2)(A) In coordination with the Secretary of the Army and in 
accordance with agreements between the Secretary of the Army and the 
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the 
Administrator shall carry out a program to provide assistance to State 
and local governments in developing capabilities to respond to 
emergencies involving risks to the public health or safety within their 
jurisdictions that are identified by the Secretary as being risks 
resulting from--
            ``(i) the storage of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        referred to in subsection (a) at military installations in the 
        continental United States; or
            ``(ii) the destruction of such agents and munitions at 
        facilities referred to in subsection (d)(1)(B).
    ``(B) Assistance may be provided under this paragraph for 
capabilities to respond to emergencies involving an installation or 
facility as described in subparagraph (A) until the earlier of the 
following:
            ``(i) The date of the completion of all grants and 
        cooperative agreements with respect to the installation or 
        facility for purposes of this paragraph between the Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency and the State and local governments 
        concerned.
            ``(ii) The date that is 180 days after the date of the 
        completion of the destruction of lethal chemical agents and 
        munitions at the installation or facility.
    ``(C) Not later than December 15 of each year, the Administrator 
shall transmit a report to Congress on the activities carried out under 
this paragraph during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in 
which the report is submitted.
    ``(f) Requirement for Strategic Plan.--(1) The Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the Secretary of 
the Army shall jointly prepare, and from time to time shall update as 
appropriate, a strategic plan for future activities for destruction of 
the United States' stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions.
    ``(2) The plan shall include, at a minimum, the following 
considerations:
            ``(A) Realistic budgeting for stockpile destruction and 
        related support programs.
            ``(B) Contingency planning for foreseeable or anticipated 
        problems.
            ``(C) A management approach and associated actions that 
        address compliance with the obligations of the United States 
        under the Chemical Weapons Convention and that take full 
        advantage of opportunities to accelerate destruction of the 
        stockpile.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall each year submit to the 
Committee on the Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
Armed Services of the House of Representatives the strategic plan as 
most recently prepared and updated under paragraph (1). Such submission 
shall be made each year at the time of the submission to the Congress 
that year of the President's budget for the next fiscal year.
    ``(g) Management Organization.--(1) In carrying out this section, 
the Secretary of Defense shall provide for a management organization 
within the Department of the Army. The Secretary of the Army shall be 
responsible for management of the destruction of agents and munitions 
at all sites except Blue Grass Army Depot, Kentucky, and Pueblo 
Chemical Depot, Colorado
    ``(2) The program manager for the Assembled Chemical Weapons 
Alternative Program shall be responsible for management of the 
construction, operation, and closure, and any contracting relating 
thereto, of chemical demilitarization activities at Bluegrass Army 
Depot, Kentucky, and Pueblo Army Depot, Colorado, including management 
of the pilot-scale facility phase of the alternative technology 
selected for the destruction of lethal chemical munitions. In 
performing such management, the program manager shall act independently 
of the Army program manager for Chemical Demilitarization and shall 
report to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
and Logistics
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall designate a general officer or 
civilian equivalent as the director of the management organization 
established under paragraph (1). Such officer shall have--
            ``(A) experience in the acquisition, storage, and 
        destruction of chemical agents and munitions; and
            ``(B) outstanding qualifications regarding safety in 
        handling chemical agents and munitions.
    ``(h) Identification of Funds.--(1) Funds for carrying out this 
section, including funds for military construction projects necessary 
to carry out this section, shall be set forth in the budget of the 
Department of Defense for any fiscal year as a separate account. Such 
funds shall not be included in the budget accounts for any military 
department.
    ``(2) Amounts appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for the 
purpose of carrying out subsection (e) shall be promptly made available 
to the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
    ``(i) Annual Reports.--(1) Except as provided by paragraph (3), the 
Secretary of Defense shall transmit, by December 15 each year, a report 
to Congress on the activities carried out under this section during the 
fiscal year ending on September 30 of the calendar year in which the 
report is to be made.
    ``(2) Each annual report shall include the following:
            ``(A) A site-by-site description of the construction, 
        equipment, operation, and dismantling of facilities (during the 
        fiscal year for which the report is made) used to carry out the 
        destruction of agents and munitions under this section, 
        including any accidents or other unplanned occurrences 
        associated with such construction and operation.
            ``(B) A site-by-site description of actions taken to assist 
        State and local governments (either directly or through the 
        Federal Emergency Management Agency) in carrying out functions 
        relating to emergency preparedness and response in accordance 
        with subsection (e).
            ``(C) An accounting of all funds expended (during such 
        fiscal year) for activities carried out under this section, 
        with a separate accounting for amounts expended for--
                    ``(i) the construction of and equipment for 
                facilities used for the destruction of agents and 
                munitions;
                    ``(ii) the operation of such facilities;
                    ``(iii) the dismantling or other closure of such 
                facilities;
                    ``(iv) research and development;
                    ``(v) program management;
                    ``(vi) travel and associated travel costs for 
                Citizens' Advisory Commissioners under subsection 
                (m)(7); and
                    ``(vii) grants to State and local governments to 
                assist those governments in carrying out functions 
                relating to emergency preparedness and response in 
                accordance with subsection (e).
            ``(D) An assessment of the safety status and the integrity 
        of the stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        subject to this section, including--
                    ``(i) an estimate on how much longer that stockpile 
                can continue to be stored safely;
                    ``(ii) a site-by-site assessment of the safety of 
                those agents and munitions; and
                    ``(iii) a description of the steps taken (to the 
                date of the report) to monitor the safety status of the 
                stockpile and to mitigate any further deterioration of 
                that status.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall transmit the final report under paragraph 
(1) not later than 120 days following the completion of activities 
under this section.
    ``(j) Semiannual Reports.--(1) Not later than March 1 and September 
1 each year until the year in which the United States completes the 
destruction of its entire stockpile of chemical weapons under the terms 
of the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the members and committees of Congress referred to in 
paragraph (3) a report on the implementation by the United States of 
its chemical weapons destruction obligations under the Chemical Weapons 
Convention.
    ``(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            ``(A) The anticipated schedule at the time of such report 
        for the completion of destruction of chemical agents, 
        munitions, and materiel at each chemical weapons 
        demilitarization facility in the United States.
            ``(B) A description of the options and alternatives for 
        accelerating the completion of chemical weapons destruction at 
        each such facility, particularly in time to meet the stockpile 
        elimination deadline.
            ``(C) A description of the funding required to achieve each 
        of the options for destruction described under subparagraph 
        (B), and a detailed life-cycle cost estimate for each of the 
        affected facilities included in each such funding profile.
            ``(D) A description of all actions being taken by the 
        United States to accelerate the destruction of its entire 
        stockpile of chemical weapons, agents, and materiel in order to 
        meet the current stockpile elimination deadline under the 
        Chemical Weapons Convention of April 29, 2012, or as soon 
        thereafter as possible.
    ``(3) The members and committees of Congress referred to in this 
paragraph are--
            ``(A) the majority leader and the minority leader of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate; and
            ``(B) the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the 
        majority leader and the minority leader of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Armed Services and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    ``(k) Authorized Use of Toxic Chemicals.--Consistent with United 
States obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Secretary 
of Defense may develop, produce, otherwise acquire, retain, transfer, 
and use toxic chemicals and their precursors for purposes not 
prohibited by the Chemical Weapons Convention if the types and 
quantities of such chemicals and precurors are consistent with such 
purposes, including for protective purposes such as protection against 
toxic chemicals and protection against chemical weapons.
    ``(l) Surveillance and Assessment Program.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall conduct an ongoing comprehensive program of--
            ``(1) surveillance of the existing United States stockpile 
        of chemical weapons; and
            ``(2) assessment of the condition of the stockpile.
    ``(m) Chemical Demilitarization Citizens' Advisory Commissions.--
(1)(A) The Secretary of the Army shall establish a citizens' commission 
for each State in which there is a chemical demilitarization facility 
under Army management.
    ``(B) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and 
Biological Defense Programs shall establish a chemical demilitarization 
citizens' commission in Colorado and in Kentucky.
    ``(C) Each commission under this subsection shall be known as the 
`Chemical Demilitarization Citizens' Advisory Commission' for the State 
concerned.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of the Army, or the Department of Defense 
with respect to Colorado and Kentucky, shall provide for a 
representative to meet with each commission established under this 
subsection to receive citizen and State concerns regarding the ongoing 
program for the disposal of the lethal chemical agents and munitions in 
the stockpile referred to in subsection (a) at each of the sites with 
respect to which a commission is established pursuant to paragraph (1).
    ``(B) The Secretary of the Army shall provide for a representative 
from the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, 
Logistics, and Technology) to meet with each commission under Army 
management.
    ``(C) The Department of Defense shall provide for a representative 
from the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, 
Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs to meet with the commissions 
in Colorado and Kentucky.
    ``(3)(A) Each commission under this subsection shall be composed of 
nine members appointed by the Governor of the State. Seven of such 
members shall be citizens from the local affected areas in the State. 
The other two shall be representatives of State government who have 
direct responsibilities related to the chemical demilitarization 
program.
    ``(B) For purposes of this paragraph, affected areas are those 
areas located within a 50-mile radius of a chemical weapons storage 
site.
    ``(4) For a period of five years after the termination of any 
commission under this subsection, no corporation, partnership, or other 
organization in which a member of that commission, a spouse of a member 
of that commission, or a natural or adopted child of a member of that 
commission has an ownership interest may be awarded--
            ``(A) a contract related to the disposal of lethal chemical 
        agents or munitions in the stockpile referred to in subsection 
        (a); or
            ``(B) a subcontract under such a contract.
    ``(5) The members of each commission under this subsection shall 
designate the chair of such commission from among the members of such 
commission.
    ``(6) Each commission under this subsection shall meet with a 
representative from the Army, or the Office of the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs with 
respect to the commissions in Colorado and Kentucky, upon joint 
agreement between the chair of such commission and that representative. 
The two parties shall meet not less often than twice a year and may 
meet more often at their discretion.
    ``(7) Members of each commission under this subsection shall 
receive no pay for their involvement in the activities of their 
commissions. Funds appropriated for the Chemical Stockpile 
Demilitarization Program may be used for travel and associated travel 
costs for commissioners of commissions under this subsection when such 
travel is conducted at the invitation of the Assistant Secretary of the 
Army (Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology) or the invitation of the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological 
Defense Programs for the commissions in Colorado and Kentucky.
    ``(8) Each commission under this subsection shall be terminated 
after the closure activities required pursuant to regulations 
prescribed by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) have 
been completed for the chemical agent destruction facility in such 
commission's State, or upon the request of the Governor of such 
commission's State, whichever occurs first.
    ``(n) Incentive Clauses in Chemical Demilitarization Contracts.--
(1)(A) The Secretary of Defense may, for the purpose specified in 
paragraph (B), authorize the inclusion of an incentives clause in any 
contract for the destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal 
chemical agents and munitions carried out pursuant to subsection (a).
    ``(B) The purpose of a clause referred to in subparagraph (A) is to 
provide the contractor for a chemical demilitarization facility an 
incentive to accelerate the safe elimination of the United States 
chemical weapons stockpile and to reduce the total cost of the Chemical 
Demilitarization Program by providing incentive payments for the early 
completion of destruction operations and the closure of such facility.
    ``(2)(A) An incentives clause under this subsection shall permit 
the contractor for the chemical demilitarization facility concerned the 
opportunity to earn incentive payments for the completion of 
destruction operations and facility closure activities within target 
incentive ranges specified in such clause.
    ``(B) The maximum incentive payment under an incentives clause with 
respect to a chemical demilitarization facility may not exceed the 
following amounts:
            ``(i) In the case of an incentive payment for the 
        completion of destruction operations within the target 
        incentive range specified in such clause, $110,000,000.
            ``(ii) In the case of an incentive payment for the 
        completion of facility closure activities within the target 
        incentive range specified in such clause, $55,000,000.
    ``(C) An incentives clause in a contract under this section shall 
specify the target incentive ranges of costs for completion of 
destruction operations and facility closure activities, respectively, 
as jointly agreed upon by the contracting officer and the contractor 
concerned. An incentives clause shall require a proportionate reduction 
in the maximum incentive payment amounts in the event that the 
contractor exceeds an agreed-upon target cost if such excess costs are 
the responsibility of the contractor.
    ``(D) The amount of the incentive payment earned by a contractor 
for a chemical demilitarization facility under an incentives clause 
under this subsection shall be based upon a determination by the 
Secretary on how early in the target incentive range specified in such 
clause destruction operations or facility closure activities, as the 
case may be, are completed.
    ``(E) The provisions of any incentives clause under this subsection 
shall be consistent with the obligation of the Secretary of Defense 
under subsection (d)(1)(A), to provide for maximum protection for the 
environment, the general public, and the personnel who are involved in 
the destruction of the lethal chemical agents and munitions.
    ``(F) In negotiating the inclusion of an incentives clause in a 
contract under this subsection, the Secretary may include in such 
clause such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers 
appropriate.
    ``(3)(A) No payment may be made under an incentives clause under 
this subsection unless the Secretary determines that the contractor 
concerned has satisfactorily performed its duties under such incentives 
clause.
    ``(B) An incentives clause under this subsection shall specify that 
the obligation of the Government to make payment under such incentives 
clause is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose. Amounts appropriated for Chemical Agents and Munitions 
Destruction, Defense, shall be available for payments under incentives 
clauses under this subsection.
    ``(o) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `chemical agent and munition' means an agent 
        or munition that, through its chemical properties, produces 
        lethal or other damaging effects on human beings, except that 
        such term does not include riot control agents, chemical 
        herbicides, smoke and other obscuration materials.
            ``(2) The term `Chemical Weapons Convention' means the 
        Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, 
        Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their 
        Destruction, with annexes, done at Paris, January 13, 1993, and 
        entered into force April 29, 1997 (T. Doc. 103-21).
            ``(3) The term `lethal chemical agent and munition' means a 
        chemical agent or munition that is designed to cause death, 
        through its chemical properties, to human beings in field 
        concentrations.
            ``(4) The term `destruction' means, with respect to 
        chemical munitions or agents--
                    ``(A) the demolishment of such munitions or agents 
                by incineration or by any other means; or
                    ``(B) the dismantling or other disposal of such 
                munitions or agents so as to make them useless for 
                military purposes and harmless to human beings under 
                normal circumstances.''.
    (b) Repeal of Laws Restated in Section 1412 and Obsolete Provisions 
of Law.--The following provisions of law are repealed:
            (1) Section 125 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-180; 101 Stat. 
        1043; 50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (2) Sections 172, 174, 175, and 180 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 106 
        Stat. 2341; 50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (3) Section 152 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (4) Section 8065 of the Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations 
        Act, 1997 (50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (5) Section 142 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (6) Section 141 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 537; 50 
        U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (7) Section 8122 of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248; 116 Stat. 1566; 
        50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (8) Section 923 of the John Warner National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
        Stat. 2360; 50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (9) Section 8119 of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-116; 121 Stat. 1340; 
        50 U.S.C. 1521 note).
            (10) Section 922(c) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 283; 50 
        U.S.C. 1521 note).

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 1421. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH 
              CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.

    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1403 and available for Defense Health Program 
for operation and maintenance as specified in the funding table in 
section 4401 may be transferred by the Secretary of Defense to the 
Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
Facility Demonstration Fund established by subsection (a)(1) of section 
1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) 
of such section 1704, any funds so transferred shall be treated as 
amounts authorized and appropriated for the Department of Defense 
specifically for such transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For purposes of subsection (b) of 
such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement pursuant to section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 455).

               TITLE XV--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

SEC. 1500. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2011 to provide additional 
funding for overseas contingency operations of the Department of 
Defense in that fiscal year.

         Subtitle A--Authorization of Additional Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.

SEC. 1502. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.

SEC. 1503. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4302.

SEC. 1504. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the Department of Defense for military personnel in the amount of 
$15,275,502,000.

SEC. 1505. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

SEC. 1506. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2011 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4402.

SEC. 1507. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2011 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

SEC. 1508. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2011 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.

    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.

SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal 
        year 2011 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year 
        (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so 
        transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same 
        purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--The total amount of authorizations that 
        the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this 
        subsection may not exceed $4,000,000,000.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 1531. AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS IN OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS 
              TRANSFER FUND SOLELY FOR DETAINEE OPERATIONS AT UNITED 
              STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 1503 and 
available for the Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund as 
specified in the funding table in section 4302, not more than 
$105,000,000 shall be available solely for detainee operations at 
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

SEC. 1532. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS IN AFGHANISTAN SECURITY 
              FORCES FUND.

    (a) Limitations.--
            (1) In general.--Funds authorized to be appropriated by 
        section 1507 and available for the Afghanistan Security Forces 
        Fund as specified in the funding table in section 4302 shall be 
        subject to the conditions contained in subsections (b), (c), 
        (e), (f), and (g) of section 1513 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
        Stat. 428), as amended by subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this 
        section.
            (2) Prohibition on transfer of funds.--Funds described in 
        paragraph (1) shall not be subject to transfer pursuant to the 
        authority in subsection (d) of section 1513 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.
    (b) Availability of Funds for Non-intelligence Activities.--
Subsection (b)(1) of section 1513 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 is amended by striking the period at the end 
and inserting the following: ``, including those forces and personnel 
of Afghan ministries assigned to or in support of the Major Crimes Task 
Force.''.
    (c) Modification of Prior Notice to Congress on Use of Funds.--
Subsection (e) of such section is amended by striking ``five days'' and 
inserting ``15 days''.
    (d) Treatment of Certain Reports as Satisfying Requirement for 
Quarterly Reports on Use of Funds.--Subsection (g) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``(g) Quarterly Reports.--Not later'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(g) Quarterly Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Treatment of certain other reports as satisfying 
        report requirements.--The Secretary may treat a report 
        submitted under section 9010 of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-118; 123 Stat. 3466), 
        or a successor provision of law, with respect to a fiscal-year 
        quarter as satisfying the requirements for a report under 
        paragraph (1) with respect to such fiscal-year quarter.''.

SEC. 1533. IRAQ SECURITY FORCES FUND.

    (a) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Funds authorized to be appropriated by 
        section 1507 and available for the Iraq Security Forces Fund 
        pursuant to the funding table in section 4302 shall be 
        available to the Secretary of Defense for the purpose of 
        allowing the Commander, United States Forces Iraq, to provide 
        assistance to build the minimum essential capabilities of the 
        security forces of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of 
        Interior of Iraq.
            (2) Types of assistance authorized.--Assistance provided 
        under this section may include the provision of equipment, 
        supplies, services, training, and repair and renovation of 
        facilities and infrastructure.
            (3) Secretary of state concurrence.--Assistance may be 
        provided under this section only with the concurrence of the 
        Secretary of State.
    (b) Limitation on Obligation of Funds Pending Certain Commitment by 
Government of Iraq.--
            (1) Limitation.--Of the amount available to the Iraq 
        Security Forces Fund as described in subsection (a), not more 
        than $500,000,000 may be obligated until the Secretary of 
        Defense determines and certifies to Congress that the 
        Government of Iraq has demonstrated a commitment to each of the 
        following:
                    (A) To adequately build the logistics and 
                maintenance capacity of the Iraqi security forces.
                    (B) To develop the institutional capacity to manage 
                such forces independently.
                    (C) To develop a culture of sustainment for 
                equipment provided or acquired with United States 
                assistance.
            (2) Additional elements.--The certification of the 
        Secretary under paragraph (1) shall include a description of 
        any actions taken by the Government of Iraq that, in the 
        determination of the Secretary, support the determination of 
        the Secretary under paragraph (1).
    (c) Limitation on Obligation of Funds Pending Notice on Purpose of 
Obligation.--Funds available to the Iraq Security Forces Fund as 
described in subsection (a) may not be obligated from the Iraq Security 
Forces Fund until fifteen days after the date on which the Secretary of 
Defense notifies the congressional defense committees in writing of the 
details of the proposed obligation.
    (d) Authority in Addition to Other Authorities.--The authority to 
provide assistance under this section is in addition to any other 
authority to provide assistance to foreign nations.
    (e) Contributions.--
            (1) Authority to accept contributions.--Subject to 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense may accept 
        contributions of amounts to the Iraq Security Forces Fund for 
        the purposes provided in subsection (a) from any person, 
        foreign government, or international organization. Any amounts 
        so accepted shall be credited to the Iraq Security Forces Fund.
            (2) Limitation.--The Secretary may not accept a 
        contribution under this subsection if the acceptance of the 
        contribution would compromise or appear to compromise the 
        integrity of any program of the Department of Defense.
            (3) Use.--Amounts accepted under this subsection shall be 
        available for assistance authorized by subsection (a).
            (4) Notice to congress.--The Secretary shall notify the 
        congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
        of the House of Representatives, in writing, upon the 
        acceptance of any contribution under this subsection. Each 
        notice shall specify the source and amount of any amount so 
        accepted and the use of any amount so accepted.
    (f) Quarterly Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the end of 
        each fiscal-year quarter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
        to the congressional defense committees a report summarizing 
        the details of any obligation of funds from the Iraq Security 
        Forces Fund during such fiscal-year quarter.
            (2) Treatment of certain other reports as satisfying report 
        requirements.--The Secretary may treat a report submitted under 
        section 9010 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 
        2010 (Public Law 111-118; 123 Stat. 3466), or a successor 
        provision of law, with respect to a fiscal-year quarter as 
        satisfying the requirements for a report under paragraph (1) 
        with respect to such fiscal-year quarter.
    (g) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Effective as of October 1, 
2010, section 1512 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 426) is repealed.

SEC. 1534. PROJECTS OF TASK FORCE FOR BUSINESS AND STABILITY OPERATIONS 
              IN AFGHANISTAN AND REPORT ON ECONOMIC STRATEGY FOR 
              AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) Projects of Task Force for Business and Stability Operations in 
Afghanistan.--
            (1) In general.--The Task Force for Business and Stability 
        Operations in Afghanistan may, subject to the direction and 
        control of the Secretary of Defense, carry out projects in 
        fiscal year 2011 to assist the commander of the United States 
        Central Command in developing a link between United States 
        military operations in Afghanistan under Operation Enduring 
        Freedom and the economic elements of United States national 
        power in order to reduce violence, enhance stability, and 
        restore economic normalcy in Afghanistan through strategic 
        business and economic activities.
            (2) Scope of projects.--The projects carried out under 
        paragraph (1) may include projects that facilitate private 
        investment, industrial development, banking and financial 
        system development, agricultural diversification and 
        revitalization, and energy development in and with respect to 
        Afghanistan.
            (3) Funding.--The Secretary may use funds available for 
        overseas contingency operations for operation and maintenance 
        for the Army for additional activities to carry out projects 
        under paragraph (1). The amount of funds used under authority 
        in the preceding sentence may not exceed $150,000,000.
            (4) Report.--Not later than October 31, 2011, the Secretary 
        of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a report on the activities of the Task Force for Business and 
        Stability Operations in Afghanistan in support of Operation 
        Enduring Freedom during fiscal year 2011, including a 
        description of the projects carried out under paragraph (1) 
        during that fiscal year.
    (b) Report on Economic Strategy for Afghanistan.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a report on a United 
        States economic strategy for Afghanistan that--
                    (A) supports the United States counterinsurgency 
                campaign in Afghanistan;
                    (B) promotes economic stabilization in Afghanistan, 
                consistent with a longer-term development plan for 
                Afghanistan; and
                    (C) enhances the establishment of sustainable 
                institutions in Afghanistan.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An identification of the sectors within the 
                Afghanistan economy that offer the greatest economic 
                opportunities to support the purposes of the United 
                States economic strategy for Afghanistan set forth 
                under paragraph (1).
                    (B) An assessment of the capabilities of the 
                Afghanistan Government to increase revenue generation 
                to meet its own operational and developmental costs in 
                the short-term, medium-term, and long-term.
                    (C) An assessment of the infrastructure (water, 
                power, rail, road) required to underpin economic 
                development in Afghanistan.
                    (D) A description of the potential role in the 
                economic strategy for Afghanistan of each of the 
                following:
                            (i) Private sector investment, including 
                        investment by and through the Overseas Private 
                        Investment Corporation.
                            (ii) Efforts to promote public-private 
                        partnerships.
                            (iii) Community development grants, 
                        including through the Afghanistan National 
                        Solidarity Program, and public works projects.
                            (iv) The International Bank for 
                        Reconstruction and Development and the Asian 
                        Development Bank.
                            (v) Efforts to promote trade, including 
                        efforts by and through the Export-Import Bank 
                        of the United States.
                            (vi) Department of Defense policies to 
                        promote economic stabilization and development, 
                        including an expanded Afghanistan First 
                        procurement policy and efforts by the 
                        Department to enhance transportation, 
                        electrification, and communications networks 
                        both within Afghanistan and between Afghanistan 
                        and neighboring countries.
                    (E) An evaluation of the regional dimension of an 
                economic strategy for Afghanistan, including a 
                description of economic areas suitable for regional 
                collaboration and a prioritization among such areas for 
                attention under the strategy.
                    (F) A timeline and milestones for activities that 
                can promote economic stabilization, development, and 
                sustainability in Afghanistan in the short-term, 
                medium-term, and long-term.
                    (G) Recommendations on the assignment of 
                responsibilities within the Department of Defense, and 
                among the department and agencies of the Government of 
                the United States, for carrying out the economic 
                strategy for Afghanistan.
                    (H) Metrics for assessing progress under the 
                economic strategy for Afghanistan.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign 
                Relations, and Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committees on Armed Services, Foreign 
                Affairs, and Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 1535. REPORT ON MANAGEMENT CONTROLS AND OVERSIGHT MECHANISMS FOR 
              THE JOINT IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE DEFEAT 
              ORGANIZATION.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth a review of the 
current management controls and oversight mechanisms for the Joint 
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
at a minimum, the following:
            (1) A description of the current management structure and 
        reporting relationships of the Joint Improvised Explosive 
        Device Defeat Organization.
            (2) Such recommendations for modifications to the current 
        management structure and reporting relationships of the Joint 
        Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate to ensure appropriate 
        management control and oversight of the operations and 
        activities of the organization.
            (3) An assessment of the degree to which acquisition 
        professionals from the military departments are included in the 
        organization of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
        Organization, and an assessment whether further actions are 
        needed to strengthen the role and participation of acquisition 
        professionals from the military departments in funding and 
        development decisions of the organization.
            (4) An assessment of the departmental controls of the Joint 
        Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization, including 
        systems for identifying and addressing material weaknesses in 
        such departmental controls.
            (5) An assessment of the data collection and metrics used 
        to determine the effectiveness of the initiatives and 
        investments of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
        Organization and to make any needed adjustments in such 
        initiatives and investments.
            (6) An assessment whether the Joint Improvised Explosive 
        Device Defeat Organization and the Armed Forces are performing 
        activities that are duplicative and, if so, a determination who 
        should perform such activities.

SEC. 1536. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUPPORT FOR INTEGRATED CIVILIAN-
              MILITARY TRAINING FOR CIVILIAN PERSONNEL DEPLOYING TO 
              AFGHANISTAN.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should, 
in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development, continue to 
support integrated civilian-military training for civilians deploying 
to serve in Afghanistan, including through the allocation of military 
and civilian personnel, trainers, and other resources for that purpose.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011''.

SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
              SPECIFIED BY LAW.

    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, 
family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and 
authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later 
of--
            (1) October 1, 2013; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2014.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2013; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for fiscal year 2014 for military construction projects, land 
        acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Security Investment Program.

SEC. 2003. FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--The amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
sections 2104, 2204, 2304, 2404, 2411, 2502, and 2606 shall be 
available in the amounts specified in the funding table in section 
4501.
    (b) Base Closure and Realignment Activities.--The amounts 
authorized to be appropriated by section 2703 shall be available in the 
amounts specified in the funding table in section 4502.
    (c) Overseas Contingency Operations.--The amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by sections 2901 and 2902 shall be available in the 
amounts specified in the funding table in section 4503.

                            TITLE XXI--ARMY

SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(1), the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Fort Rucker......................................      $69,650,000
Alaska......................................  Fort Greely......................................      $26,000,000
                                              Fort Richardson..................................     $113,238,000
                                              Fort Wainwright..................................     $173,000,000
California..................................  Presidio of Monterey.............................     $140,000,000
Colorado....................................  Fort Carson......................................     $106,350,000
Florida.....................................  Eglin Air Force Base.............................       $6,900,000
                                              Miami-Dade County................................      $41,000,000
Georgia.....................................  Fort Benning.....................................     $145,400,000
                                              Fort Gordon......................................      $12,250,000
                                              Fort Stewart.....................................     $125,250,000
Hawaii......................................  Fort Shafter.....................................      $81,000,000
                                              Schofield Barracks...............................     $212,000,000
                                              Tripler Army Medical Center......................      $28,000,000
Kansas......................................  Fort Leavenworth.................................       $7,100,000
                                              Fort Riley.......................................      $57,100,000
Kentucky....................................  Fort Campbell....................................     $150,200,000
                                              Fort Knox........................................      $36,800,000
Louisiana...................................  Fort Polk........................................      $72,450,000
Maryland....................................  Aberdeen Proving Ground..........................      $14,600,000
                                              Fort Meade.......................................      $32,600,000
Missouri....................................  Fort Leonard Wood................................     $111,700,000
New Mexico..................................  White Sands......................................      $29,000,000
New York....................................  Fort Drum........................................     $236,400,000
                                              U.S. Military Academy............................     $132,324,000
North Carolina..............................  Fort Bragg.......................................     $310,900,000
Oklahoma....................................  Fort Sill........................................      $13,800,000
                                              McAlester Army Ammunition Plant..................       $3,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Fort Jackson.....................................      $91,000,000
Texas.......................................  Fort Bliss.......................................     $149,950,000
                                              Fort Hood........................................     $145,050,000
                                              Fort Sam Houston.................................      $22,200,000
Virginia....................................  Fort A.P. Hill...................................      $93,600,000
                                              Fort Eustis......................................      $18,000,000
                                              Fort Lee.........................................      $18,400,000
Washington..................................  Fort Lewis.......................................     $171,800,000
                                              Yakima Firing Range..............................       $3,750,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(2), the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Ansbach........................................      $31,800,000
                                                Grafenwoehr....................................      $75,500,000
                                                Rhine Ordnance Barracks........................      $35,000,000
                                                Sembach Air Base...............................       $9,100,000
                                                Wiesbaden Air Base.............................     $126,500,000
Korea.........................................  Camp Walker....................................      $19,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(5)(A), 
the Secretary of the Army may construct or acquire family housing units 
(including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the 
installations or locations, in the number of units, and in the amounts 
set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Country                    Installation or Location              Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.................................  Fort Wainwright............  110.......................     $21,000,000
Germany................................  Baumholder.................  64........................     $34,329,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(5)(A), the 
Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $2,040,000.

SEC. 2103. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2104(5)(A), the Secretary of the Army may improve existing 
military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $35,000,000.

SEC. 2104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for military construction, land 
acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of 
the Army in the total amount of $4,407,307,000, as follows:
            (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
        States authorized by section 2101(a), $3,059,112,000.
            (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
        States authorized by section 2101(b), $206,400,000.
            (3) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
        authorized by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $23,000,000.
            (4) For architectural and engineering services and 
        construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
        States Code, $259,636,000.
            (5) For military family housing functions:
                    (A) For construction and acquisition, planning and 
                design, and improvement of military family housing and 
                facilities, $92,369,000.
                    (B) For support of military family housing 
                (including the functions described in section 2833 of 
                title 10, United States Code), $518,140,000.
            (6) For the construction of increment 4 of a brigade 
        complex operations support facility at Vicenza, Italy, 
        authorized by section 2101(b) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of Public 
        Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 505), $25,000,000.
            (7) For the construction of increment 4 of a brigade 
        complex barracks and community support facility at Vicenza, 
        Italy, authorized by section 2101(b) of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B 
        of Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 505), $26,000,000.
            (8) For the construction of increment 2 of the Command and 
        Battle Center at Wiesbaden, Germany, authorized by section 
        2101(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
        4662), $59,500,000.
            (9) For the construction of increment 1 of the Aviation 
        Task Force Complex at Fort Wainwright, Alaska, authorized by 
        section 2101(a) of this Act, $92,650,000.
            (10) For the construction of increment 1 of the Sensitive 
        Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) at Weisbaden, 
        Germany, authorized by section 2101(b) of this Act, 
        $45,500,000.

SEC. 2105. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2008 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of 
Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 503), authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (122 
Stat. 504), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2011, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2012, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2008 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country              Installation or Location               Project                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia...............................  Fort Stewart............  Unit Operations Facilities.......  $16,000,000
Hawaii................................  Schofield Barracks......  Tactical Vehicle Wash Facility...  $10,200,000
                                                                  Barracks Complex-Wheeler 205.....  $51,000,000
Louisiana.............................  Fort Polk                 Brigade Headquarters.............   $9,800,000
                                                                  Child Care Facility..............   $6,100,000
Missouri..............................  Fort Leonard Wood         Automated Multipurpose Machine      $4,150,000
                                                                   Gun Range.......................
Oklahoma..............................  Fort Sill                 Multipurpose Machine Gun Range...   $3,300,000
Washington............................  Fort Lewis                Alternative Fuel Facility........   $3,300,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2106. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2009 PROJECT.

    The table in section 2101(b) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of Public Law 110-
417; 122 Stat. 4662) is amended by striking ``Katterbach'' and 
inserting ``Grafenwoehr''.

SEC. 2107. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2010 PROJECT.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2628) for Fort Riley, 
Kansas, for construction of a Brigade Complex at the installation, the 
Secretary of the Army may construct up to a 40,100 square-feet brigade 
headquarters consistent with the Army's construction guidelines for 
brigade headquarters.

                            TITLE XXII--NAVY

SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(1), the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                            Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Mobile.........................................      $29,082,000
Arizona.......................................  Marine Corps Air Station, Yuma.................     $285,060,000
California....................................  Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton..............     $362,124,000
                                                Naval Base, Coronado...........................      $67,160,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station, Miramar..............     $190,610,000
                                                Naval Station, San Diego.......................     $108,414,000
                                                Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego..........       $9,950,000
                                                Marine Corps Base, Twentynine Palms............      $53,158,000
Connecticut...................................  Naval Submarine Base, New London...............      $12,930,000
Florida.......................................   Blount Island Command.........................      $74,620,000
                                                Naval Support Activity, Panama City............       $5,960,000
                                                Tampa..........................................       $2,300,000
Georgia.......................................  Naval Submarine Base, Kings Bay................      $60,664,000
Hawaii........................................  Marine Corps Base, Camp Smith..................      $29,960,000
                                                Marine Corps Base, Kaneohe Bay.................     $109,660,000
                                                Naval Station, Pearl Harbor....................     $129,612,000
                                                Pacific Missile Range Facility.................       $9,100,000
Maine.........................................  Portsmouth Naval Shipyard......................      $17,240,000
Maryland......................................  Naval Support Facility, Indian Head............      $47,048,000
                                                Naval Air Station, Patuxent River..............      $42,211,000
Mississippi...................................  Naval Construction Battalion Center, Gulfport..      $11,870,000
North Carolina................................  Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejeune................     $789,393,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry Point.........      $65,510,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Naval Support Activity, Mechanicsburg..........      $13,560,000
Rhode Island..................................  Naval Station, Newport.........................      $44,127,000
South Carolina................................  Marine Corps Air Station, Beaufort.............     $129,410,000
Virginia......................................  Naval Station, Norfolk.........................      $12,435,000
                                                Marine Corps Base, Quantico....................     $143,632,000
                                                Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren.........       $9,730,000
Washington....................................  Bangor.........................................      $56,893,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(2), the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installation or location outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain.......................................  Southwest Asia..................................    $213,153,000
Djibouti......................................  Camp Lemonier...................................     $51,631,000
Guam..........................................  Naval Activities, Guam..........................     $66,730,000
Japan.........................................  Atsugi Naval Air Facility.......................      $6,908,000
Spain.........................................  Naval Station, Rota.............................     $23,190,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(5)(A), 
the Secretary of the Navy may construct or acquire family housing units 
(including land acquisition and supporting facilities) at the 
installations or locations, in the number of units, and in the amounts 
set forth in the following table:

                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Location                      Installation or Location              Units             Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba...................................  Guantanamo Bay...................  71                       $37,169,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(5)(A), the 
Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $3,255,000.

SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(5)(A), the Secretary of the Navy may improve existing 
military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $146,020,000.

SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for military construction, land 
acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of 
the Navy in the total amount of $4,263,210,000, as follows:
            (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
        States authorized by section 2201(a), $2,998,765,000.
            (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
        States authorized by section 2201(b), $361,612,000.
            (3) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
        authorized by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $20,877,000.
            (4) For architectural and engineering services and 
        construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
        States Code, $140,050,000.
            (5) For military family housing functions:
                    (A) For construction and acquisition, planning and 
                design, and improvement of military family housing and 
                facilities, $186,444,000.
                    (B) For support of military family housing 
                (including functions described in section 2833 of title 
                10, United States Code), $366,346,000.
            (6) For the construction of increment 7 of a limited area 
        production and storage complex at Bangor, Washington, 
        authorized by section 2201(a) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (division B of Public 
        Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 2106), $19,116,000.
            (7) For the construction of increment 2 of a ship repair 
        pier replacement at Norfolk Naval Shipyard, Virginia, 
        authorized by section 2201(a) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public 
        Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2633), $100,000,000.
            (8) For the construction of increment 2 of a wharves 
        improvement at Apra Harbor, Guam, authorized by section 2201(b) 
        of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2633), 
        $40,000,000.
            (9) For the construction of increment 2 of a tertiary water 
        treatment plant at Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, 
        California, authorized by section 2201(a) of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B 
        of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2632), $30,000,000.

SEC. 2205. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2008 
              PROJECT.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of 
Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 503), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201(c) of that Act 
(122 Stat. 511), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2011, or the 
date of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal 
year 2012, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2008 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                  Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide................................  Various....................  Host Nation Infrastructure.   $2,700,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2206. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2010 
              PROJECT.

    Section 2204(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2635) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(14) For the construction of the first increment of a 
        tertiary water treatment plant at Marine Corps Base Camp 
        Pendleton, California, authorized by section 2201(a), 
        $112,330,000.''.

                         TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE

SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(1), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the installations or locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama........................................   Maxwell Air Force Base.....................        $13,400,000
Alaska.........................................  Eielson Air Force Base......................        $28,000,000
                                                 Elmendorf Air Force Base....................        $36,874,000
Arizona........................................  Davis-Monthan Air Force Base................        $48,500,000
                                                 Fort Huachuca...............................        $11,000,000
California.....................................  Edwards Air Force Base......................        $15,500,000
Colorado.......................................  Buckley Air Force Base......................        $22,160,000
                                                 Peterson Air Force Base.....................        $24,800,000
                                                 U.S. Air Force Academy......................        $27,600,000
District of Columbia...........................  Bolling Air Force Base......................        $13,200,000
Delaware.......................................  Dover Air Force Base........................         $3,200,000
Florida........................................  Eglin Air Force Base........................        $11,400,000
                                                 Hurlburt Field..............................        $34,670,000
                                                 Patrick Air Force Base......................       $166,009,000
Louisiana......................................  Barksdale Air Force Base....................        $18,140,000
Montana........................................  Malmstrom Air Force Base....................         $8,000,000
Nebraska.......................................  Offutt Air Force Base.......................        $11,000,000
Nevada.........................................  Creech Air Force Base.......................        $11,710,000
                                                 Nellis Air Force Base.......................        $63,040,000
New Jersey.....................................  McGuire Air Force Base......................        $26,440,000
New Mexico.....................................  Cannon Air Force Base.......................        $38,050,000
                                                 Holloman Air Force Base.....................        $37,970,000
                                                 Kirtland Air Force Base.....................        $28,802,000
New York.......................................  Fort Drum...................................        $20,440,000
North Dakota...................................  Grand Forks Air Force Base..................        $16,500,000
                                                 Minot Air Force Base........................        $18,770,000
Oklahoma.......................................  Tinker Air Force Base.......................        $23,300,000
South Carolina.................................  Charleston Air Force Base...................        $15,000,000
South Dakota...................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base....................        $12,400,000
Texas..........................................  Dyess Air Force Base........................         $4,080,000
                                                  Ellington Field............................         $7,000,000
                                                 Lackland Air Force Base.....................       $127,280,000
                                                 Randolph Air Force Base.....................        $13,000,000
Utah...........................................  Hill Air Force Base.........................        $10,100,000
Virginia.......................................  Langley Air Force Base......................         $8,800,000
Washington.....................................  McChord Air Force Base......................        $10,400,000
Wyoming........................................  Camp Guernsey...............................         $4,650,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(2), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the installations or locations 
outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                  Air Force: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Installation or
            Country                     Location              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain........................  Shaikh Isa Air Base...      $45,000,000
Germany........................  Kapaun................      $19,600,000
                                 Ramstein Air Base.....      $22,354,000
                                 Vilseck...............      $12,900,000
Guam...........................  Andersen Air Force          $50,300,000
                                  Base.
Italy..........................  Aviano Air Base.......      $29,200,000
Korea..........................  Kunsan Air Base.......       $7,500,000
Qatar..........................  Al Udeid Air Base.....      $62,300,000
United Kingdom.................  RAF Mildenhall........      $15,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Unspecified Worldwide.--Using the amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(4), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for unspecified installations or 
locations in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                        Air Force: Unspecified Worldwide
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Location                                   Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified...........................  F-35 Squadron OPS Facility.......................  $10,260,000
                                                  F-35 Flight Simulator Facility...................  $12,190,000
                                                  F-35 Academic Training Center....................  $54,150,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(6)(A), the Secretary of the Air Force 
may carry out architectural and engineering services and construction 
design activities with respect to the construction or improvement of 
family housing units in an amount not to exceed $4,225,000.

SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(6)(A), the Secretary of the Air Force may improve existing 
military family housing units in an amount not to exceed $73,750,000.

SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2009, for military construction, land 
acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of 
the Air Force in the total amount of $1,974,942,000, as follows:
            (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
        States authorized by section 2301(a), $838,026,000.
            (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
        States authorized by section 2301(b), $264,154,000.
            (3) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
        authorized by section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $18,000,000.
            (4) For the military construction projects at unspecified 
        worldwide locations authorized by section 2301(c), $76,600,000.
            (5) For architectural and engineering services and 
        construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
        States Code, $86,336,000.
            (6) For military family housing functions:
                    (A) For construction and acquisition, planning and 
                design, and improvement of military family housing and 
                facilities, $78,025,000.
                    (B) For support of military family housing 
                (including functions described in section 2833 of title 
                10, United States Code), $513,792,000.
            (7) For the construction of increment 1 of the Air Force 
        Technical Application Center at Patrick Air Force Base, 
        Florida, as authorized by section 2101(a) of this Act, 
        $100,009,000.

SEC. 2305. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2007 
              PROJECT.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2701 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (division B of 
Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2463), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2302 of that Act (120 
Stat. 2455) and extended by section 2306 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-
84; 123 Stat. 2639), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2011, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2012, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2007 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                    Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Idaho..................................  Mountain Home Air Force      Replace Family Housing        $107,800,000
                                          Base......................   (457 units).............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                      TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES

               Subtitle A--Defense Agency Authorizations

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(1), the 
Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following tables:

                                           Defense Education Activity
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                   Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia......................................  Fort Benning.....................................      $2,800,000
New York.....................................  U.S. Military Academy............................     $27,960,000
North Carolina...............................  Fort Bragg.......................................     $45,086,000
                                               Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejeune..................     $16,646,000
Virginia.....................................  Marine Corps Base, Quantico......................     $47,355,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                       Defense Information Systems Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                   Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illinois.......................................  Scott Air Force Base...........................      $1,388,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                           Defense Intelligence Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                   Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
District Of Columbia...........................  Bolling Air Force Base.........................      $3,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                            Defense Logistics Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                   Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...................................  Naval Base, Ventura City (Point Mugu)............      $3,100,000
Georgia......................................  Hunter Air National Guard Station................      $2,400,000
Hawaii.......................................  Hickam Air Force Base............................      $8,500,000
Idaho........................................  Mountain Home Air Force Base.....................     $27,500,000
Maryland.....................................  Andrews Air Force Base...........................     $14,000,000
Ohio.........................................  Defense Supply Center, Columbus..................      $7,400,000
Pennsylvania.................................  Defense Distribution Depot, New Cumberland.......     $96,000,000
Virginia.....................................  Craney Island....................................     $58,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                            National Security Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.......................................  Augusta.........................................     $12,855,000
Maryland......................................  Fort Meade......................................    $219,360,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                           Special Operations Command
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.......................................  Yuma Proving Ground.............................      $8,977,000
Colorado......................................  Fort Carson.....................................      $3,717,000
Florida.......................................  Eglin Air Force Base............................      $6,030,000
Georgia.......................................  Fort Benning....................................     $24,065,000
                                                Hunter Army Airfield............................      $3,318,000
Hawaii........................................  Naval Station, Pearl Harbor.....................     $28,804,000
Kentucky......................................  Fort Campbell...................................     $41,695,000
Mississippi...................................  Stennis Space Center............................     $17,000,000
New Mexico....................................  Cannon Air Force Base...........................    $116,225,000
North Carolina................................  Fort Bragg......................................    $134,696,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                           TRICARE Management Activity
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                   Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia......................................  Fort Stewart.....................................     $35,100,000
Maryland.....................................  Bethesda National Naval Medical Center...........     $80,000,000
                                               Fort Detrick.....................................     $45,700,000
Massachusetts................................  Hanscom Air Force Base...........................      $2,900,000
New Mexico...................................  White Sands Missile Range........................     $22,900,000
Texas........................................  Lackland Air Force Base..........................    $162,500,000
Virginia.....................................  Fort Belvoir.....................................      $6,300,000
Washington...................................  Fort Lewis.......................................      $8,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                        Washington Headquarters Services
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                   Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virginia.....................................  Pentagon Reservation.............................     $63,324,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(2), the 
Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following tables:

                                            Defense Education Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Belgium.......................................  Brussels........................................     $67,311,000
Germany.......................................  Panzer Kaserne..................................     $48,968,000
Puerto Rico...................................  Fort Buchanan...................................     $58,708,000
United Kingdom................................  Royal Air Force Alconbury.......................     $30,308,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                            Defense Logistics Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan.........................................  Kadena Air Base.................................      $3,000,000
United Kingdom................................  RAF Mildenhall..................................     $15,900,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                            National Security Agency
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Qatar.........................................  Al Udeid Air Base...............................      $1,961,000
United Kingdom................................  Menwith Hill Station............................      $2,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                       North Atlantic Treaty Organization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Belgium.......................................  NATO Headquarters...............................     $31,863,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                           TRICARE Management Activity
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Katterbach......................................     $37,100,000
                                                Vilseck.........................................     $34,800,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2402. ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2403(6), the Secretary of Defense may carry 
out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United 
States Code, in the amount of $290,000,000.

SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for military construction, land 
acquisition, and military family housing functions of the Department of 
Defense (other than the military departments) in the total amount of 
$3,270,719,000, as follows:
            (1) For military construction projects inside the United 
        States authorized by section 2401(a), $1,88,394,000.
            (2) For military construction projects outside the United 
        States authorized by section 2401(b), $331,919,000.
            (3) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
        under section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $42,856,000.
            (4) For contingency construction projects of the Secretary 
        of Defense under section 2804 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $20,000,000.
            (5) For architectural and engineering services and 
        construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
        States Code, $451,617,000.
            (6) For energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of 
        title 10, United States Code, $290,000,000.
            (7) For military family housing functions:
                    (A) For support of military family housing 
                (including functions described in section 2833 of title 
                10, United States Code), $50,464,000.
                    (B) For credits to the Department of Defense Family 
                Housing Improvement Fund under section 2883 of title 
                10, United States Code, and the Homeowners Assistance 
                Fund established under section 1013 of the 
                Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act 
                of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374), $17,611,000.
            (8) For the construction of increment 5 of the Army Medical 
        Research Institute of Infectious Diseases Stage I at Fort 
        Detrick, Maryland, authorized by section 2401(a) of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 
        (division B of Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2457), 
        $17,400,000.
            (9) For the construction of increment 3 of replacement fuel 
        storage facilities at Point Loma Annex, California, authorized 
        by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of Public Law 110-181; 122 
        Stat. 521), as amended by section 2406 of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (division B 
        of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2646), $20,000,000.
            (10) For the construction of increment 3 of the United 
        States Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense 
        replacement facility at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, 
        authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of Public 
        Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4689), $105,000,000.
            (11) For the construction of increment 3 of a National 
        Security Agency data center at Camp Williams, Utah, authorized 
        as a Military Construction, Defense-Wide project by the 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32; 123 
        Stat. 1888), $398,358,000.
            (12) For the construction of increment 2 of the hospital at 
        Fort Bliss, Texas, authorized by section 2401(a) of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
        (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2642), 
        $147,100,000.
            (13) For the construction of increment 2 of a hospital at 
        Naval Activities, Guam, authorized by section 2401(b) of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
        (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2643), $70,000,000.
            (14) For the construction of increment 1 of the Ambulatory 
        Care Center at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas, authorized by 
        section 2401(a) of this Act, $120,000,000.

SEC. 2404. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2010 PROJECT.

    (a) Modification.--The table relating to the Missile Defense Agency 
in section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2641) is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to Redstone Arsenal, 
Alabama, the following:

 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hawaii......................  Pacific Missile Range          $68,500,000
                               Facility.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 2404(a)(1) of 
        that Act (123 Stat. 2644) is amended by striking 
        ``$1,048,783,000'' and inserting ``$1,117,283,000''.
            (2) Funding tables.--The table in section 4501 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public 
        Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2812) is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to TFI--F-22 Parking Apron and Taxiways at Hickam 
        Air Force Base, Hawaii, a Defense-Wide account item for an 
        Aegis Ashore Test Facility at the Pacific Missile Range 
        Facility, Hawaii, for which funds were made available by title 
        I of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 (division E of Public Law 
        111-117; 123 Stat. 3286) under the heading ``Military 
        Construction, Defense-Wide''.

          Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Authorizations

SEC. 2411. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, CHEMICAL DEMILITARIZATION 
              CONSTRUCTION, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for military construction and land 
acquisition for chemical demilitarization in the total amount of 
$124,971,000, as follows:
            (1) For the construction of phase 12 of a chemical 
        munitions demilitarization facility at Pueblo Chemical 
        Activity, Colorado, authorized by section 2401(a) of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 
        (division B of Public Law 104-201; 110 Stat. 2775), as amended 
        by section 2406 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of Public Law 106-65; 113 
        Stat. 839), section 2407 of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (division B of Public 
        Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 2698), and section 2413 of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B 
        of Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4697), $65,569,000.
            (2) For the construction of phase 11 of a munitions 
        demilitarization facility at Blue Grass Army Depot, Kentucky, 
        authorized by section 2401(a) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of Public 
        Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 835), as amended by section 2405 of the 
        Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 
        (division B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1298), section 
        2405 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2003 (division B of Public Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 2698), 
        and section 2414 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of Public Law 110-417; 122 
        Stat. 4697), and section 2412 of this Act, $59,402,000.

SEC. 2412. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2000 PROJECT.

    (a) Modification.--The table in section 2401(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of 
Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 835), as amended by section 2405 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (division 
B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1298), section 2405 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (division B of 
Public Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 2698), and section 2414 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of 
Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4697), is amended--
            (1) in the item relating to Blue Grass Army Depot, 
        Kentucky, by striking ``$492,000,000'' in the amount column and 
        inserting ``$746,000,000''; and
            (2) by striking the amount identified as the total in the 
        amount column and inserting ``$1,203,920,000''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2405(b)(3) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of 
Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 839), as amended by section 2405 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (division 
B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1298), section 2405 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (division B of 
Public Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 2698), and section 2414 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of 
Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4697), is further amended by striking 
``$469,200,000'' and inserting ``$723,200,000''.

   TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT 
                                PROGRAM

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.

SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for contributions by the Secretary 
of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by 
section 2501, in the amount of $258,884,000.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(1), the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                  Army National Guard: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                          Location                           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.....................................  Fort McChelan....................................       $5,635,000
Arizona.....................................  Florence.........................................      $16,500,000
Arkansas....................................  Camp Robinson....................................      $30,000,000
                                              Fort Chafee......................................      $25,000,000
California..................................  Camp Roberts.....................................      $19,000,000
Colorado....................................  Colorado Springs.................................      $20,000,000
                                              Fort Carson......................................      $40,000,000
                                              Gypsum...........................................      $39,000,000
                                              Windsor..........................................       $7,500,000
Connecticut.................................  Windsor Locks....................................      $41,000,000
Delaware....................................  New Castle.......................................      $27,000,000
Georgia.....................................  Cumming..........................................      $17,000,000
                                              Dobbins Air Reserve Base.........................      $10,400,000
Hawaii......................................  Kalaeloa.........................................      $38,000,000
Idaho.......................................  Gowen Field......................................      $17,500,000
                                              Mountain Home....................................       $6,300,000
Illinois....................................  Springfield......................................      $15,000,000
Iowa........................................  Camp Dodge.......................................       $5,700,000
Kansas......................................  Wichita..........................................      $67,000,000
                                              Topeka Army Aviation Support Facility............       $9,036,000
Kentucky....................................  Burlington.......................................      $19,500,000
Louisiana...................................  Fort Polk........................................       $5,500,000
                                              Minden...........................................      $28,000,000
Maryland....................................  St. Inigoes......................................       $5,500,000
Massachusetts...............................  Hanscom Air Force Base...........................      $23,000,000
Michigan....................................  Camp Grayling Range..............................      $37,697,000
Minnesota...................................  Arden Hills......................................      $29,000,000
                                              Camp Ripley......................................       $8,750,000
Missouri....................................  Fort Leonard Wood................................      $13,800,000
Nebraska....................................  Lincoln..........................................       $3,300,000
                                              Mead.............................................      $11,400,000
New Hampshire...............................  Pembroke.........................................      $36,000,000
New Mexico..................................  Farmington.......................................       $8,500,000
North Carolina..............................  High Point.......................................       $1,551,000
North Dakota................................  Camp Grafton.....................................      $11,200,000
Rhode Island................................  East Greenwich...................................      $27,000,000
South Dakota................................  Watertown........................................      $25,000,000
Texas.......................................  Camp Maxey.......................................       $2,500,000
                                              Camp Swift.......................................       $2,600,000
Washington..................................  Tacoma...........................................      $25,000,000
West Virginia...............................  Moorefield.......................................      $14,200,000
                                              Morgantown.......................................      $21,000,000
Wisconsin...................................  Madison..........................................       $5,700,000
Wyoming.....................................  Laramie..........................................      $14,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(1), the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                 Army National Guard: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                         Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam..........................................  Barrigada......................................      $19,000,000
Virgin Islands................................  St. Croix......................................      $25,000,000
Puerto Rico...................................  Santiago.......................................      $95,100,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Unspecified Worldwide.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(1), the Secretary 
of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for unspecified installations or locations in the 
amounts set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Location                                 Location or Installation                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................      $37,063,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(2), the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Fairfield......................................      $26,000,000
                                                Fort Hunter Liggett............................      $52,000,000
Florida.......................................  Miami..........................................      $13,800,000
                                                Orlando........................................      $10,200,000
                                                West Palm Beach................................      $10,400,000
Georgia.......................................  Macon..........................................      $11,400,000
Illinois......................................  Quincy.........................................      $12,200,000
                                                Rockford U.S. Army Reserve Center..............      $13,000,000
Indiana.......................................  Michigan City..................................      $15,500,000
Iowa..........................................  Des Moines.....................................       $8,175,000
Massachusetts.................................  Devens Reserve Forces Training Area............       $4,700,000
Missouri......................................  Kansas City....................................      $11,800,000
New Mexico....................................  Las Cruces.....................................      $11,400,000
New York......................................  Binghamton.....................................      $13,400,000
Texas.........................................  Dallas.........................................      $12,600,000
                                                Fort Hood......................................      $15,500,000
                                                Rio Grande.....................................       $6,100,000
                                                San Marcos.....................................       $8,500,000
Virginia......................................  Fort A.P. Hill.................................      $15,500,000
                                                Roanoke........................................      $14,800,000
                                                Virginia Beach.................................      $11,000,000
Wisconsin.....................................  Fort McCoy.....................................      $19,800,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Unspecified Worldwide.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(2), the Secretary 
of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for unspecified installations or locations in the 
amounts set forth in the following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Location                                 Location or Installation                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................      $28,900,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
              CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(3), the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................................  Marine Corps Base, Twentynine Palms............       $5,991,000
Louisiana.....................................  New Orleans....................................      $16,281,000
Virginia......................................  Williamsburg...................................      $21,346,000
Washington....................................  Yakima.........................................      $13,844,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Unspecified Worldwide.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(3), the Secretary 
of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for unspecified installations or locations in the 
amounts set forth in the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Location                                 Location or Installation                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................       $4,095,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(4), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Montgomery Regional Airport (ANG)..............      $14,972,000
Alaska........................................  Eielson Air Force Base.........................       $6,500,000
Arizona.......................................  Davis Monthan Air Force Base...................       $4,650,000
Arkansas......................................  Little Rock Air Force Base.....................      $10,400,000
Delaware......................................  New Castle County Airport......................      $10,200,000
Florida.......................................  Jacksonville International Airport.............       $6,700,000
Georgia.......................................  Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport.....       $7,450,000
Hawaii........................................  Hickam Air Force Base..........................      $71,450,000
Illinois......................................  Capital Municipal Airport......................      $16,700,000
Indiana.......................................  Hulman Regional Airport........................       $4,100,000
Iowa..........................................  Des Moines.....................................       $4,700,000
Maryland......................................  Martin State Airport...........................      $11,400,000
Massachusetts.................................  Barnes Municipal Airport.......................       $6,000,000
Michigan......................................  Alpena Combat Readiness Training Center........       $9,600,000
New Jersey....................................  Atlantic City..................................       $8,500,000
New York......................................  Fort Drum......................................       $2,500,000
New York......................................  Stewart International Airport..................      $14,250,000
North Carolina................................  Stanly County Airport..........................       $2,000,000
Ohio..........................................  Toledo Express Airport.........................       $7,300,000
Oregon........................................  Kingsley Field Air National Guard Base.........       $7,000,000
Pennsylvania..................................  State College Air National Guard Station.......       $4,100,000
Rhode Island..................................  Quonset State Airport..........................       $1,800,000
South Carolina................................  McEntire.......................................       $9,100,000
South Dakota..................................  Joe Foss Field.................................      $12,800,000
Tennessee.....................................  McGhee Tyson Air National Guard Base...........       $6,500,000
                                                Nashville International Airport................       $5,500,000
Vermont.......................................  Burlington International Airport...............      $11,000,000
West Virginia.................................  Yeager Air Force Base..........................      $19,250,000
Wisconsin.....................................  General Mitchell International Airport.........       $8,300,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Unspecified Worldwide.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(4), the Secretary 
of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for unspecified installations or locations in the 
amounts set forth in the following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Location                                 Location or Installation                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................      $17,214,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(5), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve location 
inside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following 
table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                          Location                          Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.......................................  Patrick Air Force Base.........................       $3,420,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Unspecified Worldwide.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2606(5), the Secretary 
of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for unspecified installations or locations in the 
amounts set forth in the following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Location                                 Location or Installation                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations................       $4,412,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), in the following amounts:
            (1) For the Department of the Army, for the Army National 
        Guard of the United States, $963,030,000.
            (2) For the Department of the Army, for the Army Reserve, 
        $351,675,000.
            (3) For the Department of the Navy, for the Navy and Marine 
        Corps Reserve, $61,557,000.
            (4) For the Department of the Air Force, for the Air 
        National Guard of the United States, $336,086,000.
            (5) For the Department of the Air Force, for the Air Force 
        Reserve, $7,832,000.

SEC. 2607. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2008 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2701 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of 
Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 531), the authorization set forth in the 
tables in subsection (b), as provided in section 2601 and 2604 of that 
Act, shall remain in effect until October 1, 2011, or the date of the 
enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for 
fiscal year 2012, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The tables referred to in subsection (a) are as 
follows:

                          Army National Guard: Extension of 2008 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                  Installation or Location               Project                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pennsylvania..........................  East Fallowfield          Readiness Center (SBCT)..........  $ 8,300,000
                                         Township.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                           Air National Guard: Extension of 2008 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                  Installation or Location               Project                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vermont...............................  Burlington..............  Base Security Improvements.......  $ 6,600,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

          TITLE XXVII--BASE CLOSURE AND REALIGNMENT ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE CLOSURE AND 
              REALIGNMENT ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT 1990.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for base closure and realignment 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account 1990 established by section 2906 of such Act, in the 
total amount of $360,474,000 , as follows:
            (1) For the Department of the Army, $73,600,000.
            (2) For the Department of the Navy, $162,000,000.
            (3) For the Department of the Air Force, $124,874,000.

SEC. 2702. AUTHORIZED BASE CLOSURE AND REALIGNMENT ACTIVITIES FUNDED 
              THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT 2005.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2703, the Secretary of Defense may carry out 
base closure and realignment activities, including real property 
acquisition and military construction projects, as authorized by the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX 
of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account 2005 established by section 
2906A of such Act, in the amount of $2,354,285,000.

SEC. 2703. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE CLOSURE AND 
              REALIGNMENT ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT 2005.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2010, for base closure and realignment 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account 2005 established by section 2906A of such Act, in the 
total amount of $2,354,285,000 , as follows:
            (1) For the Department of the Army, $1,012,420,000.
            (2) For the Department of the Navy, $342,146,000.
            (3) For the Department of the Air Force, $127,255,000.
            (4) For the Defense Agencies, $872,464,000.

          TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes

SEC. 2801. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION 
              AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS OUTSIDE 
              THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Extension of Authority to Area of Responsibility of United 
States Africa Command.--Subsection (a) of section 2808 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division B of 
Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), as most recently amended by 
section 2806 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2663), is amended 
by striking ``United States Central Command area of responsibility'' 
and inserting ``area of responsibility of the United States Central 
Command or that portion of the area of responsibility of the United 
States Africa Command formerly within the area of responsibility of the 
United States Central Command''.
    (b) One-year Extension of Authority.--Such section is further 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``fiscal year 2010'' 
        and inserting ``fiscal year 2011''; and
            (2) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 
                2010'' and inserting ``September 30, 2011''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 
                2011'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2012''.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

SEC. 2811. LIMITATION ON ENHANCED USE LEASES OF NON-EXCESS PROPERTY.

    (a) In General.--Section 2667(b)(7) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, or 
otherwise commit the Secretary concerned or the Department of Defense 
to annual payments in excess of such amount.''.
    (b) Armed Forces Retirement Home.--Section 1511(i)(2) of the Armed 
Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 411(i)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) may not provide for a leaseback by the Retirement 
        Home with an annual payment in excess of $100,000, or otherwise 
        commit the Retirement Home or the Department of Defense to 
        annual payments in excess of such amount.''.

                      Subtitle C--Energy Security

SEC. 2821. ENHANCEMENT OF ENERGY SECURITY ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Energy Performance Master Plan.--
            (1) Enhancement of energy performance plan to master 
        plan.--Subsection (b) of section 2911 of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Energy Performance Master Plan.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall develop a comprehensive master plan for the achievement of the 
energy performance goals of the Department of Defense.
    ``(2) The master plan shall include the following:
            ``(A) A separate master plan, developed by each military 
        department and Defense Agency, for the achievement of energy 
        performance goals.
            ``(B) A baseline standard for the measurement of energy 
        consumption by transportation systems, support systems, 
        utilities, and facilities and infrastructure.
            ``(C) A method of measurement of reductions or conservation 
        in energy consumption that provides for the taking into account 
        of changes in the current size of fleets, number of facilities, 
        and overall square footage of facility plants.
            ``(D) Metrics to track annual progress in meeting energy 
        performance goals.
            ``(E) A description of specific requirements, and proposed 
        investments, in connection with the achievement of energy 
        performance goals reflected in the budget of the President for 
        each fiscal year (as submitted to Congress under section 
        1105(a) of title 31).
    ``(3) The Secretary shall submit a current version of the master 
plan to Congress each year at or about the time at which the budget of 
the President is submitted to Congress in such year under section 
1105(a) of title 31.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Such section is further amended 
        by striking ``plan'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``master plan''.
            (3) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2911. Energy performance goals and master plan for the 
              Department of Defense''.
    (b) Expansion of Facilities for Which Use of Renewable Energy and 
Energy Efficient Products Is Required.--
            (1) Renewable energy.--Subsection (a) of section 2915 of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Encouraged'';
                    (B) by striking ``encourage the'' and inserting 
                ``prescribe guidance to ensure the maximum 
                practicable'';
                    (C) by inserting ``and facility repairs and 
                renovations'' after ``military family housing 
                projects)''; and
                    (D) by striking ``energy performance plan'' and 
                inserting ``energy performance master plan''.
            (2) Consideration in design.--Subsection (b)(1) of such 
        section is amended by striking ``the design'' and all that 
        follows and inserting ``the design for the construction, 
        repair, or renovation of facilities (including family housing, 
        back-up power generation facilities, and temporary or 
        expeditionary facilities in support of contingency operations) 
        incorporates, to the maximum extent practicable, energy systems 
        using solar energy or other renewable forms of energy.''.
            (3) Energy efficient products.--Subsection (e) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) by striking the heading and inserting the 
                following: ``Use of Energy Efficient Products in 
                Facilities.--'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``new facility 
                        construction'' and inserting ``construction, 
                        repair, or renovation of facilities''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``energy performance 
                        plan'' and inserting ``energy performance 
                        master plan'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, energy efficient products 
shall include the following:
            ``(A) Roof-top solar thermal, photovoltaic, and energy 
        reducing coating technologies.
            ``(B) Energy management control and supervisory control and 
        data acquisition systems.
            ``(C) Energy efficient heating, ventilation, and air 
        conditioning systems.
            ``(D) Thermal windows and insulation systems.
            ``(E) Electric meters.
            ``(F) Lighting, equipment, and appliances that are designed 
        to use less electricity.
            ``(G) Hybrid vehicle plug-in charging stations.
            ``(H) Solar-power collecting structures to shade vehicle 
        parking areas.''.
            (4) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2915. Facilities: use of renewable forms of energy and energy 
              efficient products''.
    (c) Other Amendments.--
            (1) Conforming amendments.--Section 2925(a) of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``energy performance 
        plan'' each place it appears and inserting ``energy performance 
        master plan''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter I of chapter 173 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking the item relating to section 2911 
                and inserting the following new item:

``2911. Energy performance goals and master plan for the Department of 
                            Defense.''; and
                    (B) by striking the item relating to section 2915 
                and inserting the following new item:

``2915. Facilities: use of renewable forms of energy and energy 
                            efficient products.''.

SEC. 2822. PERMANENT AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT AND USE LANDING FEES CHARGED 
              TO USE OF DOMESTIC AIRFIELDS BY CIVIL AIRCRAFT.

    Section 377 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``pilot program 
        for'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Pilot Program 
                Authorized'' and inserting ``Authority''; and
                    (B) by striking ``may carry out a pilot program to 
                demonstrate the use of landing fees'' and inserting 
                ``may use landing fees'';
            (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``of the pilot 
        program''; and
            (4) by striking subsections (d) and (e).

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2831. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORT KNOX, KENTUCKY.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may convey, 
without consideration, to the Department of Veterans Affairs of the 
Commonwealth of Kentucky (in this section referred to as the 
``Department'') all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 194 acres at Fort Knox, Kentucky, for the 
purpose of permitting the Department to establish and operate a State 
veterans home and future expansion of the adjacent State veterans 
cemetery for veterans and eligible family members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being used 
in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified in such 
subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to the property shall 
revert, at the option of the Secretary, to the United States, and the 
United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto the 
property. Any determination of the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (c) Payment or Costs of Conveyance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall require the Department 
        to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse 
        the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out 
        the conveyance under subsection (a), including costs related to 
        environmental documentation and other administrative costs. 
        This paragraph does not apply to costs associated with the 
        environment al remediation of the property to be conveyed.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
        reimbursements under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the 
        fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by 
        the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance. Amounts so 
        credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account 
        and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to 
        the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
        account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.

SEC. 2832. LAND CONVEYANCES, NAVAL SUPPORT ACTIVITY (WEST BANK), NEW 
              ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of 
        the Navy may convey to the Algiers Development District, all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in the real 
        property comprising the Naval Support Activity (West Bank of 
        the Mississippi River), including any improvements, facilities 
        and available personal property located on such real property 
        and excepting and excluding from such conveyance the real 
        property defined in this section as--
                    (A) the Secured Area, which shall remain subject to 
                the Lease; and
                    (B) Quarters A.
            (2) Timing.--The authority to convey property under 
        subsection (a) may only be exercised after--
                    (A) the Secretary determines that the property is 
                no longer needed by the Department of the Navy; and
                    (B) the Algiers Development District has delivered 
                the full consideration as required by Article 3 of the 
                Lease.
    (b) Condition of Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized by 
subsection (a) shall include a condition that expressly prohibits any 
use of the property that would interfere or otherwise restrict 
operations of the Department of the Navy in the Secured Area as 
determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Additional Conveyances.--
            (1) Quarters a site.--If at any time the Secretary 
        determines that the Department of the Navy no longer has a 
        continuing requirement for general officers quarters to be 
        located on the Quarters A site or the Department of the Navy 
        elects or offers to transfer, sell, lease, assign, gift, or 
        otherwise convey, any or all of the Quarters A site, or any 
        improvements thereon, to any third party, the Secretary may 
        convey to the Algiers Development District the Quarters A site 
        and the land underlying such facilities.
            (2) Marine forces reserve headquarters.--If at any time the 
        Secretary determines and notifies the Algiers Development 
        District that the Department of the Navy no longer has a 
        continuing requirement to occupy or otherwise control the 
        Secured Area to support the mission of the Marine Forces 
        Reserve or other comparable Marine Corps use, the Secretary may 
        convey to the Algiers Development District the Secured Area and 
        any improvements thereon.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
of property under this section, consistent with the Lease, as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interest of the United 
States.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Algiers development district.--The term ``Algiers 
        Development District'' means the Algiers Development District, 
        a local political subdivision of the State of Louisiana.
            (2) Lease.--The term ``Lease'' means that certain Real 
        Estate Lease for Naval Support Activity New Orleans, West Bank, 
        New Orleans, Louisiana, Lease No. N47692-08-RP-08P30, by and 
        between the United States of America, acting by and through the 
        Department of the Navy, and the Algiers Development District, 
        dated September 30, 2008.
            (3) Quarters a.--The term ``Quarters A'' means the land and 
        buildings commonly referred to as Quarter A and located at 
        Sanctuary Drive and as determined by a survey satisfactory to 
        the Secretary.
            (4) Secured area.--The term ``Secured Area'' means the land 
        and improvements located within the approximately 29 acre area 
        described in the Lease.

SEC. 2833. AUTHORITY FOR USE OF UNOBLIGATED FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A 
              REPLACEMENT FIRE STATION AT FORT BELVOIR, VIRGINIA.

    Section 2836(d) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2002 (division B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1314), as 
most recently amended by section 2849 of the John Warner National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
Stat. 2486), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``through a project for 
        construction of an Army standard-design, two-company fire 
        station at Fort Belvoir, Virginia,'' after ``Building 191''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) The Secretary may use up to $3,900,000 of available, 
        unobligated Army military construction funds appropriated for a 
        fiscal year before fiscal year 2011, in conjunction with the 
        funds provided under paragraph (1), for the project described 
        in paragraph (2).''.

                          Subtitle E--Reports

SEC. 2841. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS PENDING REPORTS 
              REGARDING CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW OUTLYING LANDING FIELD 
              (OLF) IN NORTH CAROLINA AND VIRGINIA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Navy has studied the feasibility and potential 
        locations of a new Outlying Landing Field (OLF) on the East 
        Coast since 2001.
            (2) Since January 2008, the Navy has studied five potential 
        sites in North Carolina and Virginia, whose communities have 
        expressed opposition. The local governments of the North 
        Carolina counties where the sites under consideration are 
        located have taken formal action in opposition by resolution 
        and correspondence to the Navy and congressional officials.
            (3) In April 2009, the North Carolina General Assembly 
        unanimously passed an amendment to General Statute 104-7 
        (Federal Enclave), which clearly states that North Carolina 
        does not consent to acquisition of land by the Federal 
        Government in any county which does not already have a military 
        installation ``for the purpose of establishing an outlying 
        landing field to support training and operations of aircraft 
        squadrons stationed at or transient to military bases or 
        military stations located outside of the State''.
            (4) In response to this law and its constitutional 
        significance, the Attorney General of North Carolina is 
        monitoring the OLF siting process and all related legal 
        implications.
            (5) The Commissioner of Agriculture and the Superintendent 
        of Public Instruction of North Carolina have stated formal 
        opposition to locating an OLF at the two North Carolina sites 
        as detrimental to the education of children and destructive of 
        a vibrant agricultural economy.
    (b) Limitation on Funds Pending Reports.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy may not obligate 
        or expend funds for the study or development of a new OLF in 
        North Carolina or Virginia after fiscal year 2011 until the 
        Secretary has provided the congressional defense committees a 
        report on the Navy's efforts with respect to the OLF.
            (2) Elements of report.--The report required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the actual training 
                requirements and completed training events involving 
                Fleet Carrier Landing Practice (FCLP) operations at 
                Naval Air Station Oceana and Naval Auxiliary Landing 
                Field Fentress for the previous 10 years, to include 
                statistics for the current fiscal year.
                    (B) An assessment of the aviation training 
                requirements and completed aviation training events 
                conducted on all existing OLFs and installations in the 
                Navy's inventory located on the East Coast, to include 
                statistics for the current fiscal year.
                    (C) An assessment of the suitability of all Naval 
                installations on the East Coast to conduct Fleet 
                Carrier Landing Practice (FCLP) operations, including 
                necessary facility modifications and requirements to 
                de-conflict with current operations at each 
                installation.
                    (D) A description of the estimated funding 
                necessary to construct a new OLF at each of the five 
                sites under current consideration, and a cost 
                comparison analysis between construction of a new OLF 
                versus rehabilitation of an existing facility.
                    (E) A description of all completed or pending 
                environmental studies conducted on any of the five 
                sites currently under consideration, including the 
                methodology, conclusions, and recommendations.
                    (F) A description of all contacts by the Navy with 
                local governments and citizens groups at all five sites 
                currently under consideration.
                    (G) Criteria for the basing of the Joint Strike 
                Fighter F-35C aircraft and a description of the OLF 
                facilities that will be required to support its 
                training requirements.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 2851. FURTHER ENHANCEMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HOMEOWNERS 
              ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Homeowners Assistance Related to Closed Military 
Installations.--Subsection (c)(1)(A) of section 1013 of the 
Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 3374) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``elect 
        either--'' and inserting ``elect to receive either of the 
        following:'';
            (2) in clause (i)--
                    (A) by striking ``to receive a cash payment'' and 
                inserting ``A cash payment'';
                    (B) by striking ``the difference between--'' and 
                inserting ``the greater of the following:''; and
                    (C) by striking subclauses (I) and (II) and 
                inserting the following:
                                    ``(I) The amount of the difference 
                                between--
                                            ``(aa) 95 percent of the 
                                        fair market value of their 
                                        property (as such value is 
                                        determined by the Secretary of 
                                        Defense) prior to public 
                                        announcement of intention to 
                                        close all or part of the 
                                        military base or installation; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) the fair market 
                                        value of such property (as such 
                                        value is determined by the 
                                        Secretary of Defense) at the 
                                        time of the sale.
                                    ``(II) The amount of the difference 
                                between--
                                            ``(aa) the amount of the 
                                        outstanding mortgages; and
                                            ``(bb) the fair market 
                                        value of such property (as such 
                                        value is determined by the 
                                        Secretary of Defense) at the 
                                        time of the sale.''; and
            (3) in clause (ii), by striking ``to receive, as purchase 
        price'' and inserting ``As purchase price''.
    (b) Homeowners Assistance for Wounded Individuals and Their 
Spouses.--Subsection (c)(2)(A) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``elect 
        either--'' and inserting ``elect to receive either of the 
        following:'';
            (2) in clause (i)--
                    (A) by striking ``to receive a cash payment'' and 
                inserting ``A cash payment'';
                    (B) by striking ``the difference between--'' and 
                inserting ``the greater of the following:''; and
                    (C) by striking subclauses (I) and (II) and 
                inserting the following:
                                    ``(I) The amount of the difference 
                                between--
                                            ``(aa) 95 percent of prior 
                                        fair market value of their 
                                        property (as such value is 
                                        determined by the Secretary of 
                                        Defense); and
                                            ``(bb) the fair market 
                                        value of such property (as such 
                                        value is determined by the 
                                        Secretary of Defense) at the 
                                        time of the sale.
                                    ``(II) The amount of the difference 
                                between--
                                            ``(aa) the amount of the 
                                        outstanding mortgages; and
                                            ``(bb) the fair market 
                                        value of such property (as such 
                                        value is determined by the 
                                        Secretary of Defense) at the 
                                        time of the sale.''; and
            (3) in clause (ii), by striking ``to receive, as purchase 
        price'' and inserting ``As purchase price''.
    (c) Homeowners Assistance for Permanently Reassigned Individuals.--
Subsection (c)(3)(A) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``elect 
        either--'' and inserting ``elect to receive either of the 
        following:'';
            (2) in clause (i)--
                    (A) by striking ``to receive a cash payment'' and 
                inserting ``A cash payment'';
                    (B) by striking ``the difference between--'' and 
                inserting ``the greater of the following:''; and
                    (C) by striking subclauses (I) and (II) and 
                inserting the following:
                                    ``(I) The amount of the difference 
                                between--
                                            ``(aa) 95 percent of prior 
                                        fair market value of their 
                                        property (as such value is 
                                        determined by the Secretary of 
                                        Defense); and
                                            ``(bb) the fair market 
                                        value of such property (as such 
                                        value is determined by the 
                                        Secretary of Defense) at the 
                                        time of the sale.
                                    ``(II) The amount of the difference 
                                between--
                                            ``(aa) the amount of the 
                                        outstanding mortgages; and
                                            ``(bb) the fair market 
                                        value of such property (as such 
                                        value is determined by the 
                                        Secretary of Defense) at the 
                                        time of the sale.''; and
            (3) in clause (ii), by striking ``to receive, as purchase 
        price'' and inserting ``As purchase price''.

SEC. 2852. LEASE OF AIRBORNE AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS MUSEUM FACILITY.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 449 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 4772 the following new section:
``Sec. 4773. Lease of Airborne and Special Operations Museum facility
    ``(a) Authorization of Lease.--Under such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary of the Army considers appropriate, the Secretary may 
lease portions of the facility of the Airborne and Special Operations 
Museum to the Airborne and Special Operations Museum Foundation to be 
used by the Foundation, consistent with the purpose of the Museum, 
for--
            ``(1) generating revenue for activities of the Museum 
        through rental use by the public, commercial and nonprofit 
        entities, State and local governments, and other Federal 
        agencies; and
            ``(2) such administrative purposes as may be necessary for 
        the support of the Museum.
    ``(b) Limitation on Annual Consideration for Lease.--The annual 
amount of consideration paid to the Secretary of the Army by the 
Airborne and Special Operations Museum Foundation for a lease under 
subsection (a) may not exceed an amount equal to the actual cost, as 
determined by the Secretary, of the annual operations and maintenance 
of the Airborne and Special Operations Museum.
    ``(c) Use of Proceeds of Lease.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the Secretary of the Army shall use amounts paid 
under subsection (b) to cover the costs of operation of the Airborne 
and Special Operations Museum.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 449 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 4772 the following new item:

``4773. Lease of Airborne and Special Operations Museum facility.''.

SEC. 2853. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON THE PROPOSED EXTENSION OF THE ALASKA 
              RAILROAD CORRIDOR ACROSS FEDERAL LAND IN ALASKA.

    (a) Finding.--The Senate finds that the Alaska Railroad proposes 
the extension of its railroad corridor over approximately 950 acres of 
land located south and east of North Pole, Alaska, including lands 
located near or adjacent to the Chena River spillway, Eielson Air Force 
Base, Tanana Flats Training Area (Fort Wainwright), Donnelly Training 
Area (Fort Wainwright), and Fort Greely.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Department of the Army and the Department of the Air Force should 
explore means of accommodating this expansion using existing 
authorities that will not adversely impact military missions, 
operations, and training.

SEC. 2854. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON MILITARY HOUSING FOR THE AIR FORCE.

    (a) Finding.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In the mid-1990s, the Department of Defense became 
        concerned that inadequate and poor quality housing was hurting 
        quality of life and readiness by contributing to 
        servicemembers' decisions to leave the military.
            (2) At that time, the Department of Defense designated 
        about 180,000 houses, or nearly two-thirds of its domestic 
        family housing inventory, as inadequate, needing repair or 
        complete replacement.
            (3) The Department of Defense believed that it would need 
        about $20,000,000,000 in appropriated funds and would take up 
        to 40 years to eliminate poor quality military housing through 
        new construction or renovation using its traditional military 
        construction approach.
            (4) In 1996, Congress enacted the Military Housing 
        Privatization Initiative to provide the Department of Defense 
        with a variety of authorities to obtain private sector 
        financing and management for the repair, renovation, 
        construction, and management of military family housing.
            (5) The United States Air Force has used those authorities 
        to award 27 projects at 44 military bases to improve over 
        37,000 homes.
            (6) The Air Force has received $7,100,000,000 in total 
        development investment from the private sector for new housing 
        with a taxpayer contribution of approximately $425,000,000, 
        representing a 15 to 1 leveraging of taxpayer dollars.
            (7) The Air Force, like the other military services, has 
        been able to leverage varying conditions of housing at military 
        bases into fiscally viable projects by packaging housing 
        inventories at multiple bases into one transaction.
            (8) Congress has approved transactions involving the 
        packaging of multiple bases as a critical tool to maximize the 
        efficient use of taxpayer funds.
            (9) Congress supports the goal of the Air Force to complete 
        transactions for the repair, renovation, construction, and 
        management of 100 percent of their military family housing 
        inventory in the United States by the end of 2010.
            (10) The Air Force currently has 6 project solicitations 
        prepared for open competition at 22 Air Force installations to 
        improve over 15,000 homes.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of the Air Force should use existing authority to carry out 
solicitations for the 6 military housing projects involving the 
packaging of 22 bases consistent with the goal of improving 15,000 
homes for Air Force personnel and their families by the end of 2010.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
                             AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in subsection (b)(1), the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                  Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Afghanistan....................................  Bagram Air Base................................    $333,630,000
                                                 Dwyer..........................................     $71,900,000
                                                 Frontenac......................................      $8,400,000
                                                 Kabul..........................................     $24,000,000
                                                 Kandahar.......................................     $80,000,000
                                                 Maywand........................................      $7,000,000
                                                 Shank..........................................     $88,400,000
                                                 Sharana........................................     $12,400,000
                                                 Tarin Kowt.....................................     $28,200,000
                                                 Tombstone/Bastion..............................    $109,000,000
                                                 Various locations..............................     $40,000,000
                                                 Wolverine......................................     $47,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2010, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army in the total amount of 
$1,028,176,000 as follows:
            (1) For military construction projects outside the United 
        States authorized by subsection (a), $850,130,000.
            (2) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
        under section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $78,330,000.
            (3) For architectural and engineering services and 
        construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
        States Code, $99,716,000.

SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in subsection (b)(1), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the installations or locations 
outside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                  Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Afghanistan....................................  Bagram Air Base................................     $42,960,000
                                                 Kandahar.......................................     $14,500,000
                                                 Shindand.......................................     $15,800,000
                                                 Tombstone/Bastion..............................      $2,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2010, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force in the total 
amount of $193,766,000, as follows:
            (1) For military construction projects outside the United 
        States authorized by subsection (a), $75,760,000.
            (2) For architectural and engineering services and 
        construction design under section 2807 of title 10, United 
        States Code, $18,422,000.
            (3) For unspecified minor military construction projects 
        under section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, 
        $99,584,000.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2011 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4601.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
            (1) For readiness in technical base and facilities, the 
        following new plant project:
                    Project 11-D-801, TA55 Reinvestment Project-Phase 
                II, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New 
                Mexico, $20,000,000.
            (2) For site stewardship, the following new plant project:
                    Project 11-D-601, sanitary effluent reclamation 
                facility expansion, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los 
                Alamos, New Mexico, $15,000,000.

SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2011 for defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601.

SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2011 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. ASSESSMENT OF ADEQUACY OF BUDGET REQUESTS WITH RESPECT TO 
              MAINTAINING THE NUCLEAR WEAPONS STOCKPILE.

    (a) In General.--Section 3255 of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2455) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 3255. ASSESSMENT OF ADEQUACY OF BUDGET REQUESTS WITH RESPECT TO 
              MAINTAINING THE NUCLEAR WEAPONS STOCKPILE.

    ``(a) Assessment of Adequacy of Budget Requests.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall include with the 
        nuclear security budget materials submitted for each fiscal 
        year an assessment by the Administrator of whether the budget 
        materials specified in paragraph (2) provide for funding of the 
        nuclear security complex and programs and activities to be 
        carried out during that fiscal year at a level adequate to 
        support the plans, programs, and activities described in the 
        plan for maintaining the nuclear weapons stockpile required by 
        section 4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523).
            ``(2) Budget materials specified.--The budget materials 
        specified in this paragraph are the budget for a fiscal year 
        and the future-years nuclear security program submitted to 
        Congress in relation to that budget under section 3253.
    ``(b) Assessment of Risks and Implications of Inadequate Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the Administrator determines under 
        subsection (a) that funding requested for a fiscal year for the 
        nuclear security complex is inadequate to support the plans, 
        programs, and activities referred to in subsection (a), the 
        Administrator shall include with the nuclear security budget 
        materials for that fiscal year an assessment of the risks and 
        implications of inadequate funding with respect to the ability 
        of the nuclear security complex--
                    ``(A) to support the annual certification of the 
                nuclear weapons stockpile under section 4203 of the 
                Atomic Energy Defense Act; and
                    ``(B) to maintain the long-term safety, security, 
                and reliability of the nuclear weapons stockpile.
            ``(2) Coordination.--In making the assessment described in 
        paragraph (1), the Administrator shall coordinate in advance 
        with the Secretary of Defense and the Commander of the United 
        States Strategic Command.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Budget.--The term `budget' means the budget for a 
        fiscal year that is submitted to Congress by the President 
        under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
            ``(2) Nuclear security budget materials.--The term `nuclear 
        security budget materials' means the materials submitted to 
        Congress by the Administrator in support of the budget for a 
        fiscal year.
            ``(3) Nuclear security complex.--The term `nuclear security 
        complex' means the physical facilities, technology, and human 
        capital of the following:
                    ``(A) The national security laboratories.
                    ``(B) The Kansas City Plant, Kansas City, Missouri.
                    ``(C) The Nevada Test Site, Nevada.
                    ``(D) The Savannah River Site, Aiken, South 
                Carolina.
                    ``(E) The Y-12 National Security Complex, Oak 
                Ridge, Tennessee.
                    ``(F) The Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 3255 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 3255. Assessment of adequacy of budget requests with respect to 
                            maintaining the nuclear weapons 
                            stockpile.''.

SEC. 3112. BIENNIAL PLAN ON MODERNIZATION AND REFURBISHMENT OF THE 
              NUCLEAR SECURITY COMPLEX.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 4203 the following new section:

``SEC. 4203A. BIENNIAL PLAN ON MODERNIZATION AND REFURBISHMENT OF THE 
              NUCLEAR SECURITY COMPLEX.

    ``(a) In General.--In each even-numbered year beginning after the 
date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2011, the Secretary of Energy, acting through the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall include in the plan for 
maintaining the nuclear weapons stockpile required by section 4203 a 
plan for the modernization and refurbishment of the nuclear security 
complex.
    ``(b) Plan Design.--
            ``(1) In general.--The plan required by subsection (a) 
        shall be designed to ensure that the nuclear security complex 
        is capable of supporting the following:
                    ``(A) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
                national security strategy of the United States as set 
                forth in the most recent national security strategy 
                report of the President under section 108 of the 
                National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 404a).
                    ``(B) The nuclear posture of the United States as 
                set forth in the most recent Nuclear Posture Review.
            ``(2) Exception.--If, at the time the plan is submitted 
        under subsection (a), a national security strategy report has 
        not been submitted to Congress under section 108 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947, the plan required by subsection 
        (a) shall be designed to ensure that the nuclear security 
        complex is capable of supporting the national defense strategy 
        recommended in the report of the most recent Quadrennial 
        Defense Review.
    ``(c) Plan Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            ``(1) A description of the modernization and refurbishment 
        measures the Secretary determines necessary to meet the 
        requirements of--
                    ``(A) the national security strategy of the United 
                States as set forth in the most recent national 
                security strategy report of the President under section 
                108 of the National Security Act of 1947 or the 
                national defense strategy recommended in the report of 
                the most recent Quadrennial Defense Review, as 
                applicable under subsection (b); and
                    ``(B) the Nuclear Posture Review.
            ``(2) A schedule for implementing the measures described in 
        paragraph (1) during the ten years following the date on which 
        the plan for maintaining the nuclear weapons stockpile required 
        by section 4203 and into which the plan required by subsection 
        (a) is incorporated is submitted to Congress under section 
        4203(c).
            ``(3) An estimate of the annual funds the Administrator 
        determines necessary to carry out the plan required by 
        subsection (a), including a discussion of the criteria, 
        evidence, and strategies on which the estimate is based.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Nuclear security complex.--The term `nuclear security 
        complex' means the physical facilities, technology, and human 
        capital of the following:
                    ``(A) The national security laboratories (as 
                defined in section 3281 of the National Nuclear 
                Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2471)).
                    ``(B) The Kansas City Plant, Kansas City, Missouri.
                    ``(C) The Nevada Test Site, Nevada.
                    ``(D) The Savannah River Site, Aiken, South 
                Carolina.
                    ``(E) The Y-12 National Security Complex, Oak 
                Ridge, Tennessee.
                    ``(F) The Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas.
            ``(2) Quadrennial defense review.--The term `Quadrennial 
        Defense Review' means the review of the defense programs and 
        policies of the United States that is carried out every four 
        years under section 118 of title 10, United States Code.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4203 the following new item:

``Sec. 4203A. Biennial plan on modernization and refurbishment of the 
                            nuclear security complex.''.

SEC. 3113. FUTURE-YEARS DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Title XLIV of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
U.S.C. 2581 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 4402 the 
following new section:

``SEC. 4402A. FUTURE-YEARS DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress 
each year, at or about the same time that the President's budget is 
submitted to Congress for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, a future-years defense environmental management 
plan that--
            ``(1) reflects the estimated expenditures and proposed 
        appropriations included in that budget for the Department of 
        Energy for environmental management; and
            ``(2) covers a period that includes the fiscal year for 
        which that budget is submitted and not less than the four 
        succeeding fiscal years.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each future-years defense environmental management 
plan required by subsection (a) shall contain the following:
            ``(1) A detailed description of the projects and activities 
        relating to defense environmental management to be carried out 
        during the period covered by the plan at the sites specified in 
        subsection (c) and with respect to the activities specified in 
        subsection (d).
            ``(2) A statement of proposed budget authority, estimated 
        expenditures, and proposed appropriations necessary to support 
        such projects and activities.
            ``(3) With respect to each site specified in subsection 
        (c), the following:
                    ``(A) A statement of each milestone included in an 
                enforceable agreement governing cleanup and waste 
                remediation for that site for each fiscal year covered 
                by the plan.
                    ``(B) For each such milestone, a statement with 
                respect to whether each such milestone will be met in 
                each such fiscal year.
                    ``(C) For any milestone that will not be met, an 
                explanation of why the milestone will not be met and 
                the date by which the milestone is expected to be met.
    ``(c) Sites Specified.--The sites specified in this subsection are 
the following:
            ``(1) The Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho.
            ``(2) The Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carlsbad, New 
        Mexico.
            ``(3) The Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina.
            ``(4) The Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, 
        Tennessee.
            ``(5) The Hanford Site, Richland, Washington.
            ``(6) Any defense closure site of the Department of Energy.
            ``(7) Any site of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration.
    ``(d) Activities Specified.--The activities specified in this 
subsection are the following:
            ``(1) Program support.
            ``(2) Program direction.
            ``(3) Safeguards and security.
            ``(4) Technology development and deployment.
            ``(5) Federal contributions to the Uranium Enrichment 
        Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund established under 
        section 1801 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 
        2297g).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4402 the following new item:

``Sec. 4402A. Future-years defense environmental management plan.''.

SEC. 3114. NOTIFICATION OF COST OVERRUNS FOR CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF 
              ENERGY PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLVII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 4713. NOTIFICATION OF COST OVERRUNS FOR CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF 
              ENERGY PROJECTS.

    ``(a) Establishment of Cost and Schedule Baselines.--
            ``(1) Stockpile life extension projects.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Administrator for Nuclear 
                Security shall establish a cost and schedule baseline 
                for each nuclear stockpile life extension project of 
                the National Nuclear Security Administration.
                    ``(B) Per unit cost.--The cost baseline developed 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include, with respect to 
                each life extension project, an estimated cost for each 
                warhead in the project.
                    ``(C) Notification to congressional defense 
                committees.--Not later than 30 days after establishing 
                a cost and schedule baseline under subparagraph (A), 
                the Administrator shall submit the cost and schedule 
                baseline to the congressional defense committees.
            ``(2) Defense-funded construction projects.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
                establish a cost and schedule baseline under the 
                project management protocols of the Department of 
                Energy for each construction project carried out by the 
                Department using funds authorized to be appropriated 
                for a fiscal year pursuant to a DOE national security 
                authorization.
                    ``(B) Notification to congressional defense 
                committees.--Not later than 30 days after establishing 
                a cost and schedule baseline under subparagraph (A), 
                the Secretary shall submit the cost and schedule 
                baseline to the congressional defense committees.
            ``(3) Defense environmental management projects.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
                cost and schedule baseline under the project management 
                protocols of the Department of Energy for each defense 
                environmental management project carried out by the 
                Department pursuant to such protocols.
                    ``(B) Notification to congressional defense 
                committees.--Not later than 30 days after establishing 
                a cost and schedule baseline under subparagraph (A) for 
                a project with a total cost in excess of $100,000,000, 
                the Secretary shall submit the cost and schedule 
                baseline to the congressional defense committees.
    ``(b) Notification of Costs or Schedule Exceeding Baseline.--The 
Administrator or the Secretary, as applicable, shall notify the 
congressional defense committees not later than 30 days after 
determining that--
            ``(1) the total cost for a project referred to in paragraph 
        (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) will exceed an amount that 
        is equal to 125 percent of the cost baseline established under 
        subsection (a) for that project;
            ``(2) the total time required to complete such a project 
        will be longer than 125 percent of the time specified in the 
        schedule baseline established under subsection (a) for that 
        project; and
            ``(3) in the case of a stockpile life extension project 
        referred to in subsection (a)(1), the cost for any warhead in 
        the project will exceed an amount that is equal to 125 percent 
        of the cost baseline established under subsection (a)(1)(B) for 
        each warhead in that project.
    ``(c) Notification of Determination With Respect to Termination or 
Continuation of Projects.--Not later than 90 days after submitting a 
notification under subsection (b) with respect to a project, the 
Administrator or the Secretary, as applicable, shall--
            ``(1) notify the congressional defense committees with 
        respect to whether the project will be terminated or continued; 
        and
            ``(2) if the project will be continued, certify to the 
        congressional defense committees that--
                    ``(A) a revised cost and schedule baseline has been 
                established for the project and, in the case of a 
                stockpile life extension project referred to in 
                subsection (a)(1), a revised estimate of the cost for 
                each warhead in the project has been made;
                    ``(B) the continuation of the project is necessary 
                to the mission of the Department of Energy and there is 
                no alternative to the project that would meet the 
                requirements of that mission; and
                    ``(C) a management structure is in place adequate 
                to manage and control the cost and schedule of the 
                project.
    ``(d) Applicability of Requirements to Revised Cost and Schedule 
Baselines.--A revised cost and schedule baseline established under 
subsection (c) shall--
            ``(1) be submitted to the congressional defense committees 
        with the certification submitted under subsection (c)(2); and
            ``(2) be subject to the notification requirements of 
        subsections (b) and (c) in the same manner and to the same 
        extent as a cost and schedule baseline established under 
        subsection (a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4712 the following new item:

``Sec. 4713. Notification of cost overruns for certain Department of 
                            Energy projects.''.

SEC. 3115. AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OR LEASE AIRCRAFT NECESSARY TO SUPPORT 
              THE MISSION OF THE NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    The Administrator for Nuclear Security may obligate and expend 
amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 3101 or amounts 
otherwise made available to the National Nuclear Security 
Administration for any fiscal year before fiscal year 2012 and 
available for obligation to purchase or lease aircraft necessary to 
support the mission of the Administration.

SEC. 3116. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTERS OF 
              EXCELLENCE IN COUNTRIES OUTSIDE OF THE FORMER SOVIET 
              UNION.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by section 3101 and 
made available by the funding table in section 4501 for defense nuclear 
nonproliferation activities may be obligated or expended to establish a 
center of excellence in a country that is not a state of the former 
Soviet Union until the date that is 15 days after the date on which the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security submits to the congressional defense 
committees a report that includes the following:
            (1) An identification of the country in which the center 
        will be located.
            (2) A description of the purpose for which the center will 
        be established.
            (3) The agreement under which the center will operate.
            (4) A funding plan for the center, including--
                    (A) the amount of funds to be provided by the 
                government of the country in which the center will be 
                located; and
                    (B) the percentage of the total cost of 
                establishing and operating the center the funds 
                described in subparagraph (A) will cover.

SEC. 3117. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF ENERGY FOR 
              APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, AND 
              TECHNICAL PERSONNEL.

    Section 4601(c)(1) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2701(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2011'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2016''.

SEC. 3118. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF ENERGY TO ENTER INTO 
              TRANSACTIONS TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN RESEARCH PROJECTS.

    Section 646(g)(10) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7256(g)(10)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2010'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2015''.

SEC. 3119. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE FOR COOPERATION WITH THE RUSSIAN 
              FEDERATION WITH RESPECT TO DEVELOPMENT OF NUCLEAR 
              MATERIALS PROTECTION, CONTROL, AND ACCOUNTING PROGRAM.

    Section 3156(b)(1) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (50 U.S.C. 2343(b)(1)) is amended by striking 
``January 1, 2013'' and inserting ``January 1, 2017''.

SEC. 3120. REPEAL OF SUNSET PROVISION FOR MODIFICATION OF MINOR 
              CONSTRUCTION THRESHOLD FOR PLANT PROJECTS.

    Section 3118 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2709) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b); and
            (3) in subsection (b), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``during fiscal year 2010''.

SEC. 3121. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE FOR TRANSFER OF PARCELS OF LAND TO BE 
              CONVEYED TO LOS ALAMOS COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, AND HELD IN 
              TRUST FOR THE PUEBLO OF SAN ILDEFONSO.

    Section 632 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (42 U.S.C. 
2391 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``November 26, 2012'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2022''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)(3)(B), by striking ``November 26, 
        2012'' and inserting ``September 30, 2022''.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 3131. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ENERGY PARKS PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy may establish a program to 
permit the establishment of energy parks on former defense nuclear 
facilities.
    (b) Objectives.--The objectives for establishing energy parks 
pursuant to subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) To provide locations to carry out a broad range of 
        projects relating to the development and deployment of energy 
        technologies and related advanced manufacturing technologies.
            (2) To provide locations for the implementation of pilot 
        programs and demonstration projects for new and developing 
        energy technologies and related advanced manufacturing 
        technologies.
            (3) To set a national example for the development and 
        deployment of energy technologies and related advanced 
        manufacturing technologies in a manner that will promote energy 
        security, energy sector employment, and energy independence.
            (4) To create a business environment that encourages 
        collaboration and interaction between the public and private 
        sectors.
    (c) Consultation.--In establishing an energy park pursuant to 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with--
            (1) the local government with jurisdiction over the land on 
        which the energy park will be located;
            (2) the local governments of adjacent areas; and
            (3) any community reuse organization recognized by the 
        Secretary at the former defense nuclear facility on which the 
        energy park will be located.
    (d) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives a report on the implementation of the program 
under subsection (a). The report shall include such recommendations for 
additional legislative actions as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to facilitate the development of energy parks on former defense nuclear 
facilities.
    (e) Defense Nuclear Facility Defined.--In this section, the term 
``defense nuclear facility'' has the meaning given the term 
``Department of Energy defense nuclear facility'' in section 318 of the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286g).

SEC. 3132. RECLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE NATIONAL 
              NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2009 Appropriations.--The matter under the heading 
``Weapons Activities'' under the heading ``National Nuclear Security 
Administration'' under the heading ``ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES'' 
under the heading ``DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'' under title III of division 
C of the Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-8; 123 Stat. 
621) is amended by striking ``the 09-D-007 LANSCE Refurbishment, PED,'' 
and inserting ``capital equipment acquisition, installation, and 
associated design funds for LANSCE,''.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2010 Appropriations.--The amount appropriated under 
the heading ``Weapons Activities'' under the heading ``NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
SECURITY ADMINISTRATION'' under the heading ``ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE 
ACTIVITIES'' under the heading ``DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'' under title III 
of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2010 (Public Law 111-85; 123 Stat. 2866) and made available for 
LANSCE Reinvestment, PED, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, 
New Mexico, shall be made available instead for capital equipment 
acquisition, installation, and associated design funds for LANSCE, Los 
Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2011, 
$33,640,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).

                 TITLE XXXIII--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 3301. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 109. Maritime Administration
    ``(a) Organization.--The Maritime Administration is an 
administration in the Department of Transportation.
    ``(b) Maritime Administrator.--The head of the Maritime 
Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the 
President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.--The 
Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation 
and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Deputy Maritime Administrator.--The Maritime Administration 
shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the 
competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties 
prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be 
Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the 
Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, 
during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
    ``(d) Duties and Powers Vested in Secretary.--All duties and powers 
of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
    ``(e) Regional Offices.--The Maritime Administration shall have 
regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port 
ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary 
shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional 
office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and 
programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
    ``(f) Interagency and Industry Relations.--The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with 
representative trade organizations throughout the United States, 
concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export 
and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of 
securing preference to vessels of the United States for the 
transportation of those commodities.
    ``(g) Detailing Officers From Armed Forces.--To assist the 
Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime 
Administration, not more than five officers of the armed forces may be 
detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details 
authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the 
Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the 
officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the armed forces, makes 
the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would 
be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be 
of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed 
by the officer during the detail.
    ``(h) Contracts, Cooperative Agreements, and Audits.--
            ``(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.--In the same 
        manner that a private corporation may make a contract within 
        the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may 
        make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States 
        Government and disburse amounts to--
                    ``(A) carry out the Secretary's duties and powers 
                under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all 
                other Maritime Administration programs; and
                    ``(B) protect, preserve, and improve collateral 
                held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
            ``(2) Audits.--The financial transactions of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller 
        General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an 
        expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the 
        business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of 
        title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall 
        report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this 
        section or subtitle V of title 46.
    ``(i) Grant Administrative Expenses.--Except as otherwise provided 
by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration 
of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 
percent.
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers 
        of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
            ``(2) Limitations.--Only those amounts specifically 
        authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the 
        Maritime Administration for--
                    ``(A) acquisition, construction, or reconstruction 
                of vessels;
                    ``(B) construction-differential subsidies incident 
                to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
                of vessels;
                    ``(C) costs of national defense features;
                    ``(D) payments of obligations incurred for 
                operating-differential subsidies;
                    ``(E) expenses necessary for research and 
                development activities, including reimbursement of the 
                Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting 
                from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
                    ``(F) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
                    ``(G) National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
                    ``(H) expenses necessary to carry out part B of 
                subtitle V of title 46; and
                    ``(I) other operations and training expenses 
                related to the development of waterborne transportation 
                systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, 
                and general administration.
            ``(3) Training vessels.--Amounts may not be appropriated 
        for the purchase or construction of training vessels for State 
        maritime academies unless the Secretary has approved a plan for 
        sharing training vessels between State maritime academies.''.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--Decisions by agency heads to commit, 
obligate, or expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of 
a dollar amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall be based on 
authorized, transparent, statutory criteria, or merit-based selection 
procedures in accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 
2374 of title 10, United States Code, and other applicable provisions 
of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 of this Act or any other provision of law, unless such 
transfer or reprogramming would move funds between appropriation 
accounts.
    (d) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in 
this division shall supercede the requirements of this section.


TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT
 



SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.
 



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     PROCUREMENT  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     FY 2011 Request              Senate Change            Senate Authorized
     Line            Item      ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Qty          Cost          Qty           Cost          Qty          Cost
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               AIRCRAFT
                PROCUREMENT,
                ARMY
               AIRCRAFT
               FIXED WING
1              JOINT CARGO                              0                                                      0
                AIRCRAFT (JCA).
2              C-12 CARGO                               0                                                      0
                AIRPLANE.
3              AERIAL COMMON                       88,483                                                 88,483
                SENSOR (ACS)
                (MIP).
4              MQ-1 UAV.......         26         459,310                                     26         459,310
5              RQ-11 (RAVEN)..        312          20,152                                    312          20,152
6              BCT UNMANNED                        44,206                                                 44,206
                AERIAL VEH
                (UAVS) INCR 1.
               ROTARY
8              HELICOPTER,             50         305,272                                     50         305,272
                LIGHT UTILITY
                (LUH).
9              AH-64 APACHE            16         390,571                      5,500          16         396,071
                BLOCK III.
9                  LESS:                          -57,890                                                -57,890
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
                    AH-64                                                     [5,500]
                    fuselage
                    manufactur
                    ing.
10                 ADVANCE                        161,150                                                161,150
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
11             UH-60 BLACKHAWK         72       1,352,786                                     72       1,352,786
                (MYP).
11                 LESS:                         -102,220                                               -102,220
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
12                 ADVANCE                        100,532                                                100,532
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
13             CH-47                   40       1,151,969                                     40       1,151,969
                HELICOPTER.
13                 LESS:                          -50,676                                                -50,676
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
14                 ADVANCE                         57,756                                                 57,756
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
15             HELICOPTER NEW                       9,383                                                  9,383
                TRAINING.
               MODIFICATION OF
                AIRCRAFT
16             C12 AIRCRAFT                             0                                                      0
                MODS.
17             MQ-1 PAYLOAD--                     100,413                                                100,413
                UAS.
18             MQ-1                                14,729                                                 14,729
                WEAPONIZATION-
                -UAS.
19             GUARDRAIL MODS                      29,899                    -24,200                       5,699
                (MIP).
                    Guardrail                                               [-24,200]
                    common
                    sensor.
20             MULTI SENSOR                        16,981                                                 16,981
                ABN RECON
                (MIP).
21             AH-64 MODS.....                    393,769                                                393,769
21                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
22                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
23             CH-47 CARGO                         66,207                                                 66,207
                HELICOPTER
                MODS (MYP).
23                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
24                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
25             UTILITY/CARGO                       13,716                                                 13,716
                AIRPLANE MODS.
26             AIRCRAFT LONG                          814                                                    814
                RANGE MODS.
27             UTILITY                             63,085                                                 63,085
                HELICOPTER
                MODS.
28             KIOWA WARRIOR..                     94,400                                                 94,400
29             AIRBORNE                           219,425                                                219,425
                AVIONICS.
30             GATM ROLLUP....                    100,862                                                100,862
31             RQ-7 UAV MODS..                    505,015                                                505,015
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
34             SPARE PARTS                          7,328                                                  7,328
                (AIR).
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT AND
                FACILITIES
               GROUND SUPPORT
                AVIONICS
35             AIRCRAFT                            24,478                                                 24,478
                SURVIVABILITY
                EQUIPMENT.
36             ASE INFRARED CM                    174,222                                                174,222
               OTHER SUPPORT
37             AVIONICS                             4,885                                                  4,885
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
38             COMMON GROUND                       76,129                                                 76,129
                EQUIPMENT.
39             AIRCREW                             52,423                      3,000                      55,423
                INTEGRATED
                SYSTEMS.
                    Air                                                       [3,000]
                    warrior
                    survival
                    vest
                    ensemble
                    reset
                    program.
40             AIR TRAFFIC                         82,844                                                 82,844
                CONTROL.
41             INDUSTRIAL                           1,567                                                  1,567
                FACILITIES.
42             LAUNCHER, 2.75                       2,892                                                  2,892
                ROCKET.
43             AIRBORNE                                 0                                                      0
                COMMUNICATIONS.
 
               TOTAL, AIRCRAFT                  5,976,867                    -15,700                   5,961,167
                PROCUREMENT,
                ARMY.
 
               MISSILE
                PROCUREMENT,
                ARMY
               OTHER MISSILES
               SURFACE-TO-AIR
                MISSILE SYSTEM
1              PATRIOT SYSTEM          78         480,247                                     78         480,247
                SUMMARY.
2              SURFACE-                           116,732                                                116,732
                LAUNCHED
                AMRAAM SYSTEM
                SUMMARY:.
2                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
3                  ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               AIR-TO-SURFACE
                MISSILE SYSTEM
4              HELLFIRE SYS           240          31,881                                    240          31,881
                SUMMARY.
               ANTI-TANK/
                ASSAULT
                MISSILE SYS
5              JAVELIN (AAWS-         715         163,929                                    715         163,929
                M) SYSTEM
                SUMMARY.
6              TOW 2 SYSTEM                        30,326                                                 30,326
                SUMMARY.
6                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
7                  ADVANCE                         48,355                                                 48,355
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
8              BCT NON LINE OF                    350,574                   -350,574                           0
                SIGHT LAUNCH
                SYSTEM--INCREM
                E.
                    Program                                                [-350,574]
                    terminatio
                    n.
9              GUIDED MLRS          2,592         291,041                                  2,592         291,041
                ROCKET (GMLRS).
10             MLRS REDUCED         2,058          15,886                                  2,058          15,886
                RANGE PRACTICE
                ROCKETS (RRPR).
11             HIGH MOBILITY           44         211,517                                     44         211,517
                ARTILLERY
                ROCKET SYSTEM
                (HIMARS.
               MODIFICATION OF
                MISSILES
               MODIFICATIONS
12             PATRIOT MODS...                     57,170                    133,600                     190,770
                    Patriot                                                 [133,600]
                    upgrades.
13             ITAS/TOW MODS..                     13,281                                                 13,281
14             MLRS MODS......                      8,217                                                  8,217
15             HIMARS                              39,371                                                 39,371
                MODIFICATIONS.
16             HELLFIRE                                10                                                     10
                MODIFICATIONS.
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
17             SPARES AND                          19,569                                                 19,569
                REPAIR PARTS.
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT &
                FACILITIES
18             AIR DEFENSE                          3,613                                                  3,613
                TARGETS.
19             ITEMS LESS THAN                      1,208                                                  1,208
                $5.0M
                (MISSILES).
20             PRODUCTION BASE                      4,510                                                  4,510
                SUPPORT.
 
               TOTAL, MISSILE                   1,887,437                   -216,974                   1,670,463
                PROCUREMENT,
                ARMY.
 
               PROCUREMENT OF
                W&TCV, ARMY
               TRACKED COMBAT
                VEHICLES
1              BRADLEY PROGRAM                          0                                                      0
2              BRADLEY                                  0                                                      0
                TRAINING
                DEVICES (MOD).
3              ABRAMS TANK                              0                                                      0
                TRAINING
                DEVICES.
4              STRYKER VEHICLE         83         299,545                                     83         299,545
5              FUTURE COMBAT                            0                                                      0
                SYSTEMS: (FCS).
5                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
6                  ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
7              FCS SPIN OUTS..                     41,871                                                 41,871
7                  LESS:                          -41,871                                                -41,871
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
8                  ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               MODIFICATION OF
                TRACKED COMBAT
                VEHICLES
9              STRYKER (MOD)..                    146,352                                                146,352
10             FIST VEHICLE                        31,083                                                 31,083
                (MOD).
11             BRADLEY PROGRAM                    215,133                                                215,133
                (MOD).
12             HOWITZER, MED                      105,277                   -105,277                           0
                SP FT 155MM
                M109A6 (MOD).
                    Program                                                [-105,277]
                    delay.
13             IMPROVED                17          69,609                                     17          69,609
                RECOVERY
                VEHICLE (M88A2
                HERCULES).
14             ARMORED                 17          77,930                                     17          77,930
                BREACHER
                VEHICLE.
15             M88 FOV MODS...                      9,157                                                  9,157
16             JOINT ASSAULT            9          44,133                                      9          44,133
                BRIDGE.
17             M1 ABRAMS TANK                     230,907                                                230,907
                (MOD).
18             ABRAMS UPGRADE          21         183,000                                     21         183,000
                PROGRAM.
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT &
                FACILITIES
19             PRODUCTION BASE                      3,145                                                  3,145
                SUPPORT (TCV-
                WTCV).
               WEAPONS AND
                OTHER COMBAT
                VEHICLES
20             HOWITZER,                2           5,575                                      2           5,575
                LIGHT, TOWED,
                105MM, M119.
21             M240 MEDIUM          1,655          28,179                                  1,655          28,179
                MACHINE GUN
                (7.62MM).
22             MACHINE GUN,         5,900          79,496                                  5,900          79,496
                CAL .50 M2
                ROLL.
23             LIGHTWEIGHT .50        350          18,941                                    350          18,941
                CALIBER
                MACHINE GUN.
24             M249 SAW                                 0                                                      0
                MACHINE GUN
                (5.56MM).
25             MK-19 GRENADE          238           4,465                                    238           4,465
                MACHINE GUN
                (40MM).
26             MORTAR SYSTEMS.        138          17,082                                    138          17,082
27             M107, CAL. 50,                         235                                                    235
                SNIPER RIFLE.
28             XM320 GRENADE        3,869          16,282                                  3,869          16,282
                LAUNCHER
                MODULE (GLM).
29             M110 SEMI-             155           5,159                                    155           5,159
                AUTOMATIC
                SNIPER SYSTEM
                (SASS).
30             M4 CARBINE.....     11,494          20,180                                 11,494          20,180
31             SHOTGUN,             3,659           7,153                                  3,659           7,153
                MODULAR
                ACCESSORY
                SYSTEM (MASS).
32             COMMON REMOTELY                          0                                                      0
                OPERATED
                WEAPONS
                STATION (CRO.
33              HANDGUN.......      5,000           3,371                                  5,000           3,371
34             HOWITZER LT WT                           0                                                      0
                155MM (T).
               MOD OF WEAPONS
                AND OTHER
                COMBAT VEH
35             MK-19 GRENADE                        4,286                                                  4,286
                MACHINE GUN
                MODS.
36             M4 CARBINE MODS                     14,044                                                 14,044
37             M2 50 CAL                                0                      6,000                       6,000
                MACHINE GUN
                MODS.
                    M2A1 quick                                                [6,000]
                    change
                    barrel
                    kits.
38             M249 SAW                             5,922                                                  5,922
                MACHINE GUN
                MODS.
39             M240 MEDIUM                         15,852                                                 15,852
                MACHINE GUN
                MODS.
40             M119                                39,810                                                 39,810
                MODIFICATIONS.
41             M16 RIFLE MODS.                      3,855                                                  3,855
42             M14 7.62 RIFLE                           0                                                      0
                MODS.
43             MODIFICATIONS                        6,083                                                  6,083
                LESS THAN
                $5.0M (WOCV-
                WTCV).
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT &
                FACILITIES
44             ITEMS LESS THAN                          0                                                      0
                $5.0M (WOCV-
                WTCV).
45             PRODUCTION BASE                      7,869                                                  7,869
                SUPPORT (WOCV-
                WTCV).
46             INDUSTRIAL                             409                                                    409
                PREPAREDNESS.
47             SMALL ARMS                           4,042                                                  4,042
                EQUIPMENT
                (SOLDIER ENH
                PROG).
48             CLOSED ACCOUNT                           0                                                      0
                ADJUSTMENTS.
 
               TOTAL,                           1,723,561                    -99,277                   1,624,284
                PROCUREMENT OF
                W&TCV, ARMY.
 
               PROCUREMENT OF
                AMMUNITION,
                ARMY
               AMMUNITION
               SMALL/MEDIUM
                CAL AMMUNITION
1              CTG, 5.56MM,                       195,406                                                195,406
                ALL TYPES.
2              CTG, 7.62MM,                        79,622                                                 79,622
                ALL TYPES.
3              CTG, HANDGUN,                        5,377                                                  5,377
                ALL TYPES.
4              CTG, .50 CAL,                      160,712                                                160,712
                ALL TYPES.
5              CTG, 20MM, ALL                           0                                                      0
                TYPES.
6              CTG, 25MM, ALL                      15,887                                                 15,887
                TYPES.
7              CTG, 30MM, ALL                      95,222                                                 95,222
                TYPES.
8              CTG, 40MM, ALL                     167,632                                                167,632
                TYPES.
               MORTAR
                AMMUNITION
9              60MM MORTAR,                        14,340                                                 14,340
                ALL TYPES.
10             81MM MORTAR,                        24,036                                                 24,036
                ALL TYPES.
11             120MM MORTAR,                       96,335                    -28,600                      67,735
                ALL TYPES.
                    APMI unit                                               [-28,600]
                    cost
                    savings.
               TANK AMMUNITION
12             CTG TANK 105MM:                      7,794                                                  7,794
                ALL TYPES.
13             CTG, TANK,                         114,798                                                114,798
                120MM, ALL
                TYPES.
               ARTILLERY
                AMMUNITION
14             CTG, ARTY,                           7,329                                                  7,329
                75MM: ALL
                TYPES.
15             CTG, ARTY,                          76,658                                                 76,658
                105MM: ALL
                TYPES.
16             CTG, ARTY,                          45,752                                                 45,752
                155MM, ALL
                TYPES.
17             PROJ 155MM                          62,114                                                 62,114
                EXTENDED RANGE
                XM982.
18             MODULAR                             29,309                                                 29,309
                ARTILLERY
                CHARGE SYSTEM
                (MACS), ALL T.
               ARTILLERY FUZES
19             ARTILLERY                           25,047                                                 25,047
                FUZES, ALL
                TYPES.
               MINES
20             MINES, ALL                             817                                                    817
                TYPES.
21             MINE, CLEARING                       8,000                                                  8,000
                CHARGE, ALL
                TYPES.
               NETWORKED
                MUNITIONS
22             SPIDER NETWORK                      53,005                                                 53,005
                MUNITIONS, ALL
                TYPES.
23             SCORPION,                           10,246                                                 10,246
                INTELLIGENT
                MUNITIONS
                SYSTEM , ALL.
               ROCKETS
24             SHOULDER                            43,873                                                 43,873
                LAUNCHED
                MUNITIONS, ALL
                TYPES.
25             ROCKET, HYDRA                      120,628                                                120,628
                70, ALL TYPES.
               OTHER
                AMMUNITION
26             DEMOLITION                          19,824                                                 19,824
                MUNITIONS, ALL
                TYPES.
27             GRENADES, ALL                       41,803                                                 41,803
                TYPES.
28             SIGNALS, ALL                        39,472                                                 39,472
                TYPES.
29             SIMULATORS, ALL                     11,389                                                 11,389
                TYPES.
               MISCELLANEOUS
30             AMMO                                17,499                                                 17,499
                COMPONENTS,
                ALL TYPES.
31             NON-LETHAL                           5,266                                                  5,266
                AMMUNITION,
                ALL TYPES.
32             CAD/PAD ALL                          5,322                                                  5,322
                TYPES.
33             ITEMS LESS THAN                      9,768                                                  9,768
                $5 MILLION.
34             AMMUNITION                          12,721                                                 12,721
                PECULIAR
                EQUIPMENT.
35             FIRST                               11,786                                                 11,786
                DESTINATION
                TRANSPORTATION
                (AMMO).
36             CLOSEOUT                               100                                                    100
                LIABILITIES.
               PRODUCTION BASE
                SUPPORT
37             PROVISION OF                       144,368                                                144,368
                INDUSTRIAL
                FACILITIES.
38             LAYAWAY OF                           9,504                                                  9,504
                INDUSTRIAL
                FACILITIES.
39             MAINTENANCE OF                       9,025                                                  9,025
                INACTIVE
                FACILITIES.
40             CONVENTIONAL                       178,367                                                178,367
                MUNITIONS
                DEMILITARIZATI
                ON, ALL.
41             ARMS INITIATIVE                      3,261                                                  3,261
 
               TOTAL,                           1,979,414                    -28,600                   1,950,814
                PROCUREMENT OF
                AMMUNITION,
                ARMY.
 
               OTHER
                PROCUREMENT,
                ARMY
               TACTICAL AND
                SUPPORT
                VEHICLES
               TACTICAL
                VEHICLES
1              TACTICAL             2,359          25,560                      5,000       2,359          30,560
                TRAILERS/DOLLY
                SETS.
                    Efficiency                                                [5,000]
                    and safety
                    mods to
                    Heavy
                    Expanded
                    Mobility
                    Ammunition
                    Trailer.
2              SEMITRAILERS,          391          38,713                                    391          38,713
                FLATBED:.
3              SEMITRAILERS,                            0                                                      0
                TANKERS.
4              HI MOB MULTI-                            0                                                      0
                PURP WHLD VEH
                (HMMWV).
5              FAMILY OF            2,960         918,195                                  2,960         918,195
                MEDIUM
                TACTICAL VEH
                (FMTV).
6              FIRETRUCKS &                        21,317                                                 21,317
                ASSOCIATED
                FIREFIGHTING
                EQUIPMEN.
7              FAMILY OF HEAVY                    549,741                                                549,741
                TACTICAL
                VEHICLES
                (FHTV).
8              PLS ESP........                    100,108                                                100,108
9              ARMORED                 94         114,478                                     94         114,478
                SECURITY
                VEHICLES (ASV).
10             MINE PROTECTION                    230,978                                                230,978
                VEHICLE FAMILY.
11             FAMILY OF MINE                           0                                                      0
                RESISTANT
                AMBUSH PROTEC
                (MRAP).
12             TRUCK, TRACTOR,         55          37,519                                     55          37,519
                LINE HAUL,
                M915/M916.
13             HVY EXPANDED           708         173,565                                    708         173,565
                MOBILE
                TACTICAL TRUCK
                EXT SERV P.
14             HMMWV                                    0                                                      0
                RECAPITALIZATI
                ON PROGRAM.
15             MODIFICATION OF                    349,256                                                349,256
                IN SVC EQUIP.
16             ITEMS LESS THAN                          0                                                      0
                $5.0M (TAC
                VEH).
17             TOWING DEVICE-                         234                                                    234
                FIFTH WHEEL.
18             AMC CRITICAL                           746                                                    746
                ITEMS, OPA1.
               NON-TACTICAL
                VEHICLES
19             HEAVY ARMORED            4           1,875                                      4           1,875
                SEDAN.
20             PASSENGER                            3,323                                                  3,323
                CARRYING
                VEHICLES.
21             NONTACTICAL                         19,586                                                 19,586
                VEHICLES,
                OTHER.
               COMMUNICATIONS
                AND
                ELECTRONICS
                EQUIPMENT
               COMM--JOINT
                COMMUNICATIONS
22             VEHICLE MTD                              0                                                      0
                MINE DECTE.
23             JOINT COMBAT                        11,411                                                 11,411
                IDENTIFICATION
                MARKING SYSTEM.
24             WIN-T--GROUND                      421,798                                                421,798
                FORCES
                TACTICAL
                NETWORK.
25             JCSE EQUIPMENT                       4,690                                                  4,690
                (USREDCOM).
               COMM--SATELLITE
                COMMUNICATIONS
26             DEFENSE                            115,744                                                115,744
                ENTERPRISE
                WIDEBAND
                SATCOM SYSTEMS
                (S.
27             SHF TERM.......                     14,198                                                 14,198
28             SAT TERM, EMUT                         662                                                    662
                (SPACE).
29             NAVSTAR GLOBAL                      32,193                     51,200                      83,393
                POSITIONING
                SYSTEM (SPACE).
                    Procuremen                                               [51,200]
                    t of
                    additional
                    systems.
30             SMART-T (SPACE)                     10,285                                                 10,285
31             SCAMP (SPACE)..                        930                                                    930
32             GLOBAL BRDCST                        4,586                                                  4,586
                SVC--GBS.
33             MOD OF IN-SVC                        1,506                                                  1,506
                EQUIP (TAC
                SAT).
               COMM--COMBAT
                SUPPORT COMM
34             MOD-IN-SERVICE                         938                                                    938
                PROFILER.
               COMM--C3 SYSTEM
35             ARMY GLOBAL CMD                     20,387                                                 20,387
                & CONTROL SYS
                (AGCCS).
               COMM--COMBAT
                COMMUNICATIONS
36             ARMY DATA                              700                                                    700
                DISTRIBUTION
                SYSTEM (DATA
                RADIO).
37             JOINT TACTICAL                     209,568                                                209,568
                RADIO SYSTEM.
38             RADIO TERMINAL                       5,796                                                  5,796
                SET, MIDS
                LVT(2).
39             SINCGARS FAMILY                     14,504                                                 14,504
40             AMC CRITICAL                         3,860                                                  3,860
                ITEMS--OPA2.
41             MULTI-PURPOSE                        9,501                                                  9,501
                INFORMATIONS
                OPERATIONS
                SYSEMS.
42             COMMS-ELEC                           5,965                                                  5,965
                EQUIP FIELDING.
43             SPIDER APLA                         26,358                                                 26,358
                REMOTE CONTROL
                UNIT.
44             IMS REMOTE                           6,603                                                  6,603
                CONTROL UNIT.
45             SOLDIER                              5,125                                                  5,125
                ENHANCEMENT
                PROGRAM COMM/
                ELECTRONICS.
46             COMBAT SURVIVOR                      2,397                                                  2,397
                EVADER LOCATOR
                (CSEL).
47             RADIO, IMPROVED                      9,983                                                  9,983
                HF (COTS)
                FAMILY.
48             MEDICAL COMM                        23,606                                                 23,606
                FOR CBT
                CASUALTY CARE
                (MC4).
               COMM--INTELLIGE
                NCE COMM
49             CI AUTOMATION                        1,465                                                  1,465
                ARCHITECTURE.
               INFORMATION
                SECURITY
50             TSEC--ARMY KEY                      25,959                                                 25,959
                MGT SYS (AKMS).
51             INFORMATION                         63,340                                                 63,340
                SYSTEM
                SECURITY
                PROGRAM-ISSP.
               COMM--LONG HAUL
                COMMUNICATIONS
52             TERRESTRIAL                            137                                                    137
                TRANSMISSION.
53             BASE SUPPORT                        28,406                                                 28,406
                COMMUNICATIONS.
54             WW TECH CON IMP                     11,566                                                 11,566
                PROG (WWTCIP).
               COMM--BASE
                COMMUNICATIONS
55             INFORMATION                        201,081                     55,000                     256,081
                SYSTEMS.
                    Tactical                                                 [55,000]
                    local area
                    network.
56             DEFENSE MESSAGE                      6,264                                                  6,264
                SYSTEM (DMS).
57             INSTALLATION                       178,242                                                178,242
                INFO
                INFRASTRUCTURE
                MOD PROGRAM(.
58             PENTAGON                            10,427                                                 10,427
                INFORMATION
                MGT AND
                TELECOM.
               ELECT EQUIP--
                NAT INTEL PROG
                (NIP)
               ELECT EQUIP--
                TACT INT REL
                ACT (TIARA)
63             ALL SOURCE                               0                                                      0
                ANALYSIS SYS
                (ASAS).
64             JTT/CIBS-M.....                      3,321                                                  3,321
65             PROPHET GROUND.                     71,517                                                 71,517
66             TACTICAL                                 0                                                      0
                UNMANNED
                AERIAL SYS
                (TUAS).
67             SMALL UNMANNED                           0                                                      0
                AERIAL SYSTEM
                (SUAS).
68             DIGITAL                                441                                                    441
                TOPOGRAPHIC
                SPT SYS (DTSS).
69             DRUG                                     0                                                      0
                INTERDICTION
                PROGRAM (DIP)
                (TIARA).
70             DCGS-A (MIP)...                    137,424                                                137,424
71             JOINT TACTICAL                       9,279                                                  9,279
                GROUND STATION
                (JTAGS).
72             TROJAN (MIP)...                     28,345                                                 28,345
73             MOD OF IN-SVC                        7,602                                                  7,602
                EQUIP (INTEL
                SPT) (MIP).
74             CI HUMINT AUTO                       7,416                                                  7,416
                REPRTING AND
                COLL(CHARCS)
                (MIP.
75             ITEMS LESS THAN                     18,721                                                 18,721
                $5.0M (MIP).
               ELECT EQUIP--
                ELECTRONIC
                WARFARE (EW)
76             LIGHTWEIGHT                         32,980                     47,100                      80,080
                COUNTER MORTAR
                RADAR.
                    Procuremen                                               [47,100]
                    t of
                    additional
                    systems.
77             WARLOCK........                     24,127                                                 24,127
78             BCT UNATTENDED                      29,718                    -29,718                           0
                GROUND SENSOR.
                    Program                                                 [-29,718]
                    reduction.
79             COUNTERINTELLIG                      1,394                                                  1,394
                ENCE/SECURITY
                COUNTERMEASURE
                S.
80             CI                                   1,263                                                  1,263
                MODERNIZATION.
               ELECT EQUIP--
                TACTICAL SURV.
                (TAC SURV)
81             FAAD GBS.......                     91,467                                                 91,467
82             SENTINEL MODS..                     30,976                                                 30,976
83             SENSE THROUGH                       24,939                                                 24,939
                THE WALL
                (STTW).
84             NIGHT VISION                        70,528                                                 70,528
                DEVICES.
85             LONG RANGE                         255,641                                                255,641
                ADVANCED SCOUT
                SURVEILLANCE
                SYSTEM.
86             NIGHT VISION,                      248,899                                                248,899
                THERMAL WPN
                SIGHT.
87             SMALL TACTICAL                       8,520                                                  8,520
                OPTICAL RIFLE
                MOUNTED MLRF.
88             RADIATION                                0                                                      0
                MONITORING
                SYSTEMS.
89             COUNTER-ROCKET,                      2,088                                                  2,088
                ARTILLERY &
                MORTAR (C-RAM).
90             BASE                                     0                                                      0
                EXPEDITIONARY
                TARGETING AND
                SURV SYS.
91             ARTILLERY                            6,042                                                  6,042
                ACCURACY EQUIP.
92             MOD OF IN-SVC                            0                                                      0
                EQUIP (MMS).
93             ENHANCED                                 0                                                      0
                PORTABLE
                INDUCTIVE
                ARTILLERY FUZE
                SE.
94             PROFILER.......                      4,408                                                  4,408
95             MOD OF IN-SVC                        2,843                                                  2,843
                EQUIP
                (FIREFINDER
                RADARS).
96             FORCE XXI                           39,786                                                 39,786
                BATTLE CMD
                BRIGADE &
                BELOW (FBCB2).
97             JOINT BATTLE                           147                                                    147
                COMMAND--PLATF
                ORM (JBC-P).
98             LIGHTWEIGHT                         65,970                                                 65,970
                LASER
                DESIGNATOR/
                RANGEFINDER
                (LLD.
99             COMPUTER                               815                                                    815
                BALLISTICS:
                LHMBC XM32.
100            MORTAR FIRE                         16,475                                                 16,475
                CONTROL SYSTEM.
101            COUNTERFIRE                        275,867                                                275,867
                RADARS.
102            ENHANCED SENSOR                      2,062                                                  2,062
                & MONITORING
                SYSTEM.
               ELECT EQUIP--
                TACTICAL C2
                SYSTEMS
103            TACTICAL                            53,768                                                 53,768
                OPERATIONS
                CENTERS.
104            FIRE SUPPORT C2                     49,077                     16,200                      65,277
                FAMILY.
                    Forward                                                  [16,200]
                    entry
                    devices.
105            BATTLE COMMAND                      25,866                                                 25,866
                SUSTAINMENT
                SUPPORT SYSTEM
                (BC.
106            FAAD C2........                     42,511                                                 42,511
107            AIR & MSL                           57,038                                                 57,038
                DEFENSE
                PLANNING &
                CONTROL SYS
                (AMD.
108            KNIGHT FAMILY..                    120,723                                                120,723
109            LIFE CYCLE                           1,710                                                  1,710
                SOFTWARE
                SUPPORT (LCSS).
110            AUTOMATIC                           10,858                                                 10,858
                IDENTIFICATION
                TECHNOLOGY.
111            TC AIMS II.....                     10,457                                                 10,457
112            JOINT NETWORK                            0                                                      0
                MANAGEMENT
                SYSTEM (JNMS).
113            TACTICAL                             1,594                                                  1,594
                INTERNET
                MANAGER.
114            NETWORK                             18,492                                                 18,492
                MANAGEMENT
                INITIALIZATION
                AND SERVICE.
115            MANEUVER                            96,162                                                 96,162
                CONTROL SYSTEM
                (MCS).
116            SINGLE ARMY                         99,819                                                 99,819
                LOGISTICS
                ENTERPRISE
                (SALE).
117            RECONNAISSANCE                      15,466                                                 15,466
                AND SURVEYING
                INSTRUMENT SET.
118            MOUNTED BATTLE                           0                                                      0
                COMMAND ON THE
                MOVE (MBCOTM).
               ELECT EQUIP--
                AUTOMATION
119            GENERAL FUND                        97,858                                                 97,858
                ENTERPRISE
                BUSINESS
                SYSTEM.
120            ARMY TRAINING                       36,158                                                 36,158
                MODERNIZATION.
121            AUTOMATED DATA                     203,864                                                203,864
                PROCESSING
                EQUIP.
122            CSS                                 39,811                                                 39,811
                COMMUNICATIONS.
123            RESERVE                             39,360                                                 39,360
                COMPONENT
                AUTOMATION SYS
                (RCAS).
               ELECT EQUIP--
                AUDIO VISUAL
                SYS (A/V)
124            ITEMS LESS THAN                        663                                                    663
                $5.0M (A/V).
125            ITEMS LESS THAN                      6,467                                                  6,467
                $5M (SURVEYING
                EQUIPMENT).
               ELECT EQUIP--
                MODS TACTICAL
                SYS/EQ
126            WEAPONIZATION                            0                                                      0
                OF UNMANNED
                AERIAL SYSTEM
                (UAS).
               ELECT EQUIP--
                SUPPORT
127            ITEMS UNDER $5M                          0                                                      0
                (SSE).
128            PRODUCTION BASE                        542                                                    542
                SUPPORT (C-E).
129            BCT NETWORK....                    176,543                                                176,543
999            CLASSIFIED                           2,560                                                  2,560
                PROGRAMS.
               OTHER SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
               CHEMICAL
                DEFENSIVE
                EQUIPMENT
130            PROTECTIVE                           2,489                                                  2,489
                SYSTEMS.
131            FAMILY OF NON-                       9,305                                                  9,305
                LETHAL
                EQUIPMENT
                (FNLE).
132            CBRN SOLDIER                       180,351                                                180,351
                PROTECTION.
133            SMOKE &                                831                                                    831
                OBSCURANT
                FAMILY: SOF
                (NON AAO ITEM).
               BRIDGING
                EQUIPMENT
134            TACTICAL                            62,817                     15,000                      77,817
                BRIDGING.
                    Line of                                                  [15,000]
                    communicat
                    ion bridge.
135            TACTICAL                           105,837                                                105,837
                BRIDGE, FLOAT-
                RIBBON.
               ENGINEER (NON-
                CONSTRUCTION)
                EQUIPMENT
136            HANDHELD                            43,871                                                 43,871
                STANDOFF
                MINEFIELD
                DETECTION SYS-
                HST.
137            GRND STANDOFF                       35,002                      7,000                      42,002
                MINE DETECTION
                SYSTEM
                (GSTAMIDS.
                    Fido                                                      [7,000]
                    explosives
                    detection
                    system.
138            EXPLOSIVE                           54,093                                                 54,093
                ORDNANCE
                DISPOSAL EQPMT
                (EOD EQPMT).
139            < $5M,                               3,655                                                  3,655
                COUNTERMINE
                EQUIPMENT.
140            AERIAL                                   0                                                      0
                DETECTION.
               COMBAT SERVICE
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
141            HEATERS AND                         20,610                                                 20,610
                ECU'S.
142            LAUNDRIES,                               0                                                      0
                SHOWERS AND
                LATRINES.
143            SOLDIER                              5,416                                                  5,416
                ENHANCEMENT.
144            LIGHTWEIGHT                              0                                                      0
                MAINTENANCE
                ENCLOSURE
                (LME).
145            LAND WARRIOR...                          0                                                      0
146            PERSONNEL                            7,813                                                  7,813
                RECOVERY
                SUPPORT SYSTEM
                (PRSS).
147            GROUND SOLDIER                     110,524                    -28,800                      81,724
                SYSTEM.
                    Program                                                 [-28,800]
                    reduction-
                    -early to
                    need.
148            MOUNTED SOLDIER                     38,872                                                 38,872
                SYSTEM.
149            FORCE PROVIDER.                     41,539                                                 41,539
150            FIELD FEEDING                       23,826                                                 23,826
                EQUIPMENT.
151            CARGO AERIAL                        69,496                                                 69,496
                DEL &
                PERSONNEL
                PARACHUTE
                SYSTEM.
152            MOBILE                              26,532                                                 26,532
                INTEGRATED
                REMAINS
                COLLECTION
                SYSTEM:.
153            ITEMS LESS THAN                     31,420                                                 31,420
                $5M (ENG SPT).
               PETROLEUM
                EQUIPMENT
154            DISTRIBUTION                       175,069                                                175,069
                SYSTEMS,
                PETROLEUM &
                WATER.
               WATER EQUIPMENT
155            WATER                                3,597                                                  3,597
                PURIFICATION
                SYSTEMS.
               MEDICAL
                EQUIPMENT
156            COMBAT SUPPORT                      30,365                                                 30,365
                MEDICAL.
               MAINTENANCE
                EQUIPMENT
157            MOBILE                             159,285                                                159,285
                MAINTENANCE
                EQUIPMENT
                SYSTEMS.
158            ITEMS LESS THAN                      3,702                                                  3,702
                $5.0M (MAINT
                EQ).
               CONSTRUCTION
                EQUIPMENT
159            GRADER, ROAD                        48,379                                                 48,379
                MTZD, HVY, 6X4
                (CCE).
160            SKID STEER                          17,498                                                 17,498
                LOADER (SSL)
                FAMILY OF
                SYSTEM.
161            SCRAPERS,                           12,452                                                 12,452
                EARTHMOVING.
162            DISTR, WATER,                            0                                                      0
                SP MIN 2500G
                SEC/NON-SEC.
163            MISSION                             62,111                                                 62,111
                MODULES--ENGIN
                EERING.
164            LOADERS........                      7,205                                                  7,205
165            HYDRAULIC                            8,458                                                  8,458
                EXCAVATOR.
166            TRACTOR, FULL                       64,032                                                 64,032
                TRACKED.
167            PLANT, ASPHALT                      10,783                                                 10,783
                MIXING.
168            HIGH MOBILITY                       64,959                                                 64,959
                ENGINEER
                EXCAVATOR
                (HMEE) FOS.
169            CONST EQUIP ESP                     11,063                                                 11,063
170            ITEMS LESS THAN                     20,565                                                 20,565
                $5.0M (CONST
                EQUIP).
               RAIL FLOAT
                CONTAINERIZATI
                ON EQUIPMENT
171            JOINT HIGH                         202,764                                                202,764
                SPEED VESSEL
                (JHSV).
172            HARBORMASTER                        37,683                                                 37,683
                COMMAND AND
                CONTROL CENTER
                (HCCC.
173            ITEMS LESS THAN                      8,052                                                  8,052
                $5.0M (FLOAT/
                RAIL).
               GENERATORS
174            GENERATORS AND                     113,573                                                113,573
                ASSOCIATED
                EQUIP.
               MATERIAL
                HANDLING
                EQUIPMENT
175            ROUGH TERRAIN                       29,460                                                 29,460
                CONTAINER
                HANDLER (RTCH).
176            FAMILY OF                           12,936                                                 12,936
                FORKLIFTS.
177            ALL TERRAIN                         17,352                                                 17,352
                LIFTING ARMY
                SYSTEM.
               TRAINING
                EQUIPMENT
178            COMBAT TRAINING                     23,400                                                 23,400
                CENTERS
                SUPPORT.
179            TRAINING                           297,200                     26,200                     323,400
                DEVICES,
                NONSYSTEM.
                    Operator                                                  [5,000]
                    driving
                    simulator.
                    Immersive                                                 [6,000]
                    group
                    simulation
                    virtual
                    training
                    system.
                    Combat                                                    [6,000]
                    skills
                    marksmansh
                    ip trainer.
                    Mine                                                      [6,000]
                    resistant
                    ambush
                    protected
                    vehicle
                    virtual
                    trainer.
                    Combined                                                  [3,200]
                    arms
                    collective
                    training
                    facility.
180            CLOSE COMBAT                        64,912                                                 64,912
                TACTICAL
                TRAINER.
181            AVIATION                            26,120                                                 26,120
                COMBINED ARMS
                TACTICAL
                TRAINER (AVCA.
182            GAMING                               4,964                                                  4,964
                TECHNOLOGY IN
                SUPPORT OF
                ARMY TRAINING.
               TEST MEASURE
                AND DIG
                EQUIPMENT
                (TMD)
183            CALIBRATION                         38,778                                                 38,778
                SETS EQUIPMENT.
184            INTEGRATED                         104,472                                                104,472
                FAMILY OF TEST
                EQUIPMENT
                (IFTE).
185            TEST EQUIPMENT                      19,166                                                 19,166
                MODERNIZATION
                (TEMOD).
               OTHER SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
186            RAPID EQUIPPING                     42,229                                                 42,229
                SOLDIER
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
187            PHYSICAL                            56,195                                                 56,195
                SECURITY
                SYSTEMS (OPA3).
188            BASE LEVEL                           1,873                                                  1,873
                COM'L
                EQUIPMENT.
189            MODIFICATION OF                    103,046                                                103,046
                IN-SVC
                EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                3).
190            PRODUCTION BASE                      2,233                                                  2,233
                SUPPORT (OTH).
191            BUILDING, PRE-                           0                                                      0
                FAB,
                RELOCATABLE.
192            SPECIAL                             44,483                                                 44,483
                EQUIPMENT FOR
                USER TESTING.
193            AMC CRITICAL                        13,104                                                 13,104
                ITEMS OPA3.
194            MA8975.........                      3,894                                                  3,894
195            BCT UNMANNED                        20,046                                                 20,046
                GROUND VEHICLE.
196            BCT TRAINING/                       61,581                                                 61,581
                LOGISTICS/
                MANAGEMENT.
               SPARE AND
                REPAIR PARTS
               OPA2
197            INITIAL SPARES--                    38,707                                                 38,707
                C&E.
 
               TOTAL, OTHER                     9,765,808                    164,182                   9,929,990
                PROCUREMENT,
                ARMY.
 
               JOINT IMPR
                EXPLOSIVE DEV
                DEFEAT FUND
               NETWORK ATTACK
1              ATTACK THE                               0                                                      0
                NETWORK.
               JIEDDO DEVICE
                DEFEAT
2              DEFEAT THE                               0                                                      0
                DEVICE.
               FORCE TRAINING
3              TRAIN THE FORCE                          0                                                      0
               STAFF AND
                INFRASTRUCTURE
4              OPERATIONS.....                    215,868                   -215,868                           0
                    Transfer                                               [-215,868]
                    to OCO
                    account.
 
               TOTAL, JOINT                       215,868                   -215,868                           0
                IMPR EXPLOSIVE
                DEV DEFEAT
                FUND.
 
               AIRCRAFT
                PROCUREMENT,
                NAVY
               COMBAT AIRCRAFT
1              EA-18G.........         12       1,049,297                    -45,891          12       1,003,406
1                  LESS:                          -20,496                                                -20,496
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
                    Savings                                                 [-45,891]
                    from
                    multiyear
                    procuremen
                    t.
2                  ADVANCE                         55,081                                                 55,081
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
3              F/A-18E/F               22       1,838,058          6         240,439          28       2,078,497
                (FIGHTER)
                HORNET.
3                  LESS:                          -53,164                                                -53,164
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
                    Buy 6                                        [6]        [325,000]
                    additional
                    aircaft.
                    Savings                                                 [-84,561]
                    from
                    multiyear
                    procuremen
                    t.
4                  ADVANCE                          2,295                                                  2,295
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
5              JOINT STRIKE             7       2,146,611                                      7       2,146,611
                FIGHTER CV.
5                  LESS:                         -479,518                                               -479,518
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
6                  ADVANCE                        219,895                                                219,895
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
7              JSF STOVL......         13       2,289,816                                     13       2,289,816
8                  ADVANCE                        286,326                                                286,326
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
9              V-22 (MEDIUM            30       2,267,628                                     30       2,267,628
                LIFT).
9                  LESS:                         -146,592                                               -146,592
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
10                 ADVANCE                         81,875                                                 81,875
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
11             UH-1Y/AH-1Z....         28         789,103                                     28         789,103
11                 LESS:                          -50,394                                                -50,394
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
12                 ADVANCE                         69,360                                                 69,360
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
13             MH-60S (MYP)...         18         564,755                                     18         564,755
13                 LESS:                          -86,164                                                -86,164
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
14                 ADVANCE                         70,080                          0                      70,080
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
                    Economic                                                 [-3,700]
                    order
                    quantity
                    funding
                    for MYP.
                    Advance                                                   [3,700]
                    procuremen
                    t funding.
15             MH-60R.........         24       1,031,797                                     24       1,031,797
15                 LESS:                         -133,864                                               -133,864
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
16                 ADVANCE                        162,006                          0                     162,006
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
                    Economic                                                [-32,300]
                    order
                    quantity
                    funding
                    for MYP.
                    Advance                                                  [32,300]
                    procuremen
                    t funding.
17             P-8A POSEIDON..          7       1,970,336                                      7       1,970,336
17                 LESS:                         -145,899                                               -145,899
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
18                 ADVANCE                        166,153                                                166,153
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
19             E-2D ADV                 4         913,816                                      4         913,816
                HAWKEYE.
19                 LESS:                          -94,632                                                -94,632
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
20                 ADVANCE                        118,619                                                118,619
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               AIRLIFT
                AIRCRAFT
21             C-40A..........                          0                                                      0
               TRAINER
                AIRCRAFT
22             JPATS..........         38         266,065                                     38         266,065
               OTHER AIRCRAFT
23             KC-130J........                     33,832                                                 33,832
23                 LESS:                          -33,832                                                -33,832
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
24                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
25             RQ-7 UAV.......                          0                                                      0
26             MQ-8 UAV.......          3          47,484                                      3          47,484
27             STUASL0 UAV....         18          23,912                                     18          23,912
28             OTHER SUPPORT                            0                                                      0
                AIRCRAFT.
               MODIFICATION OF
                AIRCRAFT
29             EA-6 SERIES....                     14,891                                                 14,891
30             AEA SYSTEMS....                     33,772                                                 33,772
31             AV-8 SERIES....                     19,386                                                 19,386
32             F-18 SERIES....                    492,821                                                492,821
33             H-46 SERIES....                     17,685                                                 17,685
34             AH-1W SERIES...                     11,011                                                 11,011
35             H-53 SERIES....                     25,871                                                 25,871
36             SH-60 SERIES...                     67,779                                                 67,779
37             H-1 SERIES.....                      3,060                                                  3,060
38             EP-3 SERIES....                     90,323                                                 90,323
39             P-3 SERIES.....                    221,982                                                221,982
40             E-2 SERIES.....                     47,046                                                 47,046
41             TRAINER A/C                         23,999                                                 23,999
                SERIES.
42             C-2A...........                     16,020                                                 16,020
43             C-130 SERIES...                     17,839                                                 17,839
44             FEWSG..........                     21,928                                                 21,928
45             CARGO/TRANSPORT                     16,092                                                 16,092
                A/C SERIES.
46             E-6 SERIES.....                    149,164                                                149,164
47             EXECUTIVE                           43,443                                                 43,443
                HELICOPTERS
                SERIES.
48             SPECIAL PROJECT                     14,679                                                 14,679
                AIRCRAFT.
49             T-45 SERIES....                     61,515                                                 61,515
50             POWER PLANT                         19,948                                                 19,948
                CHANGES.
51             JPATS SERIES...                      1,831                                                  1,831
52             AVIATION LIFE                        8,084                                                  8,084
                SUPPORT MODS.
53             COMMON ECM                          21,947                      5,000                      26,947
                EQUIPMENT.
                    AN/AAR-47                                                 [5,000]
                    computer
                    processor
                    upgrade.
54             COMMON AVIONICS                    101,120                                                101,120
                CHANGES.
55             COMMON                                   0                                                      0
                DEFENSIVE
                WEAPON SYSTEM.
56             ID SYSTEMS.....                     20,397                                                 20,397
57             RQ-7 SERIES....                     18,121                                                 18,121
58             V-22 (TILT/                         21,985                                                 21,985
                ROTOR ACFT)
                OSPREY.
               AIRCRAFT SPARES
                AND REPAIR
                PARTS
59             SPARES AND                       1,244,673                    423,000                   1,667,673
                REPAIR PARTS.
                    Unfunded                                                [423,000]
                    requiremen
                    t for
                    spares.
               AIRCRAFT
                SUPPORT EQUIP
                & FACILITIES
60             COMMON GROUND                      322,063                                                322,063
                EQUIPMENT.
61             AIRCRAFT                            17,998                                                 17,998
                INDUSTRIAL
                FACILITIES.
62             WAR CONSUMABLES                     25,248                                                 25,248
63             OTHER                                7,579                                                  7,579
                PRODUCTION
                CHARGES.
64             SPECIAL SUPPORT                     45,916                                                 45,916
                EQUIPMENT.
65             FIRST                                1,752                                                  1,752
                DESTINATION
                TRANSPORTATION.
66             CANCELLED                                0                                                      0
                ACCOUNT
                ADJUSTMENTS.
 
               TOTAL, AIRCRAFT                 18,508,613                    622,548                  19,131,161
                PROCUREMENT,
                NAVY.
 
               WEAPONS
                PROCUREMENT,
                NAVY
               BALLISTIC
                MISSILES
               MODIFICATION OF
                MISSILES
1              TRIDENT II MODS         24       1,106,911                                     24       1,106,911
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT &
                FACILITIES
2              MISSILE                              3,446                                                  3,446
                INDUSTRIAL
                FACILITIES.
               OTHER MISSILES
               STRATEGIC
                MISSILES
3              TOMAHAWK.......        196         300,178                                    196         300,178
               TACTICAL
                MISSILES
4              AMRAAM.........        101         155,553                                    101         155,553
5              SIDEWINDER.....        146          52,293                                    146          52,293
6              JSOW...........        333         131,141                                    333         131,141
7              STANDARD                67         295,922                                     67         295,922
                MISSILE.
8              RAM............         90          74,976                                     90          74,976
9              HELLFIRE.......        575          43,495                                    575          43,495
10             AERIAL TARGETS.                     43,988                                                 43,988
11             OTHER MISSILE                        3,981                                                  3,981
                SUPPORT.
               MODIFICATION OF
                MISSILES
12             ESSM...........         33          48,152                                     33          48,152
13             HARM MODS......                     53,543                                                 53,543
14             STANDARD                            61,896                                                 61,896
                MISSILES MODS.
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT &
                FACILITIES
15             WEAPONS                              3,281                     30,000                      33,281
                INDUSTRIAL
                FACILITIES.
                    Accelerate                                               [30,000]
                    facility
                    restoratio
                    n program.
16             FLEET SATELLITE          1         534,492                                      1         534,492
                COMM FOLLOW-ON.
16                 LESS:                          -28,758                                                -28,758
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
17                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               ORDNANCE
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
18             ORDNANCE                            52,152                                                 52,152
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
               TORPEDOES AND
                RELATED
                EQUIPMENT
19             ASW TARGETS....                     10,123                                                 10,123
               MOD OF
                TORPEDOES AND
                RELATED EQUIP
20             MK-54 TORPEDO                       42,144                                                 42,144
                MODS.
21             MK-48 TORPEDO                       43,559                                                 43,559
                ADCAP MODS.
22             QUICKSTRIKE                          6,090                                                  6,090
                MINE.
               SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
23             TORPEDO SUPPORT                     43,766                                                 43,766
                EQUIPMENT.
24             ASW RANGE                            9,557                                                  9,557
                SUPPORT.
               DESTINATION
                TRANSPORTATION
25             FIRST                                3,494                                                  3,494
                DESTINATION
                TRANSPORTATION.
               OTHER WEAPONS
               GUNS AND GUN
                MOUNTS
26             SMALL ARMS AND                      14,316                                                 14,316
                WEAPONS.
               MODIFICATION OF
                GUNS AND GUN
                MOUNTS
27             CIWS MODS......                     41,408                                                 41,408
28             COAST GUARD                         20,657                                                 20,657
                WEAPONS.
29             GUN MOUNT MODS.                     43,991                     11,000                      54,991
                    Mk 110 gun                                                [6,000]
                    weapon
                    system
                    depot
                    support.
                    Mk 38 Mod                                                 [5,000]
                    2 gun
                    weapon
                    system
                    depot
                    support.
30             LCS MODULE                           9,808                                                  9,808
                WEAPONS.
31             CRUISER                             52,426                                                 52,426
                MODERNIZATION
                WEAPONS.
32             AIRBORNE MINE                       23,007                                                 23,007
                NEUTRALIZATION
                SYSTEMS.
               OTHER
33             MARINE CORPS                             0                                                      0
                TACTIAL
                UNMANNED
                AERIAL SYSTEM.
34             CANCELLED                                0                                                      0
                ACCOUNT
                ADJUSTMENTS.
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
35             SPARES AND                          58,806                                                 58,806
                REPAIR PARTS.
 
               TOTAL, WEAPONS                   3,359,794                     41,000                   3,400,794
                PROCUREMENT,
                NAVY.
 
               PROCUREMENT OF
                AMMO, NAVY &
                MC
               NAVY AMMUNITION
1              GENERAL PURPOSE                     80,028                                                 80,028
                BOMBS.
2              JDAM...........                          0                                                      0
3              AIRBORNE                            38,721                                                 38,721
                ROCKETS, ALL
                TYPES.
4              MACHINE GUN                         21,003                                                 21,003
                AMMUNITION.
5              PRACTICE BOMBS.                     33,666                                                 33,666
6              CARTRIDGES &                        53,667                                                 53,667
                CART ACTUATED
                DEVICES.
7              AIR EXPENDABLE                      59,626                                                 59,626
                COUNTERMEASURE
                S.
8              JATOS..........                      2,869                                                  2,869
9              5 INCH/54 GUN                       34,492                                                 34,492
                AMMUNITION.
10             INTERMEDIATE                        37,234                                                 37,234
                CALIBER GUN
                AMMUNITION.
11             OTHER SHIP GUN                      36,275                                                 36,275
                AMMUNITION.
12             SMALL ARMS &                        46,192                                                 46,192
                LANDING PARTY
                AMMO.
13             PYROTECHNIC AND                     11,310                                                 11,310
                DEMOLITION.
14             AMMUNITION LESS                      4,105                                                  4,105
                THAN $5
                MILLION.
               MARINE CORPS
                AMMUNITION
15             SMALL ARMS                          64,839                                                 64,839
                AMMUNITION.
16             LINEAR CHARGES,                     15,329                                                 15,329
                ALL TYPES.
17             40 MM, ALL                          62,835                                                 62,835
                TYPES.
18             60MM, ALL TYPES                     17,877                                                 17,877
19             81MM, ALL TYPES                     41,053                                                 41,053
20             120MM, ALL                           6,458                                                  6,458
                TYPES.
21             CTG 25MM, ALL                        2,937                                                  2,937
                TYPES.
22             GRENADES, ALL                        9,298                                                  9,298
                TYPES.
23             ROCKETS, ALL                        13,995                                                 13,995
                TYPES.
24             ARTILLERY, ALL                      70,423                                                 70,423
                TYPES.
25             DEMOLITION                          19,464                                                 19,464
                MUNITIONS, ALL
                TYPES.
26             FUZE, ALL TYPES                     18,032                                                 18,032
27             NON LETHALS....                      3,009                                                  3,009
28             AMMO                                 8,985                                                  8,985
                MODERNIZATION.
29             ITEMS LESS THAN                      4,269                                                  4,269
                $5 MILLION.
 
               TOTAL,                             817,991                          0                     817,991
                PROCUREMENT OF
                AMMO, NAVY &
                MC.
 
               SHIPBUILDING &
                CONVERSION,
                NAVY
               OTHER WARSHIPS
1              CARRIER                          1,731,256                                              1,731,256
                REPLACEMENT
                PROGRAM
                SUBSEQUENT
                FULL FUNDING
                (CY).
1                  COMPLETION                           0                                                      0
                   OF PRIOR
                   YEAR
                   SHIPBUILDIN
                   G (CY).
2                  ADVANCE                        908,313                                                908,313
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
3              VIRGINIA CLASS           2       5,344,446                                      2       5,344,446
                SUBMARINE.
3                  LESS:                       -1,902,994                                             -1,902,994
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
3                  COMPLETION                           0                                                      0
                   OF PRIOR
                   YEAR
                   SHIPBUILDIN
                   G (CY).
4                  ADVANCE                      1,691,236                                              1,691,236
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
5              CVN REFUELING                            0                                                      0
                OVERHAULS.
5                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
5                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   SUBSEQUENT
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (FY).
5                  SUBSEQUENT                   1,255,799                                              1,255,799
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (CY).
6                  ADVANCE                        408,037                                                408,037
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
7              SSBN ERO.......                      5,221                                                  5,221
7                  LESS:                           -5,221                                                 -5,221
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
7                  COMPLETION                           0                                                      0
                   OF PRIOR
                   YEAR
                   SHIPBUILDIN
                   G (CY).
8                  ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
9              DDG 1000.......                    186,312                                                186,312
9                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
9                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   SUBSEQUENT
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (FY).
9                  SUBSEQUENT                           0                                                      0
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (CY).
10             DDG-51.........          2       3,499,400                                      2       3,499,400
10                 LESS:                         -577,210                                               -577,210
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
11                 ADVANCE                         47,984                                                 47,984
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
12             LITTORAL COMBAT          2       1,230,984                                      2       1,230,984
                SHIP.
13                 ADVANCE                        278,351                                                278,351
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               AMPHIBIOUS
                SHIPS
14             LPD-17.........                          0                                                      0
14                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
14                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   SUBSEQUENT
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (FY).
14                 SUBSEQUENT                           0                                                      0
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (CY).
14                 COMPLETION                           0                                                      0
                   OF PRIOR
                   YEAR
                   SHIPBUILDIN
                   G (CY).
15                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
16             LHA REPLACEMENT          1       3,397,892                                      1       3,397,892
16                 LESS:                         -347,243                                               -347,243
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
16                 LESS:                       -2,100,752                                             -2,100,752
                   SUBSEQUENT
                   FULL
                   FUNDING
                   (FY).
16                 COMPLETION                           0                                                      0
                   OF PRIOR
                   YEAR
                   SHIPBUILDIN
                   G (CY).
17                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
18             INTRATHEATER             1         180,703                                      1         180,703
                CONNECTOR.
               AUXILIARIES,
                CRAFT AND
                PRIOR YR
                PROGRAM COST
19             OCEANOGRAPHIC            1          88,561                                      1          88,561
                SHIPS.
20             OUTFITTING.....                    306,640                                                306,640
21             SERVICE CRAFT..                     13,770                                                 13,770
22             LCAC SLEP......          4          83,035                                      4          83,035
23             CANCELLED                                0                                                      0
                ACCOUNT
                ADJUSTMENTS.
 
               TOTAL,                          15,724,520                          0                  15,724,520
                SHIPBUILDING &
                CONVERSION,
                NAVY.
 
               OTHER
                PROCUREMENT,
                NAVY
               SHIPS SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
               SHIP PROPULSION
                EQUIPMENT
1              LM-2500 GAS                         12,137                                                 12,137
                TURBINE.
2              ALLISON 501K                        14,923                                                 14,923
                GAS TURBINE.
3              OTHER                                    0                                                      0
                PROPULSION
                EQUIPMENT.
               NAVIGATION
                EQUIPMENT
4              OTHER                               23,167                                                 23,167
                NAVIGATION
                EQUIPMENT.
               PERISCOPES
5              SUB PERISCOPES                      85,619                                                 85,619
                & IMAGING
                EQUIP.
               OTHER SHIPBOARD
                EQUIPMENT
6              DDG MOD........                    296,691                                                296,691
7              FIREFIGHTING                        11,974                                                 11,974
                EQUIPMENT.
8              COMMAND AND                          3,962                                                  3,962
                CONTROL
                SWITCHBOARD.
9              POLLUTION                           25,614                                                 25,614
                CONTROL
                EQUIPMENT.
10             SUBMARINE                            7,730                                                  7,730
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
11             VIRGINIA CLASS                     132,039                      4,800                     136,839
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
                    Tube test                                                 [4,800]
                    equipment.
12             SUBMARINE                           44,057                                                 44,057
                BATTERIES.
13             STRATEGIC                           22,811                                                 22,811
                PLATFORM
                SUPPORT EQUIP.
14             DSSP EQUIPMENT.                      3,869                                                  3,869
15             CG                                 356,958                                                356,958
                MODERNIZATION.
16             LCAC...........                      9,142                                                  9,142
17             MINESWEEPING                             0                                                      0
                EQUIPMENT.
18             UNDERWATER EOD                      15,908                                                 15,908
                PROGRAMS.
19             ITEMS LESS THAN                    126,842                      6,500                     133,342
                $5 MILLION.
                    Remote                                                    [2,900]
                    monitoring
                    and
                    troublesho
                    oting.
                    Helicopter                                                [3,600]
                    hangar
                    door
                    upgrades.
20             CHEMICAL                             7,470                                                  7,470
                WARFARE
                DETECTORS.
21             SUBMARINE LIFE                      13,016                                                 13,016
                SUPPORT SYSTEM.
               REACTOR PLANT
                EQUIPMENT
22             REACTOR POWER                      438,503                                                438,503
                UNITS.
23             REACTOR                            266,469                                                266,469
                COMPONENTS.
               OCEAN
                ENGINEERING
24             DIVING AND                          10,227                                                 10,227
                SALVAGE
                EQUIPMENT.
               SMALL BOATS
25             STANDARD BOATS.                     27,725                      4,400                      32,125
                    Range                                                     [4,400]
                    support
                    vehicle.
               TRAINING
                EQUIPMENT
26             OTHER SHIPS                         16,094                                                 16,094
                TRAINING
                EQUIPMENT.
               PRODUCTION
                FACILITIES
                EQUIPMENT
27             OPERATING                           49,856                                                 49,856
                FORCES IPE.
               OTHER SHIP
                SUPPORT
28             NUCLEAR                            116,829                                                116,829
                ALTERATIONS.
29             LCS MODULES....                     82,951                                                 82,951
               LOGISTIC
                SUPPORT
30             LSD MIDLIFE....                    106,612                                                106,612
               COMMUNICATIONS
                & ELECTRONICS
                EQUIP
               SHIP RADARS
31             RADAR SUPPORT..                     12,030                                                 12,030
               SHIP SONARS
32             SPQ-9B RADAR...                      8,887                                                  8,887
33             AN/SQQ-89 SURF                      87,219                                                 87,219
                ASW COMBAT
                SYSTEM.
34             SSN ACOUSTICS..                    237,015                                                237,015
35             UNDERSEA                            29,641                                                 29,641
                WARFARE
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
36             SONAR SWITCHES                      14,056                                                 14,056
                AND
                TRANSDUCERS.
               ASW ELECTRONIC
                EQUIPMENT
37             SUBMARINE                           20,739                                                 20,739
                ACOUSTIC
                WARFARE SYSTEM.
38             SSTD...........                      2,206                                                  2,206
39             FIXED                               57,481                                                 57,481
                SURVEILLANCE
                SYSTEM.
40             SURTASS........                      8,468                                                  8,468
41             TACTICAL                            18,586                                                 18,586
                SUPPORT CENTER.
               ELECTRONIC
                WARFARE
                EQUIPMENT
42             AN/SLQ-32......                     49,677                                                 49,677
               RECONNAISSANCE
                EQUIPMENT
43             SHIPBOARD IW                       105,624                                                105,624
                EXPLOIT.
44             AUTOMATED                            1,299                                                  1,299
                IDENTIFICATION
                SYSTEM (AIS).
               SUBMARINE
                SURVEILLANCE
                EQUIPMENT
45             SUBMARINE                           71,558                                                 71,558
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT PROG.
               OTHER SHIP
                ELECTRONIC
                EQUIPMENT
46             COOPERATIVE                         31,091                                                 31,091
                ENGAGEMENT
                CAPABILITY.
47             TRUSTED                                338                                                    338
                INFORMATION
                SYSTEM (TIS).
48             NAVAL TACTICAL                      33,358                                                 33,358
                COMMAND
                SUPPORT SYSTEM
                (NTCSS).
49             ATDLS..........                      2,273                                                  2,273
50             NAVY COMMAND                         8,920                                                  8,920
                AND CONTROL
                SYSTEM (NCCS).
51             MINESWEEPING                        81,441                                                 81,441
                SYSTEM
                REPLACEMENT.
52             SHALLOW WATER                        9,236                                                  9,236
                MCM.
53             NAVSTAR GPS                          9,319                                                  9,319
                RECEIVERS
                (SPACE).
54             ARMED FORCES                         3,328                                                  3,328
                RADIO AND TV.
55             STRATEGIC                            4,248                                                  4,248
                PLATFORM
                SUPPORT EQUIP.
               TRAINING
                EQUIPMENT
56             OTHER TRAINING                      29,061                                                 29,061
                EQUIPMENT.
               AVIATION
                ELECTRONIC
                EQUIPMENT
57             MATCALS........                     16,747                                                 16,747
58             SHIPBOARD AIR                        7,658                                                  7,658
                TRAFFIC
                CONTROL.
59             AUTOMATIC                           15,169                                                 15,169
                CARRIER
                LANDING SYSTEM.
60             NATIONAL AIR                        17,531                                                 17,531
                SPACE SYSTEM.
61             AIR STATION                          6,851                                                  6,851
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
62             MICROWAVE                            8,551                                                  8,551
                LANDING SYSTEM.
63             ID SYSTEMS.....                     29,572                                                 29,572
64             TAC A/C MISSION                      9,098                                                  9,098
                PLANNING
                SYS(TAMPS).
               OTHER SHORE
                ELECTRONIC
                EQUIPMENT
65             DEPLOYABLE                           8,542                                                  8,542
                JOINT COMMAND
                AND CONT.
66             TADIX-B........                      6,909                                                  6,909
67             GCCS-M                               9,832                                                  9,832
                EQUIPMENT
                TACTICAL/
                MOBILE.
68             DCGS-N.........                     16,634                                                 16,634
69             CANES..........                     34,398                                                 34,398
70             RADIAC.........                      6,104                                                  6,104
71             CANES-INTELL...                     10,432                                                 10,432
72             GPETE..........                      5,861                                                  5,861
73             INTEG COMBAT                         4,445                                                  4,445
                SYSTEM TEST
                FACILITY.
74             EMI CONTROL                          4,737                                                  4,737
                INSTRUMENTATIO
                N.
75             ITEMS LESS THAN                     51,048                                                 51,048
                $5 MILLION.
               SHIPBOARD
                COMMUNICATIONS
76             SHIPBOARD                                0                                                      0
                TACTICAL
                COMMUNICATIONS.
77             PORTABLE RADIOS                          0                                                      0
78             SHIP                               260,551                                                260,551
                COMMUNICATIONS
                AUTOMATION.
79             MARITIME DOMAIN                      9,250                                                  9,250
                AWARENESS
                (MDA).
80             COMMUNICATIONS                      39,846                                                 39,846
                ITEMS UNDER
                $5M.
               SUBMARINE
                COMMUNICATIONS
81             SUBMARINE                                0                                                      0
                BROADCAST
                SUPPORT.
82             SUBMARINE                           59,013                                                 59,013
                COMMUNICATION
                EQUIPMENT.
               SATELLITE
                COMMUNICATIONS
83             SATELLITE                           28,665                                                 28,665
                COMMUNICATIONS
                SYSTEMS.
84             NAVY MULTIBAND                     161,021                                                161,021
                TERMINAL (NMT).
               SHORE
                COMMUNICATIONS
85             JCS                                  2,256                                                  2,256
                COMMUNICATIONS
                EQUIPMENT.
86             ELECTRICAL                           1,309                                                  1,309
                POWER SYSTEMS.
87             NAVAL SHORE                          3,422                                                  3,422
                COMMUNICATIONS.
               CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                EQUIPMENT
88             INFO SYSTEMS                       120,529                                                120,529
                SECURITY
                PROGRAM (ISSP).
               CRYPTOLOGIC
                EQUIPMENT
89             CRYPTOLOGIC                         18,322                                                 18,322
                COMMUNICATIONS
                EQUIP.
               OTHER
                ELECTRONIC
                SUPPORT
90             COAST GUARD                         20,189                                                 20,189
                EQUIPMENT.
               DRUG
                INTERDICTION
                SUPPORT
91             OTHER DRUG                               0                                                      0
                INTERDICTION
                SUPPORT.
               AVIATION
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
               SONOBUOYS
92             SONOBUOYS--ALL                      87,846                                                 87,846
                TYPES.
               AIRCRAFT
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
93             WEAPONS RANGE                       51,742                                                 51,742
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
94             EXPEDITIONARY                        8,429                                                  8,429
                AIRFIELDS.
95             AIRCRAFT                            11,134                                                 11,134
                REARMING
                EQUIPMENT.
96             AIRCRAFT LAUNCH                     37,063                                                 37,063
                & RECOVERY
                EQUIPMENT.
97             METEOROLOGICAL                      25,581                                                 25,581
                EQUIPMENT.
98             OTHER                                1,573                                                  1,573
                PHOTOGRAPHIC
                EQUIPMENT.
99             AVIATION LIFE                       40,696                                                 40,696
                SUPPORT.
100            AIRBORNE MINE                       35,855                                                 35,855
                COUNTERMEASURE
                S.
101            LAMPS MK III                        20,662                                                 20,662
                SHIPBOARD
                EQUIPMENT.
102            PORTABLE                            12,812                                                 12,812
                ELECTRONIC
                MAINTENANCE
                AIDS.
103            OTHER AVIATION                      12,018                                                 12,018
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
               ORDNANCE
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
               SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                EQUIPMENT
104            NAVAL FIRES                          1,086                                                  1,086
                CONTROL SYSTEM.
105            GUN FIRE                             8,076                                                  8,076
                CONTROL
                EQUIPMENT.
               SHIP MISSILE
                SYSTEMS
                EQUIPMENT
106            NATO SEASPARROW                     11,121                                                 11,121
107            RAM GMLS.......                     11,805                                                 11,805
108            SHIP SELF                           54,290                                                 54,290
                DEFENSE SYSTEM.
109            AEGIS SUPPORT                      162,307                                                162,307
                EQUIPMENT.
110            TOMAHAWK                            88,698                                                 88,698
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
111            VERTICAL LAUNCH                      5,698                                                  5,698
                SYSTEMS.
               FBM SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
112            STRATEGIC                          184,034                                                184,034
                MISSILE
                SYSTEMS EQUIP.
               ASW SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
113            SSN COMBAT                          88,004                                                 88,004
                CONTROL
                SYSTEMS.
114            SUBMARINE ASW                        5,282                                                  5,282
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
115            SURFACE ASW                          8,323                                                  8,323
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
116            ASW RANGE                            7,121                                                  7,121
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
               OTHER ORDNANCE
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
117            EXPLOSIVE                           58,288                                                 58,288
                ORDNANCE
                DISPOSAL EQUIP.
118            ITEMS LESS THAN                      3,546                                                  3,546
                $5 MILLION.
               OTHER
                EXPENDABLE
                ORDNANCE
119            ANTI-SHIP                           36,588                                                 36,588
                MISSILE DECOY
                SYSTEM.
120            SURFACE                              7,337                                                  7,337
                TRAINING
                DEVICE MODS.
121            SUBMARINE                           34,519                                                 34,519
                TRAINING
                DEVICE MODS.
               CIVIL
                ENGINEERING
                SUPPORT EQUIP
               CIVIL
                ENGINEERING
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
122            PASSENGER                            3,719                                                  3,719
                CARRYING
                VEHICLES.
123            GENERAL PURPOSE                        584                                                    584
                TRUCKS.
124            CONSTRUCTION &                      13,935                                                 13,935
                MAINTENANCE
                EQUIP.
125            FIRE FIGHTING                       12,853                                                 12,853
                EQUIPMENT.
126            TACTICAL                            31,741                                                 31,741
                VEHICLES.
127            AMPHIBIOUS                           3,132                                                  3,132
                EQUIPMENT.
128            POLLUTION                            5,154                                                  5,154
                CONTROL
                EQUIPMENT.
129            ITEMS UNDER $5                      24,770                                                 24,770
                MILLION.
130            PHYSICAL                             1,128                                                  1,128
                SECURITY
                VEHICLES.
               SUPPLY SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
131            MATERIALS                           15,504                                                 15,504
                HANDLING
                EQUIPMENT.
132            OTHER SUPPLY                         6,655                                                  6,655
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
133            FIRST                                6,315                                                  6,315
                DESTINATION
                TRANSPORTATION.
134            SPECIAL PURPOSE                     66,549                                                 66,549
                SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
               PERSONNEL &
                COMMAND
                SUPPORT EQUIP
               TRAINING
                DEVICES
135            TRAINING                            11,429                                                 11,429
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
               COMMAND SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
137            COMMAND SUPPORT                     47,306                      5,900                      53,206
                EQUIPMENT.
                    Man                                                       [5,900]
                    overboard
                    indicators.
138            EDUCATION                            2,067                                                  2,067
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
139            MEDICAL SUPPORT                      7,679                                                  7,679
                EQUIPMENT.
141            NAVAL MIP                            1,433                                                  1,433
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
143            OPERATING                           12,754                                                 12,754
                FORCES SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
144            C4ISR EQUIPMENT                      5,317                                                  5,317
145            ENVIRONMENTAL                       20,033                                                 20,033
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
146            PHYSICAL                           154,805                                                154,805
                SECURITY
                EQUIPMENT.
147            ENTERPRISE                         377,353                                                377,353
                INFORMATION
                TECHNOLOGY.
               OTHER
148            CANCELLED                                0                                                      0
                ACCOUNT
                ADJUSTMENTS.
999            CLASSIFIED                          19,767                                                 19,767
                PROGRAMS.
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
149            SPARES AND                         215,906                                                215,906
                REPAIR PARTS.
 
               TOTAL, OTHER                     6,450,208                     21,600                   6,471,808
                PROCUREMENT,
                NAVY.
 
               PROCUREMENT,
                MARINE CORPS
               WEAPONS AND
                COMBAT
                VEHICLES
               TRACKED COMBAT
                VEHICLES
1              AAV7A1 PIP.....                      7,749                                                  7,749
2              LAV PIP........                     41,277                                                 41,277
3              M1A1 FIREPOWER                           0                                                      0
                ENHANCEMENTS.
               ARTILLERY AND
                OTHER WEAPONS
4              EXPEDITIONARY           10           9,723                                     10           9,723
                FIRE SUPPORT
                SYSTEM.
5              155MM                    2          10,356                                      2          10,356
                LIGHTWEIGHT
                TOWED HOWITZER.
6              HIGH MOBILITY                       22,230                                                 22,230
                ARTILLERY
                ROCKET SYSTEM.
7              WEAPONS AND                         26,091                                                 26,091
                COMBAT
                VEHICLES UNDER
                $5 MILLION.
               WEAPONS
8              MODULAR WEAPON                           0                                                      0
                SYSTEM.
               OTHER SUPPORT
9              MODIFICATION                        40,916                                                 40,916
                KITS.
10             WEAPONS                             13,115                                                 13,115
                ENHANCEMENT
                PROGRAM.
               GUIDED MISSILES
                AND EQUIPMENT
               GUIDED MISSILES
11             GROUND BASED                         5,175                                                  5,175
                AIR DEFENSE.
12             JAVELIN........                          0                                                      0
13             FOLLOW ON TO                        21,570                                                 21,570
                SMAW.
14             ANTI-ARMOR                          20,315                                                 20,315
                WEAPONS SYSTEM-
                HEAVY (AAWS-H).
               OTHER SUPPORT
15             MODIFICATION                         3,798                                                  3,798
                KITS.
               COMMUNICATIONS
                & ELECTRONICS
                EQUIPMENT
               COMMAND AND
                CONTROL
                SYSTEMS
16             UNIT OPERATIONS                     10,776                                                 10,776
                CENTER.
               REPAIR AND TEST
                EQUIPMENT
17             REPAIR AND TEST                     25,636                                                 25,636
                EQUIPMENT.
               OTHER SUPPORT
                (TEL)
18             COMBAT SUPPORT                      32,877                                                 32,877
                SYSTEM.
19             MODIFICATION                             0                                                      0
                KITS.
               COMMAND AND
                CONTROL SYSTEM
                (NON-TEL)
20             ITEMS UNDER $5                       3,405                                                  3,405
                MILLION (COMM
                & ELEC).
21             AIR OPERATIONS                      67,568                                                 67,568
                C2 SYSTEMS.
               RADAR +
                EQUIPMENT (NON-
                TEL)
22             RADAR SYSTEMS..                        860                                                    860
               INTELL/COMM
                EQUIPMENT (NON-
                TEL)
23             FIRE SUPPORT                         3,906                                                  3,906
                SYSTEM.
24             INTELLIGENCE                        92,377                                                 92,377
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
25             RQ-11 UAV......         16          32,490                                     16          32,490
26             DCGS-MC........                      4,582                                                  4,582
               OTHER COMM/ELEC
                EQUIPMENT (NON-
                TEL)
27             NIGHT VISION                             0                                                      0
                EQUIPMENT.
               OTHER SUPPORT
                (NON-TEL)
28             COMMON COMPUTER                    258,947                                                258,947
                RESOURCES.
29             COMMAND POST                        33,021                                                 33,021
                SYSTEMS.
30             RADIO SYSTEMS..                     40,551                                                 40,551
31             COMM SWITCHING                      32,279                                                 32,279
                & CONTROL
                SYSTEMS.
32             COMM & ELEC                         15,278                                                 15,278
                INFRASTRUCTURE
                SUPPORT.
               SUPPORT
                VEHICLES
               ADMINISTRATIVE
                VEHICLES
33             COMMERCIAL                           1,157                                                  1,157
                PASSENGER
                VEHICLES.
34             COMMERCIAL                          12,696                                                 12,696
                CARGO VEHICLES.
               TACTICAL
                VEHICLES
35             5/4T TRUCK              17           4,849                                     17           4,849
                HMMWV (MYP).
36             MOTOR TRANSPORT                      5,253                                                  5,253
                MODIFICATIONS.
37             MEDIUM TACTICAL                     11,721                                                 11,721
                VEHICLE
                REPLACEMENT.
38             LOGISTICS              550         133,827                                    550         133,827
                VEHICLE SYSTEM
                REP.
39             FAMILY OF                           19,156                                                 19,156
                TACTICAL
                TRAILERS.
40             TRAILERS.......                      8,075                                                  8,075
               OTHER SUPPORT
41             ITEMS LESS THAN                      6,016                                                  6,016
                $5 MILLION.
               ENGINEER AND
                OTHER
                EQUIPMENT
               ENGINEER AND
                OTHER
                EQUIPMENT
42             ENVIRONMENTAL                        5,110                                                  5,110
                CONTROL EQUIP
                ASSORT.
43             BULK LIQUID                         10,743                                                 10,743
                EQUIPMENT.
44             TACTICAL FUEL                       29,330                                                 29,330
                SYSTEMS.
45             POWER EQUIPMENT                     19,419                                                 19,419
                ASSORTED.
46             AMPHIBIOUS                          11,718                                                 11,718
                SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT.
47             EOD SYSTEMS....                     64,093                                                 64,093
               MATERIALS
                HANDLING
                EQUIPMENT
48             PHYSICAL                            16,419                                                 16,419
                SECURITY
                EQUIPMENT.
49             GARRISON MOBILE                     10,976                                                 10,976
                ENGINEER
                EQUIPMENT
                (GMEE).
50             MATERIAL                            24,376                                                 24,376
                HANDLING EQUIP.
51             FIRST                                2,748                                                  2,748
                DESTINATION
                TRANSPORTATION.
               GENERAL
                PROPERTY
52             FIELD MEDICAL                        6,722                                                  6,722
                EQUIPMENT.
53             TRAINING                             5,668                                                  5,668
                DEVICES.
54             CONTAINER                              897                                                    897
                FAMILY.
55             FAMILY OF                           18,261                                                 18,261
                CONSTRUCTION
                EQUIPMENT.
56             FAMILY OF                                0                                                      0
                INTERNALLY
                TRANSPORTABLE
                VEH (ITV).
57             BRIDGE BOATS...                     12,567                                                 12,567
58             RAPID                                4,283                                                  4,283
                DEPLOYABLE
                KITCHEN.
               OTHER SUPPORT
59             ITEMS LESS THAN                      7,572                                                  7,572
                $5 MILLION.
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
60             SPARES AND                          13,524                                                 13,524
                REPAIR PARTS.
 
               TOTAL,                           1,344,044                          0                   1,344,044
                PROCUREMENT,
                MARINE CORPS.
 
               AIRCRAFT
                PROCUREMENT,
                AIR FORCE
               COMBAT AIRCRAFT
               TACTICAL FORCES
1              F-35...........         22       4,007,842                                     22       4,007,842
1                  LESS:                         -278,600                                               -278,600
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
2                  ADVANCE                        257,000                                                257,000
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
3              F-22A..........                    158,039                                                158,039
3                  LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
4                  ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               AIRLIFT
                AIRCRAFT
               TACTICAL
                AIRLIFT
5              C-17A (MYP)....                     14,283                    114,400                     128,683
                    USAF-                                                   [114,400]
                    requested
                    transfer
                    from C-17
                    post
                    production
                    support
                    (APAF 88).
               OTHER AIRLIFT
6              C-130J.........          8         566,167                                      8         566,167
6                  LESS:                         -102,900                                               -102,900
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
7                  ADVANCE                         48,000                                                 48,000
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
8              HC-130J........          4         349,300                                      4         349,300
9                  ADVANCE                         10,000                                                 10,000
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
10             MC-130J........          5         467,465                                      5         467,465
11                 ADVANCE                         60,000                                                 60,000
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
12             HC/MC-130 RECAP                    137,360                                                137,360
12                 LESS:                         -137,360                                               -137,360
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
13                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
14             JOINT CARGO              8         351,200                                      8         351,200
                AIRCRAFT.
               TRAINER
                AIRCRAFT
               UPT TRAINERS
15             LIGHT MOBILITY          15          65,699                                     15          65,699
                AIRCRAFT.
16             USAFA POWERED           12           4,099                                     12           4,099
                FLIGHT PROGRAM.
               OPERATIONAL
                TRAINERS
17             JPATS..........                          0                                                      0
               OTHER AIRCRAFT
               HELICOPTERS
18             COM VERT LIFT                        6,432                                                  6,432
                SPT PLATFORM
                (UH-1N
                Replace)
                ADVANCE
                PROCUREMENT
                (CY)..........
19             V22 OSPREY.....          5         415,150                                      5         415,150
19                 LESS:                          -22,052                                                -22,052
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
20                 ADVANCE                         13,621                                                 13,621
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
               MISSION SUPPORT
                AIRCRAFT
21             C-29A FLIGHT                             0                                                      0
                INSPECTION
                ACFT.
22             C-12 A.........                          0                                                      0
23             C-40...........                          0                                                      0
24             CIVIL AIR                            2,424                                                  2,424
                PATROL A/C.
25             HH-60M                   3         104,447                                      3         104,447
                OPERATIONAL
                LOSS
                REPLACEMENT.
26             RQ-11..........                          0                                                      0
27             STUASL0........                      3,253                                                  3,253
               OTHER AIRCRAFT
28             TARGET DRONES..          9          85,505                                      9          85,505
29             C-37A..........          2          52,000                                      2          52,000
30             RQ-4 UAV.......          4         762,678                                      4         762,678
30                 LESS:                         -113,049                                               -113,049
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
31                 ADVANCE                         90,200                                                 90,200
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
32             MC 130 IN BA 04                      9,932                                                  9,932
33             MQ-1...........                          0                                                      0
34             MQ-9...........         36         863,595                    -18,300          36         845,295
                    Airborne                                                [-18,300]
                    signals
                    intelligen
                    ce payload.
               MODIFICATION OF
                INSERVICE
                AIRCRAFT
               STRATEGIC
                AIRCRAFT
35             B-2A...........                     63,371                                                 63,371
35                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
36                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
37             B-1B...........                    200,090                                                200,090
38             B-52...........                     69,074                                                 69,074
               TACTICAL
                AIRCRAFT
39             A-10...........                    165,361                                                165,361
40             F-15...........                    302,235                                                302,235
41             F-16...........                    167,188                                                167,188
42             F-22A..........                    492,199                                                492,199
43             F-35                               123,936                                                123,936
                MODIFICATIONS.
               AIRLIFT
                AIRCRAFT
44             C-5............                    848,669                                                848,669
44                 LESS:                         -108,300                                               -108,300
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
45                 ADVANCE                        166,900                                                166,900
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
46             C-9C...........                         10                                                     10
47             C-17A..........                    351,614                                                351,614
48             C-21...........                        339                                                    339
49             C-32A..........                     12,113                                                 12,113
50             C-37A..........                     12,162                                                 12,162
               TRAINER
                AIRCRAFT
51             GLIDER MODS....                        120                                                    120
52             T-6............                     24,644                                                 24,644
53             T-1............                         83                                                     83
54             T-38...........                     28,288                                                 28,288
55             T-43...........                          0                                                      0
               OTHER AIRCRAFT
56             KC-10A (ATCA)..                     13,777                                                 13,777
57             C-12...........                      7,645                                                  7,645
58             MC-12W.........                     10,826                                                 10,826
59             C-20 MODS......                        736                                                    736
60             VC-25A MOD.....                     13,175                                                 13,175
61             C-40...........                     10,697                                                 10,697
62             C-130..........                    257,339                                                257,339
63             C-130 MODS                           3,963                                                  3,963
                INTEL.
64             C130J MODS.....                     80,205                                                 80,205
65             C-135..........                     44,228                      6,000                      50,228
                    LAIRCM for                                               [11,000]
                    KC-135
                    aircraft.
                    Delay in                                                 [-5,000]
                    starting
                    Block 45
                    upgrade
                    program.
66             COMPASS CALL                       176,558                                                176,558
                MODS.
67             DARP...........                    105,540                                                105,540
68             E-3............                    195,163                                                195,163
69             E-4............                     37,526                                                 37,526
70             E-8............                    188,504                    102,500                     291,004
                    Maintain                                                [102,500]
                    JSTARS re-
                    engining
                    at
                    original
                    plan level.
71             H-1............                      2,457                                                  2,457
72             H-60...........                     11,630                                                 11,630
73             RQ-4 UAV MODS..                    119,415                                                119,415
74             HC/MC-130                            1,944                                                  1,944
                MODIFICATIONS.
75             OTHER AIRCRAFT.                    159,423                   -116,400                      43,023
                    Transfer                                               [-116,400]
                    FAB-T
                    funds to
                    PE 33601F
                    (RDAF 180).
76             MQ-1 MODS......                    208,213                                                208,213
77             MQ-9 MODS......                    108,922                                                108,922
78             MQ-9 PAYLOAD--                     115,383                                                115,383
                UAS.
79             CV-22 MODS.....                     13,964                                                 13,964
               AIRCRAFT SPARES
                AND REPAIR
                PARTS
80             INITIAL SPARES/                    622,020                                                622,020
                REPAIR PARTS.
               AIRCRAFT SUPT
                EQUIPMENT &
                FACILITIES
               COMMON SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
81             AIRCRAFT                            91,701                                                 91,701
                REPLACEMENT
                SUPPORT EQUIP.
               POST PRODUCTION
                SUPPORT
82             B-1............                      6,791                                                  6,791
83             B-2A...........                     26,217                                                 26,217
84             B-52...........                      3,443                                                  3,443
85             C-5............                        195                                                    195
86             C-5............                          0                                                      0
87             KC-10A (ATCA)..                      5,702                                                  5,702
88             C-17A..........                    153,347                   -114,400                      38,947
                    USAF-                                                  [-114,400]
                    requested
                    transfer
                    to C-17
                    procuremen
                    t (APAF 5).
89             C-130..........                     28,295                                                 28,295
90             EC-130J........                          0                                                      0
91             F-15...........                     21,599                                                 21,599
92             F-16...........                     17,838                                                 17,838
93             T-6............                      9,450                                                  9,450
94             OTHER AIRCRAFT.                     53,953                                                 53,953
95             T-1............                          0                                                      0
               INDUSTRIAL
                PREPAREDNESS
96             INDUSTRIAL                          24,619                                                 24,619
                RESPONSIVENESS.
               WAR CONSUMABLES
97             WAR CONSUMABLES                     92,939                                                 92,939
               OTHER
                PRODUCTION
                CHARGES
98             OTHER                            1,079,742                                              1,079,742
                PRODUCTION
                CHARGES.
99             OTHER                               37,500                                                 37,500
                PRODUCTION
                CHARGES--MQ-1.
               CLASSIFIED
                PROGRAMS
               OTHER
                PRODUCTION
                CHARGES--SOF
103            CANCELLED ACCT                           0                                                      0
                ADJUSTMENTS.
               DARP
104            DARP...........                     19,117                                                 19,117
999            CLASSIFIED                          12,981                                                 12,981
                PROGRAMS.
 
               TOTAL, AIRCRAFT                 15,366,508                    -26,200                  15,340,308
                PROCUREMENT,
                AIR FORCE.
 
               MISSILE
                PROCUREMENT,
                AIR FORCE
               BALLISTIC
                MISSILES
               MISSILE
                REPLACEMENT
                EQUIPMENT--BAL
                LISTIC
1              MISSILE                             60,647                                                 60,647
                REPLACEMENT EQ-
                BALLISTIC.
               OTHER MISSILES
               TACTICAL
2              JASSM..........        171         215,825                                    171         215,825
3              SIDEWINDER (AIM-       178          64,523                                    178          64,523
                9X).
4              AMRAAM.........        246         355,358                                    246         355,358
5              PREDITOR               460          44,570                                    460          44,570
                HELLFIRE
                MISSILE.
6              SMALL DIAMETER       2,985         134,884                                  2,985         134,884
                BOMB.
               INDUSTRIAL
                FACILITIES
7              INDUSTR'L                              833                                                    833
                PREPAREDNS/POL
                PREVENTION.
               MODIFICATION OF
                INSERVICE
                MISSILES
               CLASS IV
8              ADVANCED CRUISE                         48                                                     48
                MISSILE.
9              MM III                             123,378                                                123,378
                MODIFICATIONS.
10             AGM-65D                                260                                                    260
                MAVERICK.
11             AGM-88A HARM...                      4,079                                                  4,079
12             AIR LAUNCH                          10,795                                                 10,795
                CRUISE MISSILE
                (ALCM).
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
13             INITIAL SPARES/                     43,192                                                 43,192
                REPAIR PARTS.
               OTHER SUPPORT
               SPACE PROGRAMS
14             ADVANCED EHF...                     38,078                                                 38,078
14                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
15                 ADVANCE                        208,520                                                208,520
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
16             WIDEBAND                 1         579,802                                      1         579,802
                GAPFILLER
                SATELLITES(SPA
                CE).
16                 LESS:                          -62,201                                                -62,201
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
17                 ADVANCE                         58,110                                                 58,110
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
18                 ADVANCE                        122,490                                                122,490
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
19             SPACEBORNE                          14,894                                                 14,894
                EQUIP (COMSEC).
20             GLOBAL                              64,609                                                 64,609
                POSITIONING
                (SPACE).
20                 LESS:                                0                                                      0
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
21                 ADVANCE                              0                                                      0
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
22             NUDET DETECTION                          0                                                      0
                SYSTEM.
23             DEF                                 88,719                                                 88,719
                METEOROLOGICAL
                SAT
                PROG(SPACE).
24             EVOLVED                  3       1,153,976                     24,000           3       1,177,976
                EXPENDABLE
                LAUNCH
                VEH(SPACE).
                    Crew                                                     [14,000]
                    augmentati
                    on.
                    GPS metric                                               [10,000]
                    tracking.
25             MEDIUM LAUNCH                            0                                                      0
                VEHICLE(SPACE).
26             SBIR HIGH                1         979,249                                      1         979,249
                (SPACE).
26                 LESS:                         -278,545                                               -278,545
                   ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (PY).
27                 ADVANCE                        270,000                                                270,000
                   PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
28             NATL POLAR-                         26,308                    -16,308                      10,000
                ORBITING OP
                ENV SATELLITE.
                    Early to                                                [-16,308]
                    need.
               SPECIAL
                PROGRAMS
29             DEFENSE SPACE                            0                                                      0
                RECONN PROGRAM.
33             SPECIAL UPDATE                     247,584                                                247,584
                PROGRAMS.
999            CLASSIFIED                         893,287                                                893,287
                PROGRAMS.
 
               TOTAL, MISSILE                   5,463,272                      7,692                   5,470,964
                PROCUREMENT,
                AIR FORCE.
 
               PROCUREMENT OF
                AMMUNITION,
                AIR FORCE
               ROCKETS
1              ROCKETS........                     19,106                                                 19,106
               CARTRIDGES
2              CARTRIDGES.....                    141,049                                                141,049
               BOMBS
3              PRACTICE BOMBS.                     34,094                                                 34,094
4              GENERAL PURPOSE                    183,845                                                183,845
                BOMBS.
5              JOINT DIRECT         3,500         104,642                                  3,500         104,642
                ATTACK
                MUNITION.
               FLARE, IR MJU-
                7B
6              CAD/PAD........                     37,016                                                 37,016
7              EXPLOSIVE                            3,383                                                  3,383
                ORDINANCE
                DISPOSAL (EOD).
8              SPARES AND                           1,000                                                  1,000
                REPAIR PARTS.
9              MODIFICATIONS..                      1,112                                                  1,112
10             ITEMS LESS THAN                      5,015                                                  5,015
                $5,000,000.
               FUZES
11             FLARES.........                     72,758                                                 72,758
12             FUZES..........                     57,337                                                 57,337
               WEAPONS
               SMALL ARMS
13             SMALL ARMS.....                      7,063                                                  7,063
 
               TOTAL,                             667,420                          0                     667,420
                PROCUREMENT OF
                AMMUNITION,
                AIR FORCE.
 
               OTHER
                PROCUREMENT,
                AIR FORCE
               VEHICULAR
                EQUIPMENT
               PASSENGER
                CARRYING
                VEHICLES
1              PASSENGER                           29,207                                                 29,207
                CARRYING
                VEHICLES.
               CARGO + UTILITY
                VEHICLES
2              MEDIUM TACTICAL                     45,618                                                 45,618
                VEHICLE.
3              CAP VEHICLES...                        902                                                    902
4              ITEMS LESS THAN                     31,773                                                 31,773
                $5,000,000
                (CARGO.
               SPECIAL PURPOSE
                VEHICLES
5              SECURITY AND                        52,867                                                 52,867
                TACTICAL
                VEHICLES.
6              ITEMS LESS THAN                     18,358                                                 18,358
                $5,000,000
                (SPECIA.
               FIRE FIGHTING
                EQUIPMENT
7              FIRE FIGHTING/                      26,924                                                 26,924
                CRASH RESCUE
                VEHICLES.
               MATERIALS
                HANDLING
                EQUIPMENT
8              HALVERSEN                                0                                                      0
                LOADER.
9              ITEMS LESS THAT                     14,501                                                 14,501
                $5,000,000.
               BASE
                MAINTENANCE
                SUPPORT
10             RUNWAY SNOW                         25,404                                                 25,404
                REMOV AND
                CLEANING EQU.
11             ITEMS LESS THAN                     54,570                                                 54,570
                $5,000,000(VEH
                ICLES).
               CANCELLED
                ACCOUNT
                ADJUSTM
12             CANCELLED                                0                                                      0
                ACCOUNT
                ADJUSTMENTS
                (BPA.
               ELECTRONICS AND
                TELECOMMUNICAT
                IONS EQUIP
               COMM SECURITY
                EQUIPMENT(COMS
                EC)
13             COMSEC                             216,381                                                216,381
                EQUIPMENT.
14             MODIFICATIONS                        1,582                                                  1,582
                (COMSEC).
               INTELLIGENCE
                PROGRAMS
15             INTELLIGENCE                         2,634                                                  2,634
                TRAINING
                EQUIPMENT.
16             INTELLIGENCE                        30,685                                                 30,685
                COMM EQUIPMENT.
               ELECTRONICS
                PROGRAMS
17             AIR TRAFFIC                          6,517                                                  6,517
                CONTROL &
                LANDING SYS.
18             NATIONAL                           112,056                                                112,056
                AIRSPACE
                SYSTEM.
19             THEATER AIR                         55,326                                                 55,326
                CONTROL SYS
                IMPROVEMEN.
20             WEATHER                             21,018                                                 21,018
                OBSERVATION
                FORECAST.
21             STRATEGIC                           28,164                                                 28,164
                COMMAND AND
                CONTROL.
22             CHEYENNE                            18,416                                                 18,416
                MOUNTAIN
                COMPLEX.
23             TAC SIGNIT SPT.                        377                                                    377
24             DRUG                                     0                                                      0
                INTERDICTION
                SPT.
               SPCL COMM-
                ELECTRONICS
                PROJECTS
25             GENERAL                             74,285                                                 74,285
                INFORMATION
                TECHNOLOGY.
26             AF GLOBAL                            9,210                                                  9,210
                COMMAND &
                CONTROL SYS.
27             MOBILITY                             8,688                                                  8,688
                COMMAND AND
                CONTROL.
28             AIR FORCE                           99,281                                                 99,281
                PHYSICAL
                SECURITY
                SYSTEM.
29             COMBAT TRAINING                     29,637                      7,500                      37,137
                RANGES.
                    Joint                                                     [7,500]
                    threat
                    emitter.
30             C3                                  11,112                                                 11,112
                COUNTERMEASURE
                S.
31             GCSS-AF FOS....                     53,349                                                 53,349
32             THEATER BATTLE                      20,525                                                 20,525
                MGT C2 SYSTEM.
33             AIR & SPACE                         58,284                                                 58,284
                OPERATIONS CTR-
                WPN SYS.
               AIR FORCE
                COMMUNICATIONS
34             INFORMATION                        101,993                                                101,993
                TRANSPORT
                SYSTEMS.
35             BASE INFO                          193,830                                                193,830
                INFRASTRUCTURE.
36             AFNET..........                    151,643                                                151,643
37             VOICE SYSTEMS..                     25,399                                                 25,399
38             USCENTCOM......                     36,020                                                 36,020
               DISA PROGRAMS
39             SPACE BASED IR                      24,804                                                 24,804
                SENSOR PGM
                SPACE.
40             NAVSTAR GPS                          5,279                                                  5,279
                SPACE.
41             NUDET DETECTION                      5,926                                                  5,926
                SYS SPACE.
42             AF SATELLITE                        60,383                                                 60,383
                CONTROL
                NETWORK SPACE.
43             SPACELIFT RANGE                     91,004                     23,500                     114,504
                SYSTEM SPACE.
                    Eastern                                                  [14,000]
                    Processing
                    Facility.
                    Kodiak                                                    [9,500]
                    Launch
                    Complex.
44             MILSATCOM SPACE                    221,545                                                221,545
45             SPACE MODS                          18,384                                                 18,384
                SPACE.
46             COUNTERSPACE                        18,801                                                 18,801
                SYSTEM.
               ORGANIZATION
                AND BASE
47             TACTICAL C-E                       268,140                                                268,140
                EQUIPMENT.
48             COMBAT SURVIVOR                     34,925                                                 34,925
                EVADER LOCATER.
49             RADIO EQUIPMENT                     14,541                                                 14,541
50             CCTV/                               11,613                                                 11,613
                AUDIOVISUAL
                EQUIPMENT.
51             BASE COMM                          108,308                                                108,308
                INFRASTRUCTURE.
               MODIFICATIONS
52             COMM ELECT MODS                     74,356                                                 74,356
               OTHER BASE
                MAINTENANCE
                AND SUPPORT
                EQUIP
               PERSONAL SAFETY
                & RESCUE EQUIP
53             NIGHT VISION                        20,873                                                 20,873
                GOGGLES.
54             ITEMS LESS THAN                     14,292                                                 14,292
                $5,000,000
                (SAFETY).
               DEPOT
                PLANT+MTRLS
                HANDLING EQ
55             MECHANIZED                          12,853                                                 12,853
                MATERIAL
                HANDLING EQUIP.
               BASE SUPPORT
                EQUIPMENT
56             BASE PROCURED                        4,788                                                  4,788
                EQUIPMENT.
57             CONTINGENCY                         28,390                                                 28,390
                OPERATIONS.
58             PRODUCTIVITY                         1,879                                                  1,879
                CAPITAL
                INVESTMENT.
59             MOBILITY                            38,558                                                 38,558
                EQUIPMENT.
60             ITEMS LESS THAN                      4,989                                                  4,989
                $5,000,000
                (BASE S).
               SPECIAL SUPPORT
                PROJECTS
62             DARP RC135.....                     23,296                                                 23,296
63             DCGS-AF........                    271,015                                                271,015
65             SPECIAL UPDATE                     489,680                                                489,680
                PROGRAM.
66             DEFENSE SPACE                       32,668                                                 32,668
                RECONNAISSANCE
                PROG..
999            CLASSIFIED                      14,258,508                                             14,258,508
                PROGRAMS.
               SPARES AND
                REPAIR PARTS
70             SPARES AND                          19,046                                                 19,046
                REPAIR PARTS.
 
               TOTAL, OTHER                    17,845,380                     31,000                  17,876,380
                PROCUREMENT,
                AIR FORCE.
 
               PROCUREMENT,
                DEFENSE-WIDE
               MAJOR EQUIPMENT
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, BTA
1              MAJOR                                4,000                                                  4,000
                EQUIPMENT, BTA.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DCAA
2              ITEMS LESS THAN                      1,477                                                  1,477
                $5 MILLION.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DCMA
3              MAJOR EQUIPMENT                      2,052                                                  2,052
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DHRA
4              PERSONNEL                           32,263                                                 32,263
                ADMINISTRATION.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, DIA
5              DIA SUPPORT TO                           0                                                      0
                CENTCOM
                INTELLIGENCE
                ACT.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DISA
17             INFORMATION                         14,625                                                 14,625
                SYSTEMS
                SECURITY.
18             GLOBAL COMMAND                       5,275                                                  5,275
                AND CONTROL
                SYSTEM.
19             GLOBAL COMBAT                        2,803                                                  2,803
                SUPPORT SYSTEM.
20             TELEPORT                            78,227                                                 78,227
                PROGRAM.
21             ITEMS LESS THAN                    153,288                                                153,288
                $5 MILLION.
22             NET CENTRIC                          4,391                                                  4,391
                ENTERPRISE
                SERVICES
                (NCES).
23             DEFENSE                             86,206                                                 86,206
                INFORMATION
                SYSTEM NETWORK.
24             PUBLIC KEY                           1,710                                                  1,710
                INFRASTRUCTURE.
25             DRUG                                     0                                                      0
                INTERDICTION
                SUPPORT.
26             JOINT COMMAND                            0                                                      0
                AND CONTROL
                PROGRAM.
27             CYBER SECURITY                      22,493                                                 22,493
                INITIATIVE.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, DLA
28             MAJOR EQUIPMENT                      4,846                                                  4,846
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DMACT
29             MAJOR EQUIPMENT          4          10,478                                      4          10,478
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DODEA
30             AUTOMATION/                          1,451                                                  1,451
                EDUCATIONAL
                SUPPORT &
                LOGISTICS.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DEFENSE THREAT
                REDUCTION AGE
31             VEHICLES.......                         50                                                     50
32             OTHER MAJOR                         12,007                                                 12,007
                EQUIPMENT.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                DTSA
33             MAJOR EQUIPMENT                          0                                                      0
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                MISSILE
                DEFENSE AGENCY
34             TERMINAL HIGH           67         858,870                    -25,000          67         833,870
                ALTITUDE AREA
                DEFENSE
                FIELDING.
                    Production                                              [-25,000]
                    delay.
35             AEGIS FIELDING.          8          94,080                                      8          94,080
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT,
                NATIONAL
                GEOSPATIAL
                INTEL AG
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, NSA
45             INFORMATION                          2,546                                                  2,546
                SYSTEMS
                SECURITY
                PROGRAM (ISSP).
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, OSD
50             MAJOR                              124,050                                                124,050
                EQUIPMENT, OSD.
51             MAJOR                               20,138                                                 20,138
                EQUIPMENT,
                INTELLIGENCE.
               UNDISTRIBUTED
52             MAJOR                                    0                                                      0
                EQUIPMENT,
                INTELLIGENCE.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, TJS
53             MAJOR                               11,526                                                 11,526
                EQUIPMENT, TJS.
               MAJOR
                EQUIPMENT, WHS
54             MAJOR                               27,179                                                 27,179
                EQUIPMENT, WHS.
999            CLASSIFIED                         678,531                                                678,531
                PROGRAMS.
               SPECIAL
                OPERATIONS
                COMMAND
               AVIATION
                PROGRAMS
55             ROTARY WING                         79,840                                                 79,840
                UPGRADES AND
                SUSTAINMENT.
56             MH-47 SERVICE                      107,934                                                107,934
                LIFE EXTENSION
                PROGRAM.
57             MH-60 SOF                          179,375                                                179,375
                MODERNIZATION
                PROGRAM.
58             NON-STANDARD             9         179,949                                      9         179,949
                AVIATION.
59             UNMANNED                                 0                                                      0
                VEHICLES.
60             SOF TANKER                          19,996                                                 19,996
                RECAPITALIZATI
                ON.
61             SOF U-28.......                        404                                                    404
62             RQ-11 UAV......                      2,090                                                  2,090
63             CV-22 SOF MOD..          5         124,035                                      5         124,035
64             MQ-1 UAS.......                      1,948                                                  1,948
65             MQ-9 UAV.......                      1,965                                                  1,965
66             STUASL0 UAV....                     12,148                                                 12,148
67             C-130                               22,500                                                 22,500
                MODIFICATIONS.
68             AIRCRAFT                               489                                                    489
                SUPPORT.
               SHIPBUILDING
69             ADVANCED SEAL                            0                                                      0
                DELIVERY
                SYSTEM (ASDS).
70             MK8 MOD1 SEAL                          823                                                    823
                DELIVERY
                VEHICLE.
               AMMUNITION
                PROGRAMS
71             SOF ORDNANCE                        79,608