Calendar No. 894
110th CONGRESS
2d Session
S. 3297

To advance America's priorities.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 22, 2008
Mr. Reid (for himself, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Lieberman, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Inouye, Mr. Kennedy, Mrs. Boxer, and Mr. Biden) introduced the following bill; which was read the first time
July 23, 2008
Read the second time and placed on the calendar
A BILL
To advance America's priorities.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
(a) Short Title.—This Act may be cited as the “Advancing America's Priorities Act”.
(b) Table Of Contents.—The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
TITLE I—HEALTHCARE PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—ALS Registry Act

Sec. 1001. Short title.
Sec. 1002. Amendment to the Public Health Service Act.
Sec. 1003. Report on registries.
Subtitle B—Christoper And Dana Reeve Paralysis Act

Sec. 1101. Short title.
PART I—PARALYSIS RESEARCH

Sec. 1111. Expansion and coordination of activities of the National Institutes of Health with respect to research on paralysis.
PART II—PARALYSIS REHABILITATION RESEARCH AND CARE

Sec. 1121. Expansion and coordination of activities of the National Institutes of Health with respect to research with implications for enhancing daily function for persons with paralysis.
PART III—IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE FOR PERSONS WITH PARALYSIS AND OTHER PHYSICAL DISABILITIES

Sec. 1131. Programs to improve quality of life for persons with paralysis and other physical disabilities.
Subtitle C—Stroke Treatment And Ongoing Prevention Act

Sec. 1201. Short title.
Sec. 1202. Amendments to Public Health Service Act regarding stroke programs.
Sec. 1203. Pilot project on telehealth stroke treatment.
Sec. 1204. Rule of construction.
Subtitle D—Melanie Blocker Stokes MOTHERS Act

Sec. 1301. Short title.
PART I—RESEARCH ON POSTPARTUM CONDITIONS

Sec. 1311. Expansion and intensification of activities.
Sec. 1312. Sense of Congress regarding longitudinal study of relative mental health consequences for women of resolving a pregnancy.
PART II—DELIVERY OF SERVICES REGARDING POSTPARTUM CONDITIONS

Sec. 1321. Establishment of program of grants.
Sec. 1322. Certain requirements.
Sec. 1323. Technical assistance.
PART III—GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 1331. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 1332. Report by the Secretary.
Sec. 1333. Limitation.
Subtitle E—Vision Care For Kids Act Of 2008

Sec. 1401. Short title.
Sec. 1402. Findings.
Sec. 1403. Grants regarding vision care for children.
Subtitle F—Prenatally And Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act

Sec. 1501. Short title.
Sec. 1502. Purposes.
Sec. 1503. Amendment to the Public Health Service Act.
TITLE II—JUDICIARY PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act Of 2008

Sec. 2101. Short title.
Sec. 2102. Findings.
Sec. 2103. Basic center program.
Sec. 2104. Transitional living grant program.
Sec. 2105. Grants for research evaluation, demonstration, and service projects.
Sec. 2106. Coordinating, training, research, and other activities.
Sec. 2107. Sexual abuse prevention program.
Sec. 2108. National homeless youth awareness campaign.
Sec. 2109. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 2110. Performance standards.
Sec. 2111. Government Accountability Office study and report.
Sec. 2112. Definitions.
Sec. 2113. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Act Of 2007

Sec. 2201. Short title.
Sec. 2202. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 2203. Deputy Chief of the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division.
Sec. 2204. Supervisory Special Agent in the Civil Rights Unit of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Sec. 2205. Grants to State and local law enforcement.
Sec. 2206. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2207. Definition of criminal civil rights statutes.
Sec. 2208. Sunset.
Sec. 2209. Authority of Inspectors General.
Subtitle C—Mentally Ill Offender Treatment And Crime Reduction Reauthorization And Improvement Act Of 2008

Sec. 2301. Short title.
Sec. 2302. Findings.
Sec. 2303. Reauthorization of the Adult and Juvenile Collaboration Program Grants.
Sec. 2304. Law enforcement response to mentally ill offenders improvement grants.
Sec. 2305. Improving the mental health courts grant program.
Sec. 2306. Examination and report on prevalence of mentally ill offenders.
Subtitle D—Effective Child Pornography Prosecution Act Of 2007

Sec. 7401. Short title.
Sec. 7402. Findings.
Sec. 7403. Clarifying ban of child pornography.
Subtitle E—Enhancing The Effective Prosecution Of Child Pornography Act Of 2007

Sec. 2501. Short title.
Sec. 2502. Money laundering predicate.
Sec. 2503. Knowingly accessing child pornography with the intent to view child pornography.
Subtitle F—Drug Endangered Children Act Of 2007

Sec. 2601. Short title.
Sec. 2602. Drug-endangered children grant program extended.
Subtitle G—Star-Spangled Banner And War Of 1812 Bicentennial Commission Act

Sec. 2701. Short title.
Sec. 2702. Star-Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission.
Subtitle H—PROTECT Our Children Act Of 2008

Sec. 2801. Short title.
Sec. 2802. Definitions.
PART I—NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR CHILD EXPLOITATION PREVENTION AND INTERDICTION

Sec. 2811. Establishment of National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction.
Sec. 2812. Establishment of National ICAC Task Force Program.
Sec. 2813. Purpose of ICAC task forces.
Sec. 2814. Duties and functions of task forces.
Sec. 2815. National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System.
Sec. 2816. ICAC grant program.
Sec. 2817. Authorization of appropriations.
PART II—ADDITIONAL MEASURES TO COMBAT CHILD EXPLOITATION

Sec. 2821. Additional regional computer forensic labs.
PART III—EFFECTIVE CHILD PORNOGRAPHY PROSECUTION

Sec. 2831. Prohibit the broadcast of live images of child abuse.
Sec. 2832. Amendment to section 2256 of title 18, United States Code.
Sec. 2833. Amendment to section 2260 of title 18, United States Code.
Sec. 2834. Prohibiting the adaptation or modification of an image of an identifiable minor to produce child pornography.
PART IV—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE STUDY OF RISK FACTORS

Sec. 2841. NIJ study of risk factors for assessing dangerousness.
TITLE III—ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROVSIONS
Subtitle A—Captive Primate Safety Act

Sec. 3001. Short title.
Sec. 3002. Addition of nonhuman primates to definition of prohibited wildlife species.
Sec. 3003. Captive wildlife amendments.
Sec. 3004. Applicability provision amendment.
Sec. 3005. Regulations.
Sec. 3006. Authorization of appropriations for additional law enforcement personnel.
Subtitle B—Chesapeake Bay Gateways And Watertrails Network Continuing Authorization Act

Sec. 3011. Short title.
Sec. 3012. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle C—Beach Protection Act Of 2008

Sec. 3021. Short title.
Sec. 3022. Beachwater pollution source identification and prevention.
Sec. 3023. Funding for Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act.
Sec. 3024. State reports.
Sec. 3025. Use of rapid testing methods.
Sec. 3026. Prompt communication with State environmental agencies.
Sec. 3027. Content of State and local programs.
Sec. 3028. Compliance review.
Sec. 3029. Study of grant distribution formula.
Subtitle D—Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments Of 2008

Sec. 3031. Short title.
Sec. 3032. Limitation on available amounts; maximum commission contribution.
Sec. 3033. Economic and energy development initiative.
Sec. 3034. Distressed, at-risk, and economically strong counties.
Sec. 3035. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 3036. Termination.
Sec. 3037. Additions to Appalachian region.
TITLE IV—FOREIGN RELATIONS PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation Act Of 2008

Sec. 4001. Short title.
Sec. 4002. Findings.
Sec. 4003. Purposes.
Sec. 4004. Definitions.
Sec. 4005. Establishment and management of the Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation.
Sec. 4006. Establishment and operation of program.
Sec. 4007. Annual report.
Sec. 4008. Powers of the Foundation; related provisions.
Sec. 4009. General personnel authorities.
Sec. 4010. GAO review.
Sec. 4011. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B—Reconstruction And Stabilization Civilian Management Act Of 2008

Sec. 4101. Short title.
Sec. 4102. Findings.
Sec. 4103. Definitions.
Sec. 4104. Authority to provide assistance for reconstruction and stabilization crises.
Sec. 4105. Reconstruction and stabilization.
Sec. 4106. Authorities related to personnel.
Sec. 4107. Reconstruction and stabilization strategy.
Sec. 4108. Annual reports to Congress.
Subtitle C—Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Of Act Of 2008

Sec. 4201. Short title.
Sec. 4202. Reauthorization of OPIC programs.
Sec. 4203. Requirements regarding internationally recognized worker rights.
Sec. 4204. Preferential consideration of certain investment projects.
Sec. 4205. Climate change mitigation action plan.
Sec. 4206. Increased transparency.
Sec. 4207. Transparency and accountability of investment funds.
Sec. 4208. Prohibition on assistance to develop or promote certain railway connections and railway-related connections.
Sec. 4209. Ineligibility of persons doing certain business with state sponsors of terrorism.
Sec. 4210. Congressional notification regarding maximum contingent liability.
Sec. 4211. Extension of authority to operate in Iraq.
Sec. 4212. Low-income housing.
Sec. 4213. Assistance for small businesses and entities.
Sec. 4214. Technical corrections.
Subtitle D—Tropical Forest And Coral Conservation Reauthorization Act Of 2008

Sec. 4301. Short title.
Sec. 4302. Amendment to short title of Act to encompass expanded scope.
Sec. 4303. Expansion of scope of act to protect forests and coral reefs.
Sec. 4304. Change to name of facility.
Sec. 4305. Eligibility for benefits.
Sec. 4306. United States Government representation on oversight bodies for grants from debt-for-nature swaps and debt-buybacks.
Sec. 4307. Conservation agreements.
Sec. 4308. Conservation Fund.
Sec. 4309. Repeal of authority of the enterprise for The Americas Board to carry out activities under the Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008.
Sec. 4310. Changes to due dates of annual reports to Congress.
Sec. 4311. Changes to International Monetary Fund criterion for country eligibility.
Sec. 4312. New authorization of appropriations for the reduction of debt and authorization for audit, evaluation, monitoring, and administration expenses.
Subtitle E—Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization Act Of 2008

Sec. 4401. Short title.
Sec. 4402. Authorization of appropriations for domestic treatment centers for victims of torture.
Sec. 4403. Authorization of appropriations for foreign treatment centers for victims of torture.
Sec. 4404. Authorization of appropriations for the United States contribution to the United Nations voluntary fund for victims of torture.
Subtitle F—Support For The Museum Of The History Of Polish Jews Act Of 2008

Sec. 4501. Short title.
Sec. 4502. Findings.
Sec. 4503. Assistance for the Museum of the History of Polish Jews.
TITLE V—COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Communications
PART I—BROADBAND DATA IMPROVEMENT ACT

Sec. 5101. Short title.
Sec. 5102. Findings.
Sec. 5103. Improving Federal data on broadband.
Sec. 5104. Study on additional broadband metrics and standards.
Sec. 5105. Study on the impact of broadband speed and price on small businesses.
Sec. 5106. Encouraging State initiatives to improve broadband.
PART II—TRAINING FOR REALTIME WRITERS ACT OF 2007

Sec. 5111. Short title.
Sec. 5112. Findings.
Sec. 5113. Authorization of grant program to promote training and job placement of realtime writers.
Sec. 5114. Application.
Sec. 5115. Use of funds.
Sec. 5116. Reports.
Sec. 5117. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 5118. Sunset.
Subtitle B—Oceans
PART I—HYDROGRAPHIC SERVICES IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2008

Sec. 5201. Short title.
Sec. 5202. Definitions.
Sec. 5203. Functions of the Administrator.
Sec. 5204. Hydrographic Services Review Panel.
Sec. 5205. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 5206. Authorized NOAA corps strength.
PART II—OCEAN EXPLORATION
SUBPART A—EXPLORATION

Sec. 5211. Purpose.
Sec. 5212. Program established.
Sec. 5213. Powers and duties of the Administrator.
Sec. 5214. Ocean exploration and undersea research technology and infrastructure task force.
Sec. 5215. Ocean Exploration Advisory Board.
Sec. 5216. Authorization of appropriations.
SUBPART B—NOAA UNDERSEA RESEARCH PROGRAM ACT OF 2008

Sec. 5221. Short title.
Sec. 5222. Program established.
Sec. 5223. Powers of program director.
Sec. 5224. Administrative structure.
Sec. 5225. Research, exploration, education, and technology programs.
Sec. 5226. Competitiveness.
Sec. 5227. Authorization of appropriations.
PART III—OCEAN AND COASTAL MAPPING INTEGRATION ACT

Sec. 5231. Short title.
Sec. 5232. Establishment of program.
Sec. 5233. Interagency committee on ocean and coastal mapping.
Sec. 5234. Biannual reports.
Sec. 5235. Plan.
Sec. 5236. Effect on other laws.
Sec. 5237. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 5238. Definitions.
PART IV—NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008

Sec. 5241. Short title.
Sec. 5242. References.
Sec. 5243. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 5244. Definitions.
Sec. 5245. National Sea Grant College Program.
Sec. 5246. Program or project grants and contracts.
Sec. 5247. Extension services by Sea Grant Colleges and Sea Grant Institutes.
Sec. 5248. Fellowships.
Sec. 5249. National Sea Grant Advisory Board.
Sec. 5250. Authorization of appropriations.
PART V—INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION SYSTEM ACT OF 2008

Sec. 5261. Short title.
Sec. 5262. Purposes.
Sec. 5263. Definitions.
Sec. 5264. Integrated coastal and ocean observing system.
Sec. 5265. Interagency financing and agreements.
Sec. 5266. Application with other laws.
Sec. 5267. Report to Congress.
Sec. 5268. Public-private use policy.
Sec. 5269. Independent cost estimate.
Sec. 5270. Intent of Congress.
Sec. 5271. Authorization of appropriations.
PART VI—FEDERAL OCEAN ACIDIFICATION RESEARCH AND MONITORING ACT OF 2008

Sec. 5281. Short title.
Sec. 5282. Purposes.
Sec. 5283. Definitions.
Sec. 5284. Interagency subcommittee.
Sec. 5285. Strategic research plan.
Sec. 5286. NOAA ocean acidification activities.
Sec. 5287. NSF ocean acidification activities.
Sec. 5288. NASA ocean acidification activities.
Sec. 5289. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VI—HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—National Capital Transportation Amendments Act Of 2008

Sec. 6101. Short title; findings.
Sec. 6102. Authorization for Capital and Preventive Maintenance projects for Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.
Subtitle B—Preservation Of Records Of Servitude, Emancipation, And Post-Civil War Reconstruction Act

Sec. 6201. Short title.
Sec. 6202. Establishment of national database.
Sec. 6203. Grants for establishment of State and local databases.
Sec. 6204. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle C—Predisaster Hazard Mitigation Act Of 2008

Sec. 6301. Short title.
Sec. 6302. Predisaster hazard mitigation.
Sec. 6303. Flood control projects.
Sec. 6304. Technical and conforming amendments.
TITLE VII—RULES AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS

Sec. 7001. Construction of greenhouse facility.
TITLE I—HEALTHCARE PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—ALS Registry Act
SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “ALS Registry Act”.
SEC. 1002. AMENDMENT TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“SEC. 399R. AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS REGISTRY.
“(a) Establishment.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after the receipt of the report described in subsection (b)(2)(A), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall—
“(A) develop a system to collect data on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (referred to in this section as ‘ALS’) and other motor neuron disorders that can be confused with ALS, misdiagnosed as ALS, and in some cases progress to ALS, including information with respect to the incidence and prevalence of the disease in the United States; and
“(B) establish a national registry for the collection and storage of such data to develop a population-based registry of cases in the United States of ALS and other motor neuron disorders that can be confused with ALS, misdiagnosed as ALS, and in some cases progress to ALS.
“(2) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of the registry established under paragraph (1)(B) to—
“(A) better describe the incidence and prevalence of ALS in the United States;
“(B) examine appropriate factors, such as environmental and occupational, that may be associated with the disease;
“(C) better outline key demographic factors (such as age, race or ethnicity, gender, and family history of individuals who are diagnosed with the disease) associated with the disease;
“(D) better examine the connection between ALS and other motor neuron disorders that can be confused with ALS, misdiagnosed as ALS, and in some cases progress to ALS; and
“(E) other matters as recommended by the Advisory Committee established under subsection (b).
“(b) Advisory Committee.—
“(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish a committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on the National ALS Registry (referred to in this section as the ‘Advisory Committee’). The Advisory Committee shall be composed of not more than 27 members to be appointed by the Secretary, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, of which—
“(A) two-thirds of such members shall represent governmental agencies—
“(i) including at least one member representing—
“(I) the National Institutes of Health, to include, upon the recommendation of the Director of the National Institutes of Health, representatives from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences;
“(II) the Department of Veterans Affairs;
“(III) the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry; and
“(IV) the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and
“(ii) of which at least one such member shall be a clinician with expertise on ALS and related diseases, an epidemiologist with experience in data registries, a statistician, an ethicist, and a privacy expert (relating to the privacy regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996); and
“(B) one-third of such members shall be public members, including at least one member representing—
“(i) national and voluntary health associations;
“(ii) patients with ALS or their family members;
“(iii) clinicians with expertise on ALS and related diseases;
“(iv) epidemiologists with experience in data registries;
“(v) geneticists or experts in genetics who have experience with the genetics of ALS or other neurological diseases and
“(vi) other individuals with an interest in developing and maintaining the National ALS Registry.
“(2) DUTIES.—The Advisory Committee shall review information and make recommendations to the Secretary concerning—
“(A) the development and maintenance of the National ALS Registry;
“(B) the type of information to be collected and stored in the Registry;
“(C) the manner in which such data is to be collected;
“(D) the use and availability of such data including guidelines for such use; and
“(E) the collection of information about diseases and disorders that primarily affect motor neurons that are considered essential to furthering the study and cure of ALS.
“(3) REPORT.—Not later than 270 days after the date on which the Advisory Committee is established, the Advisory Committee shall submit a report to the Secretary concerning the review conducted under paragraph (2) that contains the recommendations of the Advisory Committee with respect to the results of such review.
“(c) Grants.—The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may award grants to, and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with, public or private nonprofit entities for the collection, analysis, and reporting of data on ALS and other motor neuron disorders that can be confused with ALS, misdiagnosed as ALS, and in some cases progress to ALS after receiving the report under subsection (b)(3).
“(d) Coordination With State, Local, And Federal Registries.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—In establishing the National ALS Registry under subsection (a), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall—
“(A) identify, build upon, expand, and coordinate among existing data and surveillance systems, surveys, registries, and other Federal public health and environmental infrastructure wherever possible, which may include—
“(i) any registry pilot projects previously supported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
“(ii) the Department of Veterans Affairs ALS Registry;
“(iii) the DNA and Cell Line Repository of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Human Genetics Resource Center at the National Institutes of Health;
“(iv) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry studies, including studies conducted in Illinois, Missouri, El Paso and San Antonio, Texas, and Massachusetts;
“(v) State-based ALS registries;
“(vi) the National Vital Statistics System; and
“(vii) any other existing or relevant databases that collect or maintain information on those motor neuron diseases recommended by the Advisory Committee established in subsection (b); and
“(B) provide for research access to ALS data as recommended by the Advisory Committee established in subsection (b) to the extent permitted by applicable statutes and regulations and in a manner that protects personal privacy consistent with applicable privacy statutes and regulations.
“(2) COORDINATION WITH NIH AND DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.—Consistent with applicable privacy statutes and regulations, the Secretary shall ensure that epidemiological and other types of information obtained under subsection (a) is made available to the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
“(e) Definition.—For the purposes of this section, the term ‘national voluntary health association’ means a national non-profit organization with chapters or other affiliated organizations in States throughout the United States with experience serving the population of individuals with ALS and have demonstrated experience in ALS research, care, and patient services.
“(f) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2009, $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, and $16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2013.”.
SEC. 1003. REPORT ON REGISTRIES.
Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report outlining—
(1) the registries currently under way;
(2) future planned registries;
(3) the criteria involved in determining what registries to conduct, defer, or suspend; and
(4) the scope of those registries.
The report shall also include a description of the activities the Secretary undertakes to establish partnerships with research and patient advocacy communities to expand registries.
Subtitle B—Christoper And Dana Reeve Paralysis Act
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Act”.
PART I—PARALYSIS RESEARCH
SEC. 1111. EXPANSION AND COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH WITH RESPECT TO RESEARCH ON PARALYSIS.
(a) Coordination.—The Director of the National Institutes of Health (referred to in this subtitle as the “Director”), pursuant to the general authority of the Director, may develop mechanisms to coordinate the paralysis research and rehabilitation activities of the Institutes and Centers of the National Institutes of Health in order to further advance such activities and avoid duplication of activities.
(b) Christopher And Dana Reeve Paralysis Research Consortia.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director may under subsection (a) make awards of grants to public or private entities to pay all or part of the cost of planning, establishing, improving, and providing basic operating support for consortia in paralysis research. The Director shall designate each consortium funded under grants as a Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Research Consortium.
(2) RESEARCH.—Each consortium under paragraph (1)—
(A) may conduct basic, translational and clinical paralysis research;
(B) may focus on advancing treatments and developing therapies in paralysis research;
(C) may focus on one or more forms of paralysis that result from central nervous system trauma or stroke;
(D) may facilitate and enhance the dissemination of clinical and scientific findings; and
(E) may replicate the findings of consortia members or other researchers for scientific and translational purposes.
(3) COORDINATION OF CONSORTIA; REPORTS.—The Director may, as appropriate, provide for the coordination of information among consortia under paragraph (1) and ensure regular communication between members of the consortia, and may require the periodic preparation of reports on the activities of the consortia and the submission of the reports to the Director.
(4) ORGANIZATION OF CONSORTIA.—Each consortium under paragraph (1) may use the facilities of a single lead institution, or be formed from several cooperating institutions, meeting such requirements as may be prescribed by the Director.
(c) Public Input.—The Director may provide for a mechanism to educate and disseminate information on the existing and planned programs and research activities of the National Institutes of Health with respect to paralysis and through which the Director can receive comments from the public regarding such programs and activities.
PART II—PARALYSIS REHABILITATION RESEARCH AND CARE
SEC. 1121. EXPANSION AND COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH WITH RESPECT TO RESEARCH WITH IMPLICATIONS FOR ENHANCING DAILY FUNCTION FOR PERSONS WITH PARALYSIS.
(a) In General.—The Director, pursuant to the general authority of the Director, may make awards of grants to public or private entities to pay all or part of the costs of planning, establishing, improving, and providing basic operating support to multicenter networks of clinical sites that will collaborate to design clinical rehabilitation intervention protocols and measures of outcomes on one or more forms of paralysis that result from central nervous system trauma, disorders, or stroke, or any combination of such conditions.
(b) Research.—Each multicenter clinical trial network may—
(1) focus on areas of key scientific concern, including—
(A) improving functional mobility;
(B) promoting behavioral adaptation to functional losses, especially to prevent secondary complications;
(C) assessing the efficacy and outcomes of medical rehabilitation therapies and practices and assisting technologies;
(D) developing improved assistive technology to improve function and independence; and
(E) understanding whole body system responses to physical impairments, disabilities, and societal and functional limitations; and
(2) replicate the findings of network members for scientific and translation purposes.
(c) Coordination Of Clinical Trials Networks; Reports.—The Director may, as appropriate, provide for the coordination of information among networks and ensure regular communication between members of the networks, and may require the periodic preparation of reports on the activities of the networks and submission of reports to the Director.
PART III—IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE FOR PERSONS WITH PARALYSIS AND OTHER PHYSICAL DISABILITIES
SEC. 1131. PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR PERSONS WITH PARALYSIS AND OTHER PHYSICAL DISABILITIES.
(a) In General.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this part referred to as the “Secretary”) may study the unique health challenges associated with paralysis and other physical disabilities and carry out projects and interventions to improve the quality of life and long-term health status of persons with paralysis and other physical disabilities. The Secretary may carry out such projects directly and through awards of grants or contracts.
(b) Certain Activities.—Activities under subsection (a) may include—
(1) the development of a national paralysis and physical disability quality of life action plan, to promote health and wellness in order to enhance full participation, independent living, self-sufficiency and equality of opportunity in partnership with voluntary health agencies focused on paralysis and other physical disabilities, to be carried out in coordination with the State-based Disability and Health Program of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
(2) support for programs to disseminate information involving care and rehabilitation options and quality of life grant programs supportive of community based programs and support systems for persons with paralysis and other physical disabilities;
(3) in collaboration with other centers and national voluntary health agencies, establish a population-based database that may be used for longitudinal and other research on paralysis and other disabling conditions; and
(4) the replication and translation of best practices and the sharing of information across States, as well as the development of comprehensive, unique and innovative programs, services, and demonstrations within existing State-based disability and health programs of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention which are designed to support and advance quality of life programs for persons living with paralysis and other physical disabilities focusing on—
(A) caregiver education;
(B) promoting proper nutrition, increasing physical activity, and reducing tobacco use;
(C) education and awareness programs for health care providers;
(D) prevention of secondary complications;
(E) home and community-based interventions;
(F) coordinating services and removing barriers that prevent full participation and integration into the community; and
(G) recognizing the unique needs of underserved populations.
(c) Grants.—The Secretary may award grants in accordance with the following:
(1) To State and local health and disability agencies for the purpose of—
(A) establishing a population-based database that may be used for longitudinal and other research on paralysis and other disabling conditions;
(B) developing comprehensive paralysis and other physical disability action plans and activities focused on the items listed in subsection (b)(4);
(C) assisting State-based programs in establishing and implementing partnerships and collaborations that maximize the input and support of people with paralysis and other physical disabilities and their constituent organizations;
(D) coordinating paralysis and physical disability activities with existing State-based disability and health programs;
(E) providing education and training opportunities and programs for health professionals and allied caregivers; and
(F) developing, testing, evaluating, and replicating effective intervention programs to maintain or improve health and quality of life.
(2) To private health and disability organizations for the purpose of—
(A) disseminating information to the public;
(B) improving access to services for persons living with paralysis and other physical disabilities and their caregivers;
(C) testing model intervention programs to improve health and quality of life; and
(D) coordinating existing services with State-based disability and health programs.
(d) Coordination Of Activities.—The Secretary shall ensure that activities under this section are coordinated as appropriate with other agencies of the Department of Health and Human Services.
(e) Authorization Of Appropriations.—For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2012.
Subtitle C—Stroke Treatment And Ongoing Prevention Act
SEC. 1201. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Stroke Treatment and Ongoing Prevention Act”.
SEC. 1202. AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT REGARDING STROKE PROGRAMS.
(a) Stroke Education And Information Programs.—Title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“PART S—STROKE EDUCATION, INFORMATION, AND DATA COLLECTION PROGRAMS
“SEC. 399FF. STROKE PREVENTION AND EDUCATION CAMPAIGN.
“(a) In General.—The Secretary shall carry out an education and information campaign to promote stroke prevention and increase the number of stroke patients who seek immediate treatment.
“(b) Authorized Activities.—In implementing the education and information campaign under subsection (a), the Secretary may—
“(1) make public service announcements about the warning signs of stroke and the importance of treating stroke as a medical emergency;
“(2) provide education regarding ways to prevent stroke and the effectiveness of stroke treatment; and
“(3) carry out other activities that the Secretary determines will promote prevention practices among the general public and increase the number of stroke patients who seek immediate care.
“(c) Measurements.—In implementing the education and information campaign under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
“(1) measure public awareness before the start of the campaign to provide baseline data that will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the public awareness efforts;
“(2) establish quantitative benchmarks to measure the impact of the campaign over time; and
“(3) measure the impact of the campaign not less than once every 2 years or, if determined appropriate by the Secretary, at shorter intervals.
“(d) No Duplication Of Effort.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall avoid duplicating existing stroke education efforts by other Federal Government agencies.
“(e) Consultation.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary may consult with organizations and individuals with expertise in stroke prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation.
“SEC. 399GG. PAUL COVERDELL NATIONAL ACUTE STROKE REGISTRY AND CLEARINGHOUSE.
“The Secretary, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall maintain the Paul Coverdell National Acute Stroke Registry and Clearinghouse by—
“(1) continuing to develop and collect specific data points and appropriate benchmarks for analyzing care of acute stroke patients;
“(2) collecting, compiling, and disseminating information on the achievements of, and problems experienced by, State and local agencies and private entities in developing and implementing emergency medical systems and hospital-based quality of care interventions; and
“(3) carrying out any other activities the Secretary determines to be useful to maintain the Paul Coverdell National Acute Stroke Registry and Clearinghouse to reflect the latest advances in all forms of stroke care.
“SEC. 399HH. STROKE DEFINITION.
“For purposes of this part, the term ‘stroke’ means a ‘brain attack’ in which blood flow to the brain is interrupted or in which a blood vessel or aneurysm in the brain breaks or ruptures.
“SEC. 399II. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
“There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.”.
(b) Emergency Medical Professional Development.—Section 1251 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d–51) is amended to read as follows:
“SEC. 1251. MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN ADVANCED STROKE AND TRAUMATIC INJURY TREATMENT AND PREVENTION.
“(a) Residency And Other Professional Training.—The Secretary may make grants to public and nonprofit entities for the purpose of planning, developing, and enhancing approved residency training programs and other professional training for appropriate health professions in emergency medicine, including emergency medical services professionals, to improve stroke and traumatic injury prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation.
“(b) Continuing Education On Stroke And Traumatic Injury.—
“(1) GRANTS.—The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, may make grants to qualified entities for the development and implementation of education programs for appropriate health care professionals in the use of newly developed diagnostic approaches, technologies, and therapies for health professionals involved in the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of stroke or traumatic injury.
“(2) DISTRIBUTION OF GRANTS.—In awarding grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give preference to qualified entities that will train health care professionals that serve areas with a significant incidence of stroke or traumatic injuries.
“(3) APPLICATION.—A qualified entity desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities carried out with amounts received under the grant.
“(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection:
“(A) The term ‘qualified entity’ means a consortium of public and private entities, such as universities, academic medical centers, hospitals, and emergency medical systems that are coordinating education activities among providers serving in a variety of medical settings.
“(B) The term ‘stroke’ means a ‘brain attack’ in which blood flow to the brain is interrupted or in which a blood vessel or aneurysm in the brain breaks or ruptures.
“(c) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the allocation of grants under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the results of activities carried out with amounts received under this section.
“(d) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013. The Secretary shall equitably allocate the funds authorized to be appropriated under this section between efforts to address stroke and efforts to address traumatic injury.”.
SEC. 1203. PILOT PROJECT ON TELEHEALTH STROKE TREATMENT.
(a) Establishment.—Part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 330L the following:
“SEC. 330M. TELEHEALTH STROKE TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM.
“(a) Grants.—The Secretary may make grants to States, and to consortia of public and private entities located in any State that is not a grantee under this section, to conduct a 5-year pilot project over the period of fiscal years 2008 through 2012 to improve stroke patient outcomes by coordinating health care delivery through telehealth networks.
“(b) Administration.—The Secretary shall administer this section through the Director of the Office for the Advancement of Telehealth.
“(c) Consultation.—In carrying out this section, for the purpose of better coordinating program activities, the Secretary shall consult with—
“(1) officials responsible for other Federal programs involving stroke research and care, including such programs established by the Stroke Treatment and Ongoing Prevention Act; and
“(2) organizations and individuals with expertise in stroke prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation.
“(d) Use Of Funds.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may not make a grant to a State or a consortium under this section unless the State or consortium agrees to use the grant for the purpose of—
“(A) identifying entities with expertise in the delivery of high-quality stroke prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation;
“(B) working with those entities to establish or improve telehealth networks to provide stroke treatment assistance and resources to health care professionals, hospitals, and other individuals and entities that serve stroke patients;
“(C) informing emergency medical systems of the location of entities identified under subparagraph (A) to facilitate the appropriate transport of individuals with stroke symptoms;
“(D) establishing networks to coordinate collaborative activities for stroke prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation;
“(E) improving access to high-quality stroke care, especially for populations with a shortage of stroke care specialists and populations with a high incidence of stroke; and
“(F) conducting ongoing performance and quality evaluations to identify collaborative activities that improve clinical outcomes for stroke patients.
“(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF CONSORTIUM.—The Secretary may not make a grant to a State under this section unless the State agrees to establish a consortium of public and private entities, including universities and academic medical centers, to carry out the activities described in paragraph (1).
“(3) PROHIBITION.—The Secretary may not make a grant under this section to a State that has an existing telehealth network that is or may be used for improving stroke prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation, or to a consortium located in such a State, unless the State or consortium agrees that—
“(A) the State or consortium will use an existing telehealth network to achieve the purpose of the grant; and
“(B) the State or consortium will not establish a separate network for such purpose.
“(e) Priority.—In selecting grant recipients under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to any applicant that submits a plan demonstrating how the applicant, and where applicable the members of the consortium described in subsection (d)(2), will use the grant to improve access to high-quality stroke care for populations with shortages of stroke-care specialists and populations with a high incidence of stroke.
“(f) Grant Period.—The Secretary may not award a grant to a State or a consortium under this section for any period that—
“(1) is greater than 3 years; or
“(2) extends beyond the end of fiscal year 2012.
“(g) Restriction On Number Of Grants.—In carrying out the 5-year pilot project under this section, the Secretary may not award more than 7 grants.
“(h) Application.—To seek a grant under this section, a State or a consortium of public and private entities shall submit an application to the Secretary in such form, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. At a minimum, the Secretary shall require each such application to outline how the State or consortium will establish baseline measures and benchmarks to evaluate program outcomes.
“(i) Definition.—In this section, the term ‘stroke’ means a ‘brain attack’ in which blood flow to the brain is interrupted or in which a blood vessel or aneurysm in the brain breaks or ruptures.
“(j) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2009, $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2011, $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2012, and $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2013.”.
(b) Study; Reports.—
(1) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than March 31, 2014, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall conduct a study of the results of the telehealth stroke treatment grant program under section 330M of the Public Health Service Act (added by subsection (a)) and submit to the Congress a report on such results that includes the following:
(A) An evaluation of the grant program outcomes, including quantitative analysis of baseline and benchmark measures.
(B) Recommendations on how to promote stroke networks in ways that improve access to clinical care in rural and urban areas and reduce the incidence of stroke and the debilitating and costly complications resulting from stroke.
(C) Recommendations on whether similar telehealth grant programs could be used to improve patient outcomes in other public health areas.
(2) INTERIM REPORTS.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services may provide interim reports to the Congress on the telehealth stroke treatment grant program under section 330M of the Public Health Service Act (added by subsection (a)) at such intervals as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
SEC. 1204. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish Federal standards for the treatment of patients or the licensure of health care professionals.
Subtitle D—Melanie Blocker Stokes MOTHERS Act
SEC. 1301. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the “Melanie Blocker Stokes Mom's Opportunity to Access Health, Education, Research, and Support for Postpartum Depression Act” or the “Melanie Blocker Stokes MOTHERS Act”.
PART I—RESEARCH ON POSTPARTUM CONDITIONS
SEC. 1311. EXPANSION AND INTENSIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES.
(a) Definitions.—For purposes of this subtitle—
(1) the term “postpartum conditions” means postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis; and
(2) the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) Continuation Of Activities.—The Secretary is encouraged to continue activities on postpartum conditions.
(c) Programs For Postpartum Conditions.—In carrying out subsection (b), the Secretary is encouraged to continue research to expand the understanding of the causes of, and treatments for, postpartum conditions. Activities under such subsection shall include conducting and supporting the following:
(1) Basic research concerning the etiology and causes of the conditions.
(2) Epidemiological studies to address the frequency and natural history of the conditions and the differences among racial and ethnic groups with respect to the conditions.
(3) The development of improved screening and diagnostic techniques.
(4) Clinical research for the development and evaluation of new treatments.
(5) Information and education programs for health care professionals and the public, which may include a coordinated national campaign to increase the awareness and knowledge of postpartum conditions. Activities under such a national campaign may—
(A) include public service announcements through television, radio, and other means; and
(B) focus on—
(i) raising awareness about screening;
(ii) educating new mothers and their families about postpartum conditions to promote earlier diagnosis and treatment; and
(iii) ensuring that such education includes complete information concerning postpartum conditions, including its symptoms, methods of coping with the illness, and treatment resources.
SEC. 1312. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING LONGITUDINAL STUDY OF RELATIVE MENTAL HEALTH CONSEQUENCES FOR WOMEN OF RESOLVING A PREGNANCY.
(a) Sense Of Congress.—It is the sense of Congress that the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health may conduct a nationally representative longitudinal study (during the period of fiscal years 2008 through 2018) of the relative mental health consequences for women of resolving a pregnancy (intended and unintended) in various ways, including carrying the pregnancy to term and parenting the child, carrying the pregnancy to term and placing the child for adoption, miscarriage, and having an abortion. This study may assess the incidence, timing, magnitude, and duration of the immediate and long-term mental health consequences (positive or negative) of these pregnancy outcomes.
(b) Report.—Subject to the completion of the study under subsection (a), beginning not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, and periodically thereafter for the duration of the study, such Director may prepare and submit to the Congress reports on the findings of the study.
PART II—DELIVERY OF SERVICES REGARDING POSTPARTUM CONDITIONS
SEC. 1321. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM OF GRANTS.
(a) In General.—The Secretary may in accordance with this part make grants to provide for projects for the establishment, operation, and coordination of effective and cost-efficient systems for the delivery of essential services to individuals with a postpartum condition and their families.
(b) Recipients Of Grant.—A grant under subsection (a) may be made to an entity only if the entity is a public or nonprofit private entity, which may include a State or local government, a public-private partnership, a recipient of a grant under the Healthy Start program under section 330H of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c–8), a public or nonprofit private hospital, community-based organization, hospice, ambulatory care facility, community health center, migrant health center, public housing primary care center, or homeless health center, or any other appropriate public or nonprofit private entity.
(c) Certain Activities.—To the extent practicable and appropriate, the Secretary shall ensure that projects under subsection (a) provide education and services with respect to the diagnosis and management of postpartum conditions. Activities that the Secretary may authorize for such projects may also include the following:
(1) Delivering or enhancing outpatient and home-based health and support services, including case management and comprehensive treatment services for individuals with or at risk for postpartum conditions, and delivering or enhancing support services for their families.
(2) Delivering or enhancing inpatient care management services that ensure the well-being of the mother and family and the future development of the infant.
(3) Improving the quality, availability, and organization of health care and support services (including transportation services, attendant care, homemaker services, day or respite care, and providing counseling on financial assistance and insurance) for individuals with a postpartum condition and support services for their families.
(4) Providing education to new mothers and, as appropriate, their families about postpartum conditions to promote earlier diagnosis and treatment. Such education may include—
(A) providing complete information on postpartum conditions, symptoms, methods of coping with the illness, and treatment resources; and
(B) in the case of a grantee that is a State, hospital, or birthing facility—
(i) providing education to new mothers and fathers, and other family members as appropriate, concerning postpartum conditions before new mothers leave the health facility; and
(ii) ensuring that training programs regarding such education are carried out at the health facility.
(d) Integration With Other Programs.—To the extent practicable and appropriate, the Secretary may integrate the program under this part with other grant programs carried out by the Secretary, including the program under section 330 of the Public Health Service Act.
SEC. 1322. CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.
A grant may be made under section 1321 only if the applicant involved makes the following agreements:
(1) Not more than 5 percent of the grant will be used for administration, accounting, reporting, and program oversight functions.
(2) The grant will be used to supplement and not supplant funds from other sources related to the treatment of postpartum conditions.
(3) The applicant will abide by any limitations deemed appropriate by the Secretary on any charges to individuals receiving services pursuant to the grant. As deemed appropriate by the Secretary, such limitations on charges may vary based on the financial circumstances of the individual receiving services.
(4) The grant will not be expended to make payment for services authorized under section 1321(a) to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to such services—
(A) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or
(B) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.
(5) The applicant will, at each site at which the applicant provides services under section 1321(a), post a conspicuous notice informing individuals who receive the services of any Federal policies that apply to the applicant with respect to the imposition of charges on such individuals.
(6) For each grant period, the applicant will submit to the Secretary a report that describes how grant funds were used during such period.
SEC. 1323. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
The Secretary may provide technical assistance to assist entities in complying with the requirements of this part in order to make such entities eligible to receive grants under section 1321.
PART III—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1331. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
To carry out this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle, there are authorized to be appropriated, in addition to such other sums as may be available for such purpose—
(1) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2009; and
(2) such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2010 and 2011.
SEC. 1332. REPORT BY THE SECRETARY.
(a) Study.—The Secretary shall conduct a study on the benefits of screening for postpartum conditions.
(b) Report.—Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete the study required by subsection (a) and submit a report to the Congress on the results of such study.
SEC. 1333. LIMITATION.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle, the Secretary may not utilize amounts made available under subtitle to carry out activities or programs that are duplicative of activities or programs that are currently being carried out through the Department of Health and Human Services.
Subtitle E—Vision Care For Kids Act Of 2008
SEC. 1401. SHORT TITLE.
The subtitle may be cited as the “Vision Care for Kids Act of 2008”.
SEC. 1402. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Millions of children in the United States suffer from vision problems, many of which go undetected. Because children with vision problems can struggle developmentally, resulting in physical, emotional, and social consequences, good vision is essential for proper physical development and educational progress.
(2) Vision problems in children range from common conditions such as refractive errors, amblyopia, strabismus, ocular trauma, and infections, to rare but potentially life- or sight-threatening problems such as retinoblastoma, infantile cataracts, congenital glaucoma, and genetic or metabolic diseases of the eye.
(3) Since many serious ocular conditions are treatable if identified in the preschool and early school-age years, early detection provides the best opportunity for effective treatment and can have far-reaching implications for vision.
(4) Various identification methods, including vision screening and comprehensive eye examinations required by State laws, can be helpful in identifying children needing services. A child identified as needing services through vision screening should receive a comprehensive eye examination followed by subsequent treatment as needed. Any child identified as needing services should have access to subsequent treatment as needed.
(5) There is a need to increase public awareness about the prevalence and devastating consequences of vision disorders in children and to educate the public and health care providers about the warning signs and symptoms of ocular and vision disorders and the benefits of early detection, evaluation, and treatment.
SEC. 1403. GRANTS REGARDING VISION CARE FOR CHILDREN.
(a) In General.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may award grants to States on the basis of an established review process for the purpose of complementing existing State efforts for—
(1) providing comprehensive eye examinations by a licensed optometrist or ophthalmologist for children who have been previously identified through a vision screening or eye examination by a licensed health care provider or vision screener as needing such services, with priority given to children who are under the age of 9 years;
(2) providing treatment or services, subsequent to the examinations described in paragraph (1), necessary to correct vision problems; and
(3) developing and disseminating, to parents, teachers, and health care practitioners, educational materials on recognizing signs of visual impairment in children.
(b) Criteria And Coordination.—
(1) CRITERIA.—The Secretary, in consultation with appropriate professional and patient organizations including individuals with knowledge of age appropriate vision services, shall develop criteria—
(A) governing the operation of the grant program under subsection (a); and
(B) for the collection of data related to vision assessment and the utilization of follow-up services.
(2) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall, as appropriate, coordinate the program under subsection (a) with the program under section 330 of the Public Health Service Act (relating to health centers) (42 U.S.C. 254b), the program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (relating to the Medicaid program) (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.), the program under title XXI of such Act (relating to the State children's health insurance program) (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.), and with other Federal or State programs that provide services to children.
(c) Application.—To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), a State shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, made in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—
(1) information on existing Federal, Federal-State, or State-funded children's vision programs;
(2) a plan for the use of grant funds, including how funds will be used to complement existing State efforts (including possible partnerships with non-profit entities);
(3) a plan to determine if a grant eligible child has been identified as provided for in subsection (a); and
(4) a description of how funds will be used to provide items or services, only as a secondary payer—
(A) for an eligible child, to the extent that the child is not covered for the items or services under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or
(B) for an eligible child, to the extent that the child receives the items or services from an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.
(d) Evaluations.—To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), a State shall agree that, not later than 1 year after the date on which amounts under the grant are first received by the State, and annually thereafter while receiving amounts under the grant, the State will submit to the Secretary an evaluation of the operations and activities carried out under the grant, including—
(1) an assessment of the utilization of vision services and the status of children receiving these services as a result of the activities carried out under the grant;
(2) the collection, analysis, and reporting of children's vision data according to guidelines prescribed by the Secretary; and
(3) such other information as the Secretary may require.
(e) Limitations In Expenditure Of Grant.—A grant may be made under subsection (a) only if the State involved agrees that the State will not expend more than 20 percent of the amount received under the grant to carry out the purpose described in paragraph (3) of such subsection.
(f) Matching Funds.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to the costs of the activities to be carried out with a grant under subsection (a), a condition for the receipt of the grant is that the State involved agrees to make available (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that is not less than 25 percent of such costs.
(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT CONTRIBUTED.—Non-Federal contributions required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.
(g) Definition.—For purposes of this section, the term “comprehensive eye examination” includes an assessment of a patient's history, general medical observation, external and ophthalmoscopic examination, visual acuity, ocular alignment and motility, refraction, and as appropriate, binocular vision or gross visual fields, performed by an optometrist or an ophthalmologist.
(h) Authorization Of Appropriations.—For the purpose of carrying out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $65,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.
Subtitle F—Prenatally And Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act
SEC. 1501. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited As the “Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act”.
SEC. 1502. PURPOSES.
It is the purpose of this subtitle to—
(1) increase patient referrals to providers of key support services for women who have received a positive diagnosis for Down syndrome, or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions, as well as to provide up-to-date information on the range of outcomes for individuals living with the diagnosed condition, including physical, developmental, educational, and psychosocial outcomes;
(2) strengthen existing networks of support through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Health Resources and Services Administration, and other patient and provider outreach programs; and
(3) ensure that patients receive up-to-date, evidence-based information about the accuracy of the test.
SEC. 1503. AMENDMENT TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT.
Part P of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g et seq.), as amended by section 1002, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
“SEC. 399S. SUPPORT FOR PATIENTS RECEIVING A POSITIVE DIAGNOSIS OF DOWN SYNDROME OR OTHER PRENATALLY OR POSTNATALLY DIAGNOSED CONDITIONS.
“(a) Definitions.—In this section:
“(1) DOWN SYNDROME.—The term ‘Down syndrome’ refers to a chromosomal disorder caused by an error in cell division that results in the presence of an extra whole or partial copy of chromosome 21.
“(2) HEALTH CARE PROVIDER.—The term ‘health care provider’ means any person or entity required by State or Federal law or regulation to be licensed, registered, or certified to provide health care services, and who is so licensed, registered, or certified.
“(3) POSTNATALLY DIAGNOSED CONDITION.—The term ‘postnatally diagnosed condition’ means any health condition identified during the 12-month period beginning at birth.
“(4) PRENATALLY DIAGNOSED CONDITION.—The term ‘prenatally diagnosed condition’ means any fetal health condition identified by prenatal genetic testing or prenatal screening procedures.
“(5) PRENATAL TEST.—The term ‘prenatal test’ means diagnostic or screening tests offered to pregnant women seeking routine prenatal care that are administered on a required or recommended basis by a health care provider based on medical history, family background, ethnic background, previous test results, or other risk factors.
“(b) Information And Support Services.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, may authorize and oversee certain activities, including the awarding of grants, contracts or cooperative agreements to eligible entities, to—
“(A) collect, synthesize, and disseminate current evidence-based information relating to Down syndrome or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions; and
“(B) coordinate the provision of, and access to, new or existing supportive services for patients receiving a positive diagnosis for Down syndrome or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions, including—
“(i) the establishment of a resource telephone hotline accessible to patients receiving a positive test result or to the parents of newly diagnosed infants with Down syndrome and other diagnosed conditions;
“(ii) the expansion and further development of the National Dissemination Center for Children with Disabilities, so that such Center can more effectively conduct outreach to new and expecting parents and provide them with up-to-date information on the range of outcomes for individuals living with the diagnosed condition, including physical, developmental, educational, and psychosocial outcomes;
“(iii) the expansion and further development of national and local peer-support programs, so that such programs can more effectively serve women who receive a positive diagnosis for Down syndrome or other prenatal conditions or parents of infants with a postnatally diagnosed condition;
“(iv) the establishment of a national registry, or network of local registries, of families willing to adopt newborns with Down syndrome or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions, and links to adoption agencies willing to place babies with Down syndrome or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions, with families willing to adopt; and
“(v) the establishment of awareness and education programs for health care providers who provide, interpret, or inform parents of the results of prenatal tests for Down syndrome or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions, to patients, consistent with the purpose described in section 2(b)(1) of the Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act.
“(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—In this subsection, the term ‘eligible entity’ means—
“(A) a State or a political subdivision of a State;
“(B) a consortium of 2 or more States or political subdivisions of States;
“(C) a territory;
“(D) a health facility or program operated by or pursuant to a contract with or grant from the Indian Health Service; or
“(E) any other entity with appropriate expertise in prenatally and postnatally diagnosed conditions (including nationally recognized disability groups), as determined by the Secretary.
“(3) DISTRIBUTION.—In distributing funds under this subsection, the Secretary shall place an emphasis on funding partnerships between health care professional groups and disability advocacy organizations.
“(c) Provision Of Information To Providers.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—A grantee under this section shall make available to health care providers of parents who receive a prenatal or postnatal diagnosis the following:
“(A) Up-to-date, evidence-based, written information concerning the range of outcomes for individuals living with the diagnosed condition, including physical, developmental, educational, and psychosocial outcomes.
“(B) Contact information regarding support services, including information hotlines specific to Down syndrome or other prenatally or postnatally diagnosed conditions, resource centers or clearinghouses, national and local peer support groups, and other education and support programs as described in subsection (b)(2).
“(2) INFORMATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—Information provided under this subsection shall be—
“(A) culturally and linguistically appropriate as needed by women receiving a positive prenatal diagnosis or the family of infants receiving a postnatal diagnosis; and
“(B) approved by the Secretary.
“(d) Report.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Government Accountability Office shall submit a report to Congress concerning the effectiveness of current healthcare and family support programs serving as resources for the families of children with disabilities.”.
TITLE II—JUDICIARY PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act Of 2008
SEC. 2101. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act of 2008”.
SEC. 2102. FINDINGS.
Section 302 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
“(3) services to such young people should be developed and provided using a positive youth development approach that ensures a young person a sense of—
“(A) safety and structure;
“(B) belonging and membership;
“(C) self-worth and social contribution;
“(D) independence and control over one's life; and
“(E) closeness in interpersonal relationships.”.
SEC. 2103. BASIC CENTER PROGRAM.
(a) Services Provided.—Section 311 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5711) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(2)(B), by striking clause (i) and inserting the following:
“(i) safe and appropriate shelter provided for not to exceed 21 days; and”; and
(2) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) by striking “(2) The” and inserting “(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the”;
(B) by striking “$100,000” and inserting “$200,000”;
(C) by striking “$45,000” and inserting “$70,000”; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
“(B) For fiscal years 2009 and 2010, the amount allotted under paragraph (1) with respect to a State for a fiscal year shall be not less than the amount allotted under paragraph (1) with respect to such State for fiscal year 2008.
“(C) Whenever the Secretary determines that any part of the amount allotted under paragraph (1) to a State for a fiscal year will not be obligated before the end of the fiscal year, the Secretary shall reallot such part to the remaining States for obligation for the fiscal year.”.
(b) Eligibility.—Section 312(b) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5712(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (11), by striking “and” at the end;
(2) in paragraph (12), by striking the period and inserting “; and”; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
“(13) shall develop an adequate emergency preparedness and management plan.”.
SEC. 2104. TRANSITIONAL LIVING GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) Eligibility.—Section 322(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714–2(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking “directly or indirectly” and inserting “by grant, agreement, or contract”; and
(B) by striking “services” the first place it appears and inserting “provide, by grant, agreement, or contract, services,”;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking “a continuous period not to exceed 540 days, except that” and all that follows and inserting the following: “a continuous period not to exceed 635 days, except that a youth in a program under this part who has not reached 18 years of age on the last day of the 635-day period may, if otherwise qualified for the program, remain in the program until the youth's 18th birthday;”;
(3) in paragraph (14), by striking “and” at the end;
(4) in paragraph (15), by striking the period and inserting “; and”; and
(5) by adding at the end the following:
“(16) to develop an adequate emergency preparedness and management plan.”.
SEC. 2105. GRANTS FOR RESEARCH EVALUATION, DEMONSTRATION, AND SERVICE PROJECTS.
Section 343 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714–23) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “special consideration” and inserting “priority”;
(B) in paragraph (8)—
(i) by striking “to health” and inserting “to quality health”;
(ii) by striking “mental health care” and inserting “behavioral health care”; and
(iii) by striking “and” at the end;
(C) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and inserting “, including access to educational and workforce programs to achieve outcomes such as decreasing secondary school dropout rates, increasing rates of attaining a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent, or increasing placement and retention in postsecondary education or advanced workforce training programs; and”; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
“(10) providing programs, including innovative programs, that assist youth in obtaining and maintaining safe and stable housing, and which may include programs with supportive services that continue after the youth complete the remainder of the programs.”; and
(2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
“(c) In selecting among applicants for grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
“(1) give priority to applicants who have experience working with runaway or homeless youth; and
“(2) ensure that the applicants selected—
“(A) represent diverse geographic regions of the United States; and
“(B) carry out projects that serve diverse populations of runaway or homeless youth.”.
SEC. 2106. COORDINATING, TRAINING, RESEARCH, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES.
Part D of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714–21 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“SEC. 345. PERIODIC ESTIMATE OF INCIDENCE AND PREVALENCE OF YOUTH HOMELESSNESS.
“(a) Periodic Estimate.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act of 2008, and at 5-year intervals thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation with the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and make available to the public, a report—
“(1) by using the best quantitative and qualitative social science research methods available, containing an estimate of the incidence and prevalence of runaway and homeless individuals who are not less than 13 years of age but are less than 26 years of age; and
“(2) that includes with such estimate an assessment of the characteristics of such individuals.
“(b) Content.—The report required by subsection (a) shall include—
“(1) the results of conducting a survey of, and direct interviews with, a representative sample of runaway and homeless individuals who are not less than 13 years of age but are less than 26 years of age, to determine past and current—
“(A) socioeconomic characteristics of such individuals; and
“(B) barriers to such individuals obtaining—
“(i) safe, quality, and affordable housing;
“(ii) comprehensive and affordable health insurance and health services; and
“(iii) incomes, public benefits, supportive services, and connections to caring adults; and
“(2) such other information as the Secretary determines, in consultation with States, units of local government, and national nongovernmental organizations concerned with homelessness, may be useful.
“(c) Implementation.—If the Secretary enters into any contract with a non-Federal entity for purposes of carrying out subsection (a), such entity shall be a nongovernmental organization, or an individual, determined by the Secretary to have appropriate expertise in quantitative and qualitative social science research.”.
SEC. 2107. SEXUAL ABUSE PREVENTION PROGRAM.
Section 351(b) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714–41(b)) is amended by inserting “public and” after “priority to”.
SEC. 2108. NATIONAL HOMELESS YOUTH AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.
The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating part F as part G; and
(2) by inserting after part E the following:
“PART F—NATIONAL HOMELESS YOUTH AWARENESS CAMPAIGN
“SEC. 361. NATIONAL HOMELESS YOUTH AWARENESS CAMPAIGN.
“(a) In General.—The Secretary shall, directly or through grants or contracts, conduct a national homeless youth awareness campaign (referred to in this section as the ‘national awareness campaign’) in accordance with this section for purposes of—
“(1) increasing awareness of individuals of all ages, socioeconomic backgrounds, and geographic locations, of the issues facing runway and homeless youth, the resources available for these youth, and the tools available for the prevention of runaway and homeless youth situations; and
“(2) encouraging parents, guardians, educators, health care professionals, social service professionals, law enforcement officials, and other community members to seek to prevent runaway youth and youth homelessness by assisting youth in averting or resolving runaway and homeless youth situations.
“(b) Use Of Funds.—Funds made available to carry out this section for the national awareness campaign may be used only for the following:
“(1) The dissemination of educational information and materials through various media, including television, radio, the Internet and related technologies, and emerging technologies.
“(2) Partnerships, including outreach activities, with national organizations concerned with youth homelessness, community-based youth service organizations (including faith-based organizations), and government organizations, related to the national awareness campaign.
“(3) In accordance with applicable laws (including regulations), the development and placement of public service announcements, in telecommunications media, including the Internet and related technologies and emerging technologies, that educate the public on—
“(A) the issues facing runaway and homeless youth (or youth considering running away); and
“(B) the opportunities that adults have to assist youth described in subparagraph (A).
“(4) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the national awareness campaign.
“(c) Prohibitions.—None of the funds made available under section 388(a)(5) may be obligated or expended for any of the following:
“(1) For activities that supplant pro bono public service time donated by national or local broadcasting networks, advertising agencies, or production companies, or supplant other pro bono work for the national awareness campaign.
“(2) For partisan political purposes, or express advocacy in support of or to defeat any clearly identified candidate, clearly identified ballot initiative, or clearly identified legislative or regulatory proposal.
“(3) To fund advertising that features any person seeking elected office.
“(4) To fund advertising that does not contain a primary message intended to educate the public on—
“(A) the issues facing runaway and homeless youth (or youth considering running away); and
“(B) on the opportunities that adults have to help youth described in subparagraph (A).
“(5) To fund advertising that solicits contributions to support the national awareness campaign.
“(d) Financial And Performance Accountability.—The Secretary shall perform—
“(1) audits and reviews of costs of the national awareness campaign, pursuant to section 304C of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 254d); and
“(2) an audit to determine whether the costs of the national awareness campaign are allowable under section 306 of such Act (41 U.S.C. 256).
“(e) Report.—The Secretary shall include in each report submitted under section 382 a summary of information about the national awareness campaign that describes—
“(1) the activities undertaken by the national awareness campaign;
“(2) steps taken to ensure that the national awareness campaign operates in an effective and efficient manner consistent with the overall strategy and focus of the national awareness campaign; and
“(3) each grant made to, or contract entered into with, a particular corporation, partnership, or individual working on the national awareness campaign.”.
SEC. 2109. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) Reports.—Section 382(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5715(a)) is amended by striking “, and E” and inserting “, E, and F”.
(b) Consolidated Review.—Section 385 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5731a) is amended by striking “, and E” and inserting “, E, and F”.
(c) Evaluation And Information.—Section 386(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732(a)) is amended by striking “, or E” and inserting “, E, or F”.
SEC. 2110. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
Part G of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714a et seq.), as redesignated by section 2108, is amended by inserting after section 386 the following:
“SEC. 386A. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
“(a) Establishment Of Performance Standards.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act of 2008, the Secretary shall issue rules that specify performance standards for public and nonprofit private entities and agencies that receive grants under sections 311, 321, and 351.
“(b) Consultation.—The Secretary shall consult with representatives of public and nonprofit private entities and agencies that receive grants under this title, including statewide and regional nonprofit organizations (including combinations of such organizations) that receive grants under this title, and national nonprofit organizations concerned with youth homelessness, in developing the performance standards required by subsection (a).
“(c) Implementation Of Performance Standards.—The Secretary shall integrate the performance standards into the processes of the Department of Health and Human Services for grantmaking, monitoring, and evaluation for programs under sections 311, 321, and 351.”.
SEC. 2111. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE STUDY AND REPORT.
(a) Study.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study, including making findings and recommendations, relating to the processes for making grants under parts A, B, and E of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5711 et seq., 5714–1 et seq., 5714–41).
(2) SUBJECTS.—In particular, the Comptroller General shall study—
(A) the Secretary’s written responses to and other communications with applicants who do not receive grants under part A, B, or E of such Act, to determine if the information provided in the responses and communications is conveyed clearly;
(B) the content and structure of the grant application documents, and of other associated documents (including grant announcements), to determine if the requirements of the applications and other associated documents are presented and structured in a way that gives an applicant a clear understanding of the information that the applicant must provide in each portion of an application to successfully complete it, and a clear understanding of the terminology used throughout the application and other associated documents;
(C) the peer review process for applications for the grants, including the selection of peer reviewers, the oversight of the process by staff of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the extent to which such staff make funding determinations based on the comments and scores of the peer reviewers;
(D) the typical timeframe, and the process and responsibilities of such staff, for responding to applicants for the grants, and the efforts made by such staff to communicate with the applicants when funding decisions or funding for the grants is delayed, such as when funding is delayed due to funding of a program through appropriations made under a continuing resolution; and
(E) the plans for implementation of, and the implementation of, where practicable, the technical assistance and training programs carried out under section 342 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714–22), and the effect of such programs on the application process for the grants.
(b) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a report containing the findings and recommendations resulting from the study.
SEC. 2112. DEFINITIONS.
(a) Homeless Youth.—Section 387(3) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a(3)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking “The” and all that follows through “means” and inserting “The term ‘homeless’, used with respect to a youth, means”; and
(2) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) in clause (i)—
(i) by striking “not more than” each place it appears and inserting “less than”; and
(ii) by inserting after “age” the last place it appears the following: “, or is less than a higher maximum age if the State where the center is located has an applicable State or local law (including a regulation) that permits such higher maximum age in compliance with licensure requirements for child-and youth-serving facilities”; and
(B) in clause (ii), by striking “age;” and inserting the following: “age and either—
“(I) less than 22 years of age; or
“(II) not less than 22 years of age, as of the expiration of the maximum period of stay permitted under section 322(a)(2) if such individual commences such stay before reaching 22 years of age;”.
(b) Runaway Youth.—Section 387 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5732a) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively; and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
“(4) RUNAWAY YOUTH.—The term ‘runaway’, used with respect to a youth, means an individual who is less than 18 years of age and who absents himself or herself from home or a place of legal residence without the permission of a parent or legal guardian.”.
SEC. 2113. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 388(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking “is authorized” and inserting “are authorized”;
(B) by striking “part E) $105,000,000 for fiscal year 2004” and inserting “section 345 and parts E and F) $150,000,000 for fiscal year 2009”; and
(C) by striking “2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008” and inserting “2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013”;
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) by striking “In” and inserting the following:
“(A) IN GENERAL.—In”;
(B) by inserting “(other than section 345)” before the period; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
“(B) PERIODIC ESTIMATE.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 345 such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.”;
(3) in paragraph (4)—
(A) by striking “is authorized” and inserting “are authorized”; and
(B) by striking “such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008” and inserting “$30,000,000 for fiscal year 2009 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013”; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
“(5) PART F.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out part F $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2009 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.”.
Subtitle B—Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crimes Act Of 2007
SEC. 2201. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Emmett Till Unsolved Civil Rights Crime Act of 2007”.
SEC. 2202. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that all authorities with jurisdiction, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other entities within the Department of Justice, should—
(1) expeditiously investigate unsolved civil rights murders, due to the amount of time that has passed since the murders and the age of potential witnesses; and
(2) provide all the resources necessary to ensure timely and thorough investigations in the cases involved.
SEC. 2203. DEPUTY CHIEF OF THE CRIMINAL SECTION OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION.
(a) In General.—The Attorney General shall designate a Deputy Chief in the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice (in this subtitle referred to as the “Deputy Chief”).
(b) Responsibility.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Deputy Chief shall be responsible for coordinating the investigation and prosecution of violations of criminal civil rights statutes that occurred not later than December 31, 1969, and resulted in a death.
(2) COORDINATION.—In investigating a complaint under paragraph (1), the Deputy Chief may coordinate investigative activities with State and local law enforcement officials.
(c) Study And Report.—
(1) STUDY.—The Attorney General shall annually conduct a study of the cases under the jurisdiction of the Deputy Chief or under the jurisdiction of the Supervisory Special Agent and, in conducting the study, shall determine—
(A) the number of open investigations within the Department of Justice for violations of criminal civil rights statutes that occurred not later than December 31, 1969;
(B) the number of new cases opened pursuant to this subtitle since the most recent study conducted under this paragraph;
(C) the number of unsealed Federal cases charged within the study period, including the case names, the jurisdiction in which the charges were brought, and the date the charges were filed;
(D) the number of cases referred by the Department of Justice to a State or local law enforcement agency or prosecutor within the study period, the number of such cases that resulted in State charges being filed, the jurisdiction in which such charges were filed, the date the charges were filed, and if a jurisdiction declines to prosecute or participate in an investigation of a case so referred, the fact it did so;
(E) the number of cases within the study period that were closed without Federal prosecution, the case names of unsealed Federal cases, the dates the cases were closed, and the relevant Federal statutes;
(F) the number of attorneys who worked, in whole or in part, on any case described in subsection (b)(1); and
(G) the applications submitted for grants under section 2205, the award of such grants, and the purposes for which the grant amount were expended.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 12 months thereafter, the Attorney General shall prepare and submit to Congress a report containing the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).
SEC. 2204. SUPERVISORY SPECIAL AGENT IN THE CIVIL RIGHTS UNIT OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.
(a) In General.—The Attorney General shall designate a Supervisory Special Agent in the Civil Rights Unit of the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice (in this subtitle referred to as the “Supervisory Special Agent”).
(b) Responsibility.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Supervisory Special Agent shall be responsible for investigating violations of criminal civil rights statutes that occurred not later than December 31, 1969, and resulted in a death.
(2) COORDINATION.—In investigating a complaint under paragraph (1), the Supervisory Special Agent may coordinate the investigative activities with State and local law enforcement officials.
SEC. 2205. GRANTS TO STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT.
(a) In General.—The Attorney General may make grants to State or local law enforcement agencies for expenses associated with the investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses, involving civil rights, that occurred not later than December 31, 1969, and resulted in a death.
(b) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2017 to carry out this section.
SEC. 2206. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) In General.—There are authorized to be appropriated, in addition to any other amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for this purpose, to the Attorney General $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2017 for investigating and prosecuting violations of criminal civil rights statutes that occurred not later than December 31, 1969, and resulted in a death. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this subsection shall be allocated by the Attorney General to the Deputy Chief and the Supervisory Special Agent in order to advance the purposes set forth in this subtitle.
(b) Community Relations Service Of The Department Of Justice.—In addition to any amounts authorized to be appropriated under title XI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000h et seq.), there are authorized to be appropriated to the Community Relations Service of the Department of Justice $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2008 and each subsequent fiscal year, to enable the Community Relations Service (in carrying out the functions described in title X of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2000g et seq.)) to provide technical assistance by bringing together law enforcement agencies and communities in the investigation of violations of criminal civil rights statutes, in cases described in section 2204(b).
SEC. 2207. DEFINITION OF CRIMINAL CIVIL RIGHTS STATUTES.
In this subtitle, the term “criminal civil rights statutes” means—
(1) section 241 of title 18, United States Code (relating to conspiracy against rights);
(2) section 242 of title 18, United States Code (relating to deprivation of rights under color of law);
(3) section 245 of title 18, United States Code (relating to federally protected activities);
(4) sections 1581 and 1584 of title 18, United States Code (relating to involuntary servitude and peonage);
(5) section 901 of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3631); and
(6) any other Federal law that—
(A) was in effect on or before December 31, 1969; and
(B) the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice enforced, before the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 2208. SUNSET.
Sections 2202 through 2206 of this subtitle shall cease to have force or effect at the end of fiscal year 2017.
SEC. 2209. AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS GENERAL.
Title XXXVII of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 5779 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“SEC. 3703. AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS GENERAL.
“(a) In General.—An Inspector General appointed under section 3 or 8G of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) may authorize staff to assist the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children—
“(1) by conducting reviews of inactive case files to develop recommendations for further investigations; and
“(2) by engaging in similar activities.
“(b) Limitations.—
“(1) PRIORITY.—An Inspector General may not permit staff to engage in activities described in subsection (a) if such activities will interfere with the duties of the Inspector General under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
“(2) FUNDING.—No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section.”.
Subtitle C—Mentally Ill Offender Treatment And Crime Reduction Reauthorization And Improvement Act Of 2008
SEC. 2301. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008”.
SEC. 2302. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Communities nationwide are struggling to respond to the high numbers of people with mental illnesses involved at all points in the criminal justice system.
(2) A 1999 study by the Department of Justice estimated that 16 percent of people incarcerated in prisons and jails in the United States, which is more than 300,000 people, suffer from mental illnesses.
(3) Los Angeles County Jail and New York’s Rikers Island jail complex hold more people with mental illnesses than the largest psychiatric inpatient facilities in the United States.
(4) State prisoners with a mental health problem are twice as likely as those without a mental health problem to have been homeless in the year before their arrest.
SEC. 2303. REAUTHORIZATION OF THE ADULT AND JUVENILE COLLABORATION PROGRAM GRANTS.
(a) Authorization Of Appropriations Through 2014.—Section 2991(h) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793aa(h)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking at the end “and”;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking “for fiscal years 2006 through 2009.” and inserting “for each of the fiscal years 2006 and 2007; and”; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
“(3) $75,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2014.”.
(b) Allocation Of Funding For Administrative Purposes.—Section 2991(h) of such title is further amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) (as added by subsection (a)(3)) as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly;
(2) by striking “There are authorized” and inserting “(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized”; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
“(2) Allocation Of Funding For Administrative Purposes.—For fiscal year 2009 and each subsequent fiscal year, of the amounts authorized under paragraph (1) for such fiscal year, the Attorney General may obligate not more than 3 percent for the administrative expenses of the Attorney General in carrying out this section for such fiscal year.”.
(c) Additional Applications Receiving Priority.—Subsection (c) of such section is amended to read as follows:
“(c) Priority.—The Attorney General, in awarding funds under this section, shall give priority to applications that—
“(1) promote effective strategies by law enforcement to identify and to reduce risk of harm to mentally ill offenders and public safety;
“(2) promote effective strategies for identification and treatment of female mentally ill offenders; or
“(3) (A) demonstrate the strongest commitment to ensuring that such funds are used to promote both public health and public safety;
“(B) demonstrate the active participation of each co-applicant in the administration of the collaboration program;
“(C) document, in the case of an application for a grant to be used in whole or in part to fund treatment services for adults or juveniles during periods of incarceration or detention, that treatment programs will be available to provide transition and reentry services for such individuals; and
“(D) have the support of both the Attorney General and the Secretary.”.
SEC. 2304. LAW ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE TO MENTALLY ILL OFFENDERS IMPROVEMENT GRANTS.
(a) In General.—Part HH of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797aa) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
“SEC. 2992. LAW ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE TO MENTALLY ILL OFFENDERS IMPROVEMENT GRANTS.
“(a) Authorization.—The Attorney General is authorized to make grants to States, units of local government, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations for the following purposes:
“(1) TRAINING PROGRAMS.—To provide for programs that offer law enforcement personnel specialized and comprehensive training in procedures to identify and respond appropriately to incidents in which the unique needs of individuals with mental illnesses are involved.
“(2) RECEIVING CENTERS.—To provide for the development of specialized receiving centers to assess individuals in the custody of law enforcement personnel for suicide risk and mental health and substance abuse treatment needs.
“(3) IMPROVED TECHNOLOGY.—To provide for computerized information systems (or to improve existing systems) to provide timely information to law enforcement personnel and criminal justice system personnel to improve the response of such respective personnel to mentally ill offenders.
“(4) COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS.—To provide for the establishment and expansion of cooperative efforts by criminal and juvenile justice agencies and mental health agencies to promote public safety through the use of effective intervention with respect to mentally ill offenders.
“(5) CAMPUS SECURITY PERSONNEL TRAINING.—To provide for programs that offer campus security personnel training in procedures to identify and respond appropriately to incidents in which the unique needs of individuals with mental illnesses are involved.
“(b) BJA Training Models.—For purposes of subsection (a)(1), the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall develop training models for training law enforcement personnel in procedures to identify and respond appropriately to incidents in which the unique needs of individuals with mental illnesses are involved, including suicide prevention.
“(c) Matching Funds.—The Federal share of funds for a program funded by a grant received under this section may not exceed 75 percent of the costs of the program unless the Attorney General waives, wholly or in part, such funding limitation. The non-Federal share of payments made for such a program may be made in cash or in-kind fairly evaluated, including planned equipment or services.
“(d) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Justice to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2014.”.
(b) Conforming Amendment.—Such part is further amended by amending the part heading to read as follows: “GRANTS TO IMPROVE TREATMENT OF OFFENDERS WITH MENTAL ILLNESSES”.
SEC. 2305. IMPROVING THE MENTAL HEALTH COURTS GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) Reauthorization Of The Mental Health Courts Grant Program.—Section 1001(a)(20) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793(a)(20)) is amended by striking “fiscal years 2001 through 2004” and inserting “fiscal years 2009 through 2014”.
(b) Additional Grant Uses Authorized.—Section 2201 of such title (42 U.S.C. 3796ii) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking “and” at the end;
(2) in paragraph (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
“(3) pretrial services and related treatment programs for offenders with mental illnesses; and
“(4) developing, implementing, or expanding programs that are alternatives to incarceration for offenders with mental illnesses.”.
SEC. 2306. EXAMINATION AND REPORT ON PREVALENCE OF MENTALLY ILL OFFENDERS.
(a) In General.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General shall examine and report on mental illness and the criminal justice system.
(2) SCOPE.—Congress encourages the Attorney General to specifically examine the following:
(A) POPULATIONS.—The rate of occurrence of serious mental illnesses in each of the following populations:
(i) Individuals, including juveniles, on probation.
(ii) Individuals, including juveniles, incarcerated in a jail.
(iii) Individuals, including juveniles, incarcerated in a prison.
(iv) Individuals, including juveniles, on parole.
(B) BENEFITS.—The percentage of individuals in each population described in subparagraph (A) who have—
(i) a serious mental illness; and
(ii) received disability benefits under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq. and 1381 et seq.).
(b) Report.—Not later than 36 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress the report described in subsection (a).
(c) Definitions.—In this section—
(1) the term “serious mental illness” means that an individual has, or at any time during the 1-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act had, a covered mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder; and
(2) the term “covered mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder”—
(A) means a diagnosable mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder of sufficient duration to meet diagnostic criteria specified within the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, or the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification equivalent of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition; and
(B) does not include a disorder that has a V code within the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, a substance use disorder, or a developmental disorder, unless that disorder cooccurs with another disorder described in subparagraph (A) and causes functional impairment which substantially interferes with or limits 1 or more major life activities.
(d) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for 2009.
Subtitle D—Effective Child Pornography Prosecution Act Of 2007
SEC. 7401. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Effective Child Pornography Prosecution Act of 2007”.
SEC. 7402. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Child pornography is estimated to be a multibillion dollar industry of global proportions, facilitated by the growth of the Internet.
(2) Data has shown that 83 percent of child pornography possessors had images of children younger than 12 years old, 39 percent had images of children younger than 6 years old, and 19 percent had images of children younger than 3 years old.
(3) Child pornography is a permanent record of a child’s abuse and the distribution of child pornography images revictimizes the child each time the image is viewed.
(4) Child pornography is readily available through virtually every Internet technology, including Web sites, email, instant messaging, Internet Relay Chat, newsgroups, bulletin boards, and peer-to-peer.
(5) The technological ease, lack of expense, and anonymity in obtaining and distributing child pornography over the Internet has resulted in an explosion in the multijurisdictional distribution of child pornography.
(6) The Internet is well recognized as a method of distributing goods and services across State lines.
(7) The transmission of child pornography using the Internet constitutes transportation in interstate commerce.
SEC. 7403. CLARIFYING BAN OF CHILD PORNOGRAPHY.
(a) In General.—Chapter 110 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in section 2251—
(A) in each of subsections (a), (b), and (d), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “be transported”;
(B) in each of subsections (a) and (b), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “been transported”;
(C) in subsection (c), by striking “computer” each place that term appears and inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce”; and
(D) in subsection (d), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “is transported”;
(2) in section 2251A(c), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “or transported”;
(3) in section 2252(a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “ships”;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “distributes, any visual depiction”; and
(ii) by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “depiction for distribution”;
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce” after “so shipped or transported”; and
(ii) by striking “by any means,”; and
(D) in paragraph (4), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “has been shipped or transported”; and
(4) in section 2252A(a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “ships”;
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce” after “mailed, or” each place it appears;
(C) in paragraph (3), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “mails, or” each place it appears;
(D) in each of paragraphs (4) and (5), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “has been mailed, or shipped or transported”; and
(E) in paragraph (6), by inserting “using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce or” after “has been mailed, shipped, or transported”.
(b) Affecting Interstate Commerce.—Chapter 110 of title 18, United States Code, is amended in each of sections 2251, 2251A, 2252, and 2252A, by striking “in interstate” each place it appears and inserting “in or affecting interstate”.
(c) Certain Activities Relating To Material Involving The Sexual Exploitation Of Minors.—Section 2252(a)(3)(B) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting “, shipped, or transported using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce” after “that has been mailed”.
(d) Certain Activities Relating To Material Constituting Or Containing Child Pornography.—Section 2252A(a)(6)(C) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking “or by transmitting” and all that follows through “by computer,” and inserting “or any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce,”.
Subtitle E—Enhancing The Effective Prosecution Of Child Pornography Act Of 2007
SEC. 2501. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Enhancing the Effective Prosecution of Child Pornography Act of 2007”.
SEC. 2502. MONEY LAUNDERING PREDICATE.
Section 1956(c)(7)(D) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting “section 2252A (relating to child pornography) where the child pornography contains a visual depiction of an actual minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct, section 2260 (production of certain child pornography for importation into the United States),” before “section 2280”.
SEC. 2503. KNOWINGLY ACCESSING CHILD PORNOGRAPHY WITH THE INTENT TO VIEW CHILD PORNOGRAPHY.
(a) Materials Involving Sexual Exploitation Of Minors.—Section 2252(a)(4) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “, or knowingly accesses with intent to view,” after “possesses”; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting “, or knowingly accesses with intent to view,” after “possesses”.
(b) Materials Constituting Or Containing Child Pornography.—Section 2252A(a)(5) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “, or knowingly accesses with intent to view,” after “possesses”; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting “, or knowingly accesses with intent to view,” after “possesses”.
Subtitle F—Drug Endangered Children Act Of 2007
SEC. 2601. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Drug Endangered Children Act of 2007”.
SEC. 2602. DRUG-ENDANGERED CHILDREN GRANT PROGRAM EXTENDED.
Section 755(c) of the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3797cc–2(c)) is amended by striking “fiscal years 2006 and 2007” and inserting “fiscal years 2008 and 2009”.
Subtitle G—Star-Spangled Banner And War Of 1812 Bicentennial Commission Act
SEC. 2701. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Star-Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission Act”.
SEC. 2702. STAR-SPANGLED BANNER AND WAR OF 1812 BICENTENNIAL COMMISSION.
(a) Findings.—Congress finds that—
(1) the War of 1812 served as a crucial test for the United States Constitution and the newly established democratic Government;
(2) vast regions of the new multiparty democracy, including the Chesapeake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico and the Niagara Frontier, were affected by the War of 1812 including the States of Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Maryland, Maine, Michigan, Missouri, Mississippi, New Jersey, North Carolina, New Hampshire, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Vermont, Wisconsin, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia;
(3) the British occupation of American territory along the Great Lakes and in other regions, the burning of Washington, DC, the American victories at Fort McHenry, New Orleans, and Plattsburgh, among other battles, had far reaching effects on American society;
(4) at the Battle of Baltimore, Francis Scott Key wrote the poem that celebrated the flag and later was titled “the Star-Spangled Banner”;
(5) the poem led to the establishment of the flag as an American icon and became the words of the national anthem of the United States in 1932; and
(6) it is in the national interest to provide for appropriate commemorative activities to maximize public understanding of the meaning of the War of 1812 in the history of the United States.
(b) Purposes.—The purposes of this section are to—
(1) establish the Star-Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Commemoration Commission;
(2) ensure a suitable national observance of the War of 1812 by complementing, cooperating with, and providing assistance to the programs and activities of the various States involved in the commemoration;
(3) encourage War of 1812 observances that provide an excellent visitor experience and beneficial interaction between visitors and the natural and cultural resources of the various War of 1812 sites;
(4) facilitate international involvement in the War of 1812 observances;
(5) support and facilitate marketing efforts for a commemorative coin, stamp, and related activities for the War of 1812 observances; and
(6) promote the protection of War of 1812 resources and assist in the appropriate development of heritage tourism and economic benefits to the United States.
(c) Definitions.—In this section:
(1) COMMEMORATION.—The term “commemoration” means the commemoration of the War of 1812.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term “Commission” means the Star-Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission established in subsection (d)(1).
(3) QUALIFIED CITIZEN.—The term “qualified citizen” means a citizen of the United States with an interest in, support for, and expertise appropriate to the commemoration.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.
(5) STATES.—The term “States”—
(A) means the States of Alabama, Kentucky, Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland, Vermont, Virginia, New York, Maine, Michigan, and Ohio; and
(B) includes agencies and entities of each State.
(d) Star-Spangled Banner And War Of 1812 Commemoration Commission.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established a commission to be known as the “Star-Spangled Banner and War of 1812 Bicentennial Commission”.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall be composed of 22 members, of whom—
(i) 11 members shall be qualified citizens appointed by the Secretary after consideration of nominations submitted by the Governors of Alabama, Kentucky, Indiana, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, New York, Ohio, Vermont, and Virginia;
(ii) 3 members shall be qualified citizens appointed by the Secretary after consideration of nominations submitted by the Mayors of the District of Columbia, the City of Baltimore, and the City of New Orleans;
(iii) 2 members shall be employees of the National Park Service, of whom—
(I) 1 shall be the Director of the National Park Service (or a designee); and
(II) 1 shall be an employee of the National Park Service having experience relevant to the commemoration;
(iv) 4 members shall be qualified citizens appointed by the Secretary with consideration of recommendations—
(I) 1 of which are submitted by the majority leader of the Senate;
(II) 1 of which are submitted by the minority leader of the Senate;
(III) 1 of which are submitted by the majority leader of the House of Representatives; and
(IV) 1 of which are submitted by the minority leader of the House of Representatives; and
(v) 2 members shall be appointed by the Secretary from among individuals with expertise in the history of the War of 1812.
(B) DATE OF APPOINTMENTS.—The appointment of a member of the Commission shall be made not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(3) TERM; VACANCIES.—
(A) TERM.—A member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.
(B) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the Commission—
(i) shall not affect the powers of the Commission; and
(ii) shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.
(4) VOTING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall act only on an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Commission.
(B) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
(5) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—
(A) SELECTION.—The Commission shall select a chairperson and a vice chairperson from among the members of the Commission.
(B) ABSENCE OF CHAIRPERSON.—The vice chairperson shall act as chairperson in the absence of the chairperson.
(6) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 60 days after the date on which all members of the Commission have been appointed and funds have been provided, the Commission shall hold the initial meeting of the Commission.
(7) MEETINGS.—Not less than twice a year, the Commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson or a majority of the members of the Commission.
(8) REMOVAL.—Any member who fails to attend 3 successive meetings of the Commission or who otherwise fails to participate substantively in the work of the Commission may be removed by the Secretary and the vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made. Members serve at the discretion of the Secretary.
(e) Duties.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall—
(A) plan, encourage, develop, execute, and coordinate programs, observances, and activities commemorating the historic events that preceded and are associated with the War of 1812;
(B) facilitate the commemoration throughout the United States and internationally;
(C) coordinate the activities of the Commission with State commemoration commissions, the National Park Service, the Department of Defense, and other appropriate Federal agencies;
(D) encourage civic, patriotic, historical, educational, religious, economic, tourism, and other organizations throughout the United States to organize and participate in the commemoration to expand the understanding and appreciation of the significance of the War of 1812;
(E) provide technical assistance to States, localities, units of the National Park System, and nonprofit organizations to further the commemoration and commemorative events;
(F) coordinate and facilitate scholarly research on, publication about, and interpretation of the people and events associated with the War of 1812;
(G) design, develop, and provide for the maintenance of an exhibit that will travel throughout the United States during the commemoration period to interpret events of the War of 1812 for the educational benefit of the citizens of the United States;
(H) ensure that War of 1812 commemorations provide a lasting legacy and long-term public benefit leading to protection of the natural and cultural resources associated with the War of 1812; and
(I) examine and review essential facilities and infrastructure at War of 1812 sites and identify possible improvements that could be made to enhance and maximize visitor experience at the sites.
(2) STRATEGIC PLAN; ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLANS.—The Commission shall prepare a strategic plan and annual performance plans for any activity carried out by the Commission under this section.
(3) REPORTS.—
(A) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Commission shall submit to Congress an annual report that contains a list of each gift, bequest, or devise to the Commission with a value of more than $250, together with the identity of the donor of each gift, bequest, or devise.
(B) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than September 30, 2015, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary and Congress a final report that includes—
(i) a summary of the activities of the Commission;
(ii) a final accounting of any funds received or expended by the Commission; and
(iii) the final disposition of any historically significant items acquired by the Commission and other properties not previously reported.
(f) Powers.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may—
(A) solicit, accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations of money, services, and real and personal property related to the commemoration in accordance with Department of the Interior and National Park Service written standards for accepting gifts from outside sources;
(B) appoint such advisory committees as the Commission determines to be necessary to carry out this section;
(C) authorize any member or employee of the Commission to take any action the Commission is authorized to take under this section;
(D) use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other agencies of the Federal Government; and
(E) make grants to communities, nonprofit, commemorative commissions or organizations, and research and scholarly organizations to develop programs and products to assist in researching, publishing, marketing, and distributing information relating to the commemoration.
(2) LEGAL AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out this section, the Commission may—
(i) procure supplies, services, and property; and
(ii) make or enter into contracts, leases, or other legal agreements.
(B) LENGTH.—Any contract, lease, or other legal agreement made or entered into by the Commission shall not extend beyond the date of termination of the Commission.
(3) INFORMATION FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may secure directly from a Federal agency such information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out this section.
(B) PROVISION OF INFORMATION.—On request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the head of the agency shall provide the information to the Commission in accordance with applicable laws.
(4) FACA NONAPPLICABILITY.—Section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
(5) NO EFFECT ON AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section supersedes the authority of the States or the National Park Service concerning the commemoration.
(g) Personnel Matters.—
(1) MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (3)(A), a member of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(B) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—A member of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.
(C) STATUS.—A member of the Commission, who is not otherwise a Federal employee, shall be considered a Federal employee only for purposes of the provisions of law related to ethics, conflicts of interest, corruption, and any other criminal or civil statute or regulation governing the conduct of Federal employees.
(2) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND OTHER STAFF.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Chairperson of the Commission may, without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service and termination of employees (including regulations), appoint and terminate an executive director, subject to confirmation by the Commission, and appoint and terminate such other additional personnel as are necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission.
(B) STATUS.—The Executive Director and other staff appointed under this paragraph shall be considered Federal employees under section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding the requirements of such section.
(C) CONFIRMATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.—The employment of an executive director shall be subject to confirmation by the Commission.
(D) COMPENSATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii), the Chairperson of the Commission may fix the compensation of the executive director and other personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates.
(ii) MAXIMUM RATE OF PAY.—The rate of basic pay for the executive director and other personnel shall not exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
(3) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES.—
(A) FEDERAL EMPLOYEES.—
(i) SERVICE ON COMMISSION.—A member of the Commission who is an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall serve without compensation in addition to the compensation received for the services of the member as an officer or employee of the Federal Government.
(ii) DETAIL.—At the request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, any of the personnel of the agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission under this section.
(iii) CIVIL SERVICE STATUS.—Notwithstanding any other provisions in this subsection, Federal employees who serve on the Commission, are detailed to the Commission, or otherwise provide services under this section, shall continue to be Federal employees for the purpose of any law specific to Federal employees, without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.
(B) STATE EMPLOYEES.—The Commission may—
(i) accept the services of personnel detailed from States (including subdivisions of States) under subchapter VI of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code; and
(ii) reimburse States for services of detailed personnel.
(4) MEMBERS OF ADVISORY COMMITTEES.—Members of advisory committees appointed under subsection (f)(1)(B)—
(A) shall not be considered employees of the Federal Government by reason of service on the committees for the purpose of any law specific to Federal employees, except for the purposes of chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code, relating to conflicts of interest; and
(B) may be paid travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the committee.
(5) VOLUNTEER AND UNCOMPENSATED SERVICES.—Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission may accept and use such voluntary and uncompensated services as the Commission determines necessary.
(6) SUPPORT SERVICES.—The Director of the National Park Service shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support services as the Commission may request.
(7) PROCUREMENT OF TEMPORARY AND INTERMITTENT SERVICES.—The Chairperson of the Commission may employ experts and consultants on a temporary or intermittent basis in accordance with section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals that do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that title. Such personnel shall be considered Federal employees under section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding the requirements of such section.
(h) Authorization Of Appropriations.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section not to exceed $500,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2015.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Amounts appropriated under this subsection for any fiscal year shall remain available until December 31, 2015.
(i) Termination Of Commission.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall terminate on December 31, 2015.
(2) TRANSFER OF MATERIALS.—Not later than the date of termination, the Commission shall transfer any documents, materials, books, manuscripts, miscellaneous printed matter, memorabilia, relics, exhibits, and any materials donated to the Commission that relate to the War of 1812, to Fort McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine.
(3) DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.—Any funds held by the Commission on the date of termination shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
(4) ANNUAL AUDIT.—The Inspector General of the Department of the Interior shall perform an annual audit of the Commission, shall make the results of the audit available to the public, and shall transmit such results to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate.
Subtitle H—PROTECT Our Children Act Of 2008
SEC. 2801. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the“ Providing Resources, Officers, and Technology To Eradicate Cyber Threats to Our Children Act of 2008” or the “PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008”.
SEC. 2802. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) CHILD EXPLOITATION.—The term “child exploitation” means any conduct, attempted conduct, or conspiracy to engage in conduct involving a minor that violates section 1591, chapter 109A, chapter 110, and chapter 117 of title 18, United States Code, or any sexual activity involving a minor for which any person can be charged with a criminal offense.
(2) CHILD OBSCENITY.—The term “child obscenity” means any visual depiction proscribed by section 1466A of title 18, United States Code.
(3) MINOR.—The term “minor” means any person under the age of 18 years.
(4) SEXUALLY EXPLICIT CONDUCT.—The term “sexually explicit conduct” has the meaning given such term in section 2256 of title 18, United States Code.
PART I—NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR CHILD EXPLOITATION PREVENTION AND INTERDICTION
SEC. 2811. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR CHILD EXPLOITATION PREVENTION AND INTERDICTION.
(a) In General.—The Attorney General of the United States shall create and implement a National Strategy for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction.
(b) Timing.—Not later than February 1 of each year, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress the National Strategy established under subsection (a).
(c) Required Contents Of National Strategy.—The National Strategy established under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) Comprehensive long-range, goals for reducing child exploitation.
(2) Annual measurable objectives and specific targets to accomplish long-term, quantifiable goals that the Attorney General determines may be achieved during each year beginning on the date when the National Strategy is submitted.
(3) Annual budget priorities and Federal efforts dedicated to combating child exploitation, including resources dedicated to Internet Crimes Against Children task forces, Project Safe Childhood, FBI Innocent Images Initiative, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, regional forensic computer labs, Internet Safety programs, and all other entities whose goal or mission is to combat the exploitation of children that receive Federal support.
(4) A 5-year projection for program and budget goals and priorities.
(5) A review of the policies and work of the Department of Justice related to the prevention and investigation of child exploitation crimes, including efforts at the Office of Justice Programs, the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice, the Executive Office of United States Attorneys, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Attorney General, the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, the Office of Legal Policy, and any other agency or bureau of the Department of Justice whose activities relate to child exploitation.
(6) A description of the Department’s efforts to coordinate with international, State, local, tribal law enforcement, and private sector entities on child exploitation prevention and interdiction efforts.
(7) Plans for interagency coordination regarding the prevention, investigation, and apprehension of individuals exploiting children, including cooperation and collaboration with—
(A) Immigration and Customs Enforcement;
(B) the United States Postal Inspection Service;
(C) the Department of State;
(D) the Department of Commerce;
(E) the Department of Education;
(F) the Department of Health and Human Services; and
(G) other appropriate Federal agencies.
(8) A review of the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program, including—
(A) the number of ICAC task forces and location of each ICAC task force;
(B) the number of trained personnel at each ICAC task force;
(C) the amount of Federal grants awarded to each ICAC task force;
(D) an assessment of the Federal, State, and local cooperation in each task force, including—
(i) the number of arrests made by each task force;
(ii) the number of criminal referrals to United States attorneys for prosecution;
(iii) the number of prosecutions and convictions from the referrals made under clause (ii);
(iv) the number, if available, of local prosecutions and convictions based on ICAC task force investigations; and
(v) any other information demonstrating the level of Federal, State, and local coordination and cooperation, as such information is to be determined by the Attorney General;
(E) an assessment of the training opportunities and technical assistance available to support ICAC task force grantees; and
(F) an assessment of the success of the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program at leveraging State and local resources and matching funds.
(9) An assessment of the technical assistance and support available for Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies, in the prevention, investigation, and prosecution of child exploitation crimes.
(10) A review of the backlog of forensic analysis for child exploitation cases at each FBI Regional Forensic lab and an estimate of the backlog at State and local labs.
(11) Plans for reducing the forensic backlog described in paragraph (10), if any, at Federal, State and local forensic labs.
(12) A review of the Federal programs related to child exploitation prevention and education, including those related to Internet safety, including efforts by the private sector and nonprofit entities, or any other initiatives, that have proven successful in promoting child safety and Internet safety.
(13) An assessment of the future trends, challenges, and opportunities, including new technologies, that will impact Federal, State, local, and tribal efforts to combat child exploitation.
(14) Plans for liaisons with the judicial branches of the Federal and State governments on matters relating to child exploitation.
(15) An assessment of Federal investigative and prosecution activity relating to reported incidents of child exploitation crimes, which shall include a number of factors, including—
(A) the number of high-priority suspects (identified because of the volume of suspected criminal activity or because of the danger to the community or a potential victim) who were investigated and prosecuted;
(B) the number of investigations, arrests, prosecutions and convictions for a crime of child exploitation; and
(C) the average sentence imposed and statutory maximum for each crime of child exploitation.
(16) A review of all available statistical data indicating the overall magnitude of child pornography trafficking in the United States and internationally, including—
(A) the number of computers or computer users, foreign and domestic, observed engaging in, or suspected by law enforcement agencies and other sources of engaging in, peer-to-peer file sharing of child pornography;
(B) the number of computers or computer users, foreign and domestic, observed engaging in, or suspected by law enforcement agencies and other reporting sources of engaging in, buying and selling, or other commercial activity related to child pornography;
(C) the number of computers or computer users, foreign and domestic, observed engaging in, or suspected by law enforcement agencies and other sources of engaging in, all other forms of activity related to child pornography;
(D) the number of tips or other statistical data from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children’s CybertTipline and other data indicating the magnitude of child pornography trafficking; and
(E) any other statistical data indicating the type, nature, and extent of child exploitation crime in the United States and abroad.
(17) Copies of recent relevant research and studies related to child exploitation, including—
(A) studies related to the link between possession or trafficking of child pornography and actual abuse of a child;
(B) studies related to establishing a link between the types of files being viewed or shared and the type of illegal activity; and
(C) any other research, studies, and available information related to child exploitation.
(18) A review of the extent of cooperation, coordination, and mutual support between private sector and other entities and organizations and Federal agencies, including the involvement of States, local and tribal government agencies to the extent Federal programs are involved.
(19) The results of the Project Safe Childhood Conference or other conferences or meetings convened by the Department of Justice related to combating child exploitation
(d) Appointment Of High-Level Official.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be created in the Office of Legal Policy of the Department of Justice the position of Special Assistant to the Assistant Attorney General for Child Exploitation and Interdiction, whose duties shall include coordinating the development of the National Strategy established under subsection (a).
(2) DUTIES.—The duties of the official designated under paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) acting as a liaison with all Federal agencies regarding the development of the National Strategy;
(B) working to ensure that there is proper coordination among agencies in developing the National Strategy;
(C) being knowledgeable about budget priorities and familiar with all efforts within the Department of Justice and the FBI related to child exploitation prevention and interdiction; and
(D) communicating the National Strategy to Congress and being available to answer questions related to the strategy at congressional hearings, if requested by committees of appropriate jurisdictions, on the contents of the National Strategy and progress of the Department of Justice in implementing the National Strategy.
SEC. 2812. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL ICAC TASK FORCE PROGRAM.
(a) Establishment.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established within the Department of Justice, under the general authority of the Attorney General, a National Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force Program (hereinafter in this title referred to as the “ICAC Task Force Program”), which shall consist of a national program of State and local law enforcement task forces dedicated to developing effective responses to online enticement of children by sexual predators, child exploitation, and child obscenity and pornography cases.
(2) INTENT OF CONGRESS.—It is the purpose and intent of Congress that the ICAC Task Force Program established under paragraph (1) is intended to continue the ICAC Task Force Program authorized under title I of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, and funded under title IV of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974.
(b) National Program.—
(1) STATE REPRESENTATION.—The ICAC Task Force Program established under subsection (a) shall include at least 1 ICAC task force in each State.
(2) CAPACITY AND CONTINUITY OF INVESTIGATIONS.—In order to maintain established capacity and continuity of investigations and prosecutions of child exploitation cases, the Attorney General, shall, in establishing the ICAC Task Force Program under subsection (a) consult with and consider all 59 task forces in existence on the date of enactment of this Act. The Attorney General shall include all existing ICAC task forces in the ICAC Task Force Program, unless the Attorney General makes a determination that an existing ICAC does not have a proven track record of success.
(3) ONGOING REVIEW.—The Attorney General shall—
(A) conduct periodic reviews of the effectiveness of each ICAC task force established under this section; and
(B) have the discretion to establish a new task force if the Attorney General determines that such decision will enhance the effectiveness of combating child exploitation provided that the Attorney General notifies Congress in advance of any such decision and that each state maintains at least 1 ICAC task force at all times.
(4) TRAINING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General may establish national training programs to support the mission of the ICAC task forces, including the effective use of the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System.
(B) LIMITATION.—In establishing training courses under this paragraph, the Attorney General may not award any one entity other than a law enforcement agency more than $2,000,000 annually to establish and conduct training courses for ICAC task force members and other law enforcement officials.
(C) REVIEW.—The Attorney General shall—
(i) conduct periodic reviews of the effectiveness of each training session authorized by this paragraph; and
(ii) consider outside reports related to the effective use of Federal funding in making future grant awards for training.
SEC. 2813. PURPOSE OF ICAC TASK FORCES.
The ICAC Task Force Program, and each State or local ICAC task force that is part of the national program of task forces, shall be dedicated toward—
(1) increasing the investigative capabilities of State and local law enforcement officers in the detection, investigation, and apprehension of Internet crimes against children offenses or offenders, including technology-facilitated child exploitation offenses;
(2) conducting proactive and reactive Internet crimes against children investigations;
(3) providing training and technical assistance to ICAC task forces and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in the areas of investigations, forensics, prosecution, community outreach, and capacity-building, using recognized experts to assist in the development and delivery of training programs;
(4) increasing the number of Internet crimes against children offenses being investigated and prosecuted in both Federal and State courts;
(5) creating a multiagency task force response to Internet crimes against children offenses within each State;
(6) participating in the Department of Justice’s Project Safe Childhood initiative, the purpose of which is to combat technology-facilitated sexual exploitation crimes against children;
(7) enhancing nationwide responses to Internet crimes against children offenses, including assisting other ICAC task forces, as well as other Federal, State, and local agencies with Internet crimes against children investigations and prosecutions;
(8) developing and delivering Internet crimes against children public awareness and prevention programs; and
(9) participating in such other activities, both proactive and reactive, that will enhance investigations and prosecutions of Internet crimes against children.
SEC. 2814. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF TASK FORCES.
Each State or local ICAC task force that is part of the national program of task forces shall—
(1) consist of State and local investigators, prosecutors, forensic specialists, and education specialists who are dedicated to addressing the goals of such task force;
(2) work consistently toward achieving the purposes described in section 2813;
(3) engage in proactive investigations, forensic examinations, and effective prosecutions of Internet crimes against children;
(4) provide forensic, preventive, and investigative assistance to parents, educators, prosecutors, law enforcement, and others concerned with Internet crimes against children;
(5) develop multijurisdictional, multiagency responses and partnerships to Internet crimes against children offenses through ongoing informational, administrative, and technological support to other State and local law enforcement agencies, as a means for such agencies to acquire the necessary knowledge, personnel, and specialized equipment to investigate and prosecute such offenses;
(6) participate in nationally coordinated investigations in any case in which the Attorney General determines such participation to be necessary, as permitted by the available resources of such task force;
(7) establish or adopt investigative and prosecution standards, consistent with established norms, to which such task force shall comply;
(8) investigate, and seek prosecution on, tips related to Internet crimes against children, including tips from Operation Fairplay, the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System established in section 2815, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children’s CyberTipline, ICAC task forces, and other Federal, State, and local agencies, with priority being given to investigative leads that indicate the possibility of identifying or rescuing child victims, including investigative leads that indicate a likelihood of seriousness of offense or dangerousness to the community;
(9) develop procedures for handling seized evidence;
(10) maintain—
(A) such reports and records as are required under this part; and
(B) such other reports and records as determined by the Attorney General; and
(11) seek to comply with national standards regarding the investigation and prosecution of Internet crimes against children, as set forth by the Attorney General, to the extent such standards are consistent with the law of the State where the task force is located.
SEC. 2815. NATIONAL INTERNET CRIMES AGAINST CHILDREN DATA SYSTEM.
(a) In General.—The Attorney General shall establish, consistent with all existing Federal laws relating to the protection of privacy, a National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System. The system shall not be used to search for or obtain any information that does not involve the use of the Internet to post or traffic images of child exploitation.
(b) Purpose Of System.—The National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System established under subsection (a) shall be dedicated to assisting and supporting credentialed law enforcement agencies authorized to investigate child exploitation in accordance with Federal, State, local, and tribal laws, including by providing assistance and support to—
(1) Federal agencies investigating and prosecuting child exploitation;
(2) the ICAC Task Force Program established under section 2812;
(3) State, local, and tribal agencies investigating and prosecuting child exploitation; and
(4) foreign or international law enforcement agencies, subject to approval by the Attorney General.
(c) Cyber Safe Deconfliction And Information Sharing.—The National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System established under subsection (a)—
(1) shall be housed and maintained within the Department of Justice or a credentialed law enforcement agency;
(2) shall be made available for a nominal charge to support credentialed law enforcement agencies in accordance with subsection (b); and
(3) shall—
(A) allow Federal, State, local, and tribal agencies and ICAC task forces investigating and prosecuting child exploitation to contribute and access data for use in resolving case conflicts;
(B) provide, directly or in partnership with a credentialed law enforcement agency, a dynamic undercover infrastructure to facilitate online law enforcement investigations of child exploitation;
(C) facilitate the development of essential software and network capability for law enforcement participants; and
(D) provide software or direct hosting and support for online investigations of child exploitation activities, or, in the alternative, provide users with a secure connection to an alternative system that provides such capabilities, provided that the system is hosted within a governmental agency or a credentialed law enforcement agency.
(d) Collection And Reporting Of Data.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System established under subsection (a) shall ensure the following:
(A) REAL-TIME REPORTING.—All child exploitation cases involving local child victims that are reasonably detectable using available software and data are, immediately upon their detection, made available to participating law enforcement agencies.
(B) HIGH-PRIORITY SUSPECTS.—Every 30 days, at minimum, the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System shall—
(i) identify high-priority suspects, as such suspects are determined by the volume of suspected criminal activity or other indicators of seriousness of offense or dangerousness to the community or a potential local victim; and
(ii) report all such identified high-priority suspects to participating law enforcement agencies.
(C) ANNUAL REPORTS.—Any statistical data indicating the overall magnitude of child pornography trafficking and child exploitation in the United States and internationally is made available and included in the National Strategy, as is required under section 2811(c)(16).
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit the ability of participating law enforcement agencies to disseminate investigative leads or statistical information in accordance with State and local laws.
(e) Mandatory Requirements Of Network.—The National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System established under subsection (a) shall develop, deploy, and maintain an integrated technology and training program that provides—
(1) a secure, online system for Federal law enforcement agencies, ICAC task forces, and other State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies for use in resolving case conflicts, as provided in subsection (c);
(2) a secure system enabling online communication and collaboration by Federal law enforcement agencies, ICAC task forces, and other State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies regarding ongoing investigations, investigatory techniques, best practices, and any other relevant news and professional information;
(3) a secure online data storage and analysis system for use by Federal law enforcement agencies, ICAC task forces, and other State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies;
(4) secure connections or interaction with State and local law enforcement computer networks, consistent with reasonable and established security protocols and guidelines;
(5) guidelines for use of the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System by Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies and ICAC task forces; and
(6) training and technical assistance on the use of the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System by Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies and ICAC task forces.
(f) National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System Steering Committee.—The Attorney General shall establish a National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System Steering Committee to provide guidance to the Network relating to the program under subsection (e), and to assist in the development of strategic plans for the System. The Steering Committee shall consist of 10 members with expertise in child exploitation prevention and interdiction prosecution, investigation, or prevention, including—
(1) 3 representatives elected by the local directors of the ICAC task forces, such representatives shall represent different geographic regions of the country;
(2) 1 representative of the Department of Justice Office of Information Services;
(3) 1 representative from Operation Fairplay, currently hosted at the Wyoming Office of the Attorney General;
(4) 1 representative from the law enforcement agency having primary responsibility for hosting and maintaining the National Internet Crimes Against Children Data System;
(5) 1 representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Innocent Images National Initiative or Regional Computer Forensic Lab program;
(6) 1 representative of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Cyber Crimes Center;
(7) 1 representative of the United States Postal Inspection Service; and
(8) 1 representative of the Department of Justice.
(g) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2016, $2,000,000 to carry out the provisions of this section.
(h) Rule Of Construction.—Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize any activity that is inconsistent with any Federal law, regulation, or constitutional constraint.
SEC. 2816. ICAC GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) Establishment.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General is authorized to award grants to State and local ICAC task forces to assist in carrying out the duties and functions described under section 2814.
(2) FORMULA GRANTS.—
(A) DEVELOPMENT OF FORMULA.—At least 75 percent of the total funds appropriated to carry out this section shall be available to award or otherwise distribute grants pursuant to a funding formula established by the Attorney General in accordance with the requirements in subparagraph (B).
(B) FORMULA REQUIREMENTS.—Any formula established by the Attorney General under subparagraph (A) shall—
(i) ensure that each State or local ICAC task force shall, at a minimum, receive an amount equal to 0.5 percent of the funds available to award or otherwise distribute grants under subparagraph (A); and
(ii) take into consideration the following factors:
(I) The population of each State, as determined by the most recent decennial census performed by the Bureau of the Census.
(II) The number of investigative leads within the applicant’s jurisdiction generated by Operation Fairplay, the ICAC Data Network, the CyberTipline, and other sources.
(III) The number of criminal cases related to Internet crimes against children referred to a task force for Federal, State, or local prosecution.
(IV) The number of successful prosecutions of child exploitation cases by a task force.
(V) The amount of training, technical assistance, and public education or outreach by a task force related to the prevention, investigation, or prosecution of child exploitation offenses.
(VI) Such other criteria as the Attorney General determines demonstrate the level of need for additional resources by a task force.
(3) DISTRIBUTION OF REMAINING FUNDS BASED ON NEED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any funds remaining from the total funds appropriated to carry out this section after funds have been made available to award or otherwise distribute formula grants under paragraph (2)(A) shall be distributed to State and local ICAC task forces based upon need, as set forth by criteria established by the Attorney General. Such criteria shall include the factors under paragraph (2)(B)(ii).
(B) MATCHING REQUIREMENT.—A State or local ICAC task force shall contribute matching non-Federal funds in an amount equal to not less than 25 percent of the amount of funds received by the State or local ICAC task force under subparagraph (A). A State or local ICAC task force that is not able or willing to contribute matching funds in accordance with this subparagraph shall not be eligible for funds under subparagraph (A).
(C) WAIVER.—The Attorney General may waive, in whole or in part, the matching requirement under subparagraph (B) if the State or local ICAC task force demonstrates good cause or financial hardship.
(b) Application.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each State or local ICAC task force seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each application submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—
(A) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and
(B) provide such additional assurances as the Attorney General determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part.
(c) Allowable Uses.—Grants awarded under this section may be used to—
(1) hire personnel, investigators, prosecutors, education specialists, and forensic specialists;
(2) establish and support forensic laboratories utilized in Internet crimes against children investigations;
(3) support investigations and prosecutions of Internet crimes against children;
(4) conduct and assist with education programs to help children and parents protect themselves from Internet predators;
(5) conduct and attend training sessions related to successful investigations and prosecutions of Internet crimes against children; and
(6) fund any other activities directly related to preventing, investigating, or prosecuting Internet crimes against children.
(d) Reporting Requirements.—
(1) ICAC REPORTS.—To measure the results of the activities funded by grants under this section, and to assist the Attorney General in complying with the Government Performance and Results Act (Public Law 103–62; 107 Stat. 285), each State or local ICAC task force receiving a grant under this section shall, on an annual basis, submit a report to the Attorney General that sets forth the following:
(A) Staffing levels of the task force, including the number of investigators, prosecutors, education specialists, and forensic specialists dedicated to investigating and prosecuting Internet crimes against children.
(B) Investigation and prosecution performance measures of the task force, including—
(i) the number of investigations initiated related to Internet crimes against children;
(ii) the number of arrests related to Internet crimes against children; and
(iii) the number of prosecutions for Internet crimes against children, including—
(I) whether the prosecution resulted in a conviction for such crime; and
(II) the sentence and the statutory maximum for such crime under State law.
(C) The number of referrals made by the task force to the United States Attorneys office, including whether the referral was accepted by the United States Attorney.
(D) Statistics that account for the disposition of investigations that do not result in arrests or prosecutions, such as referrals to other law enforcement.
(E) The number of investigative technical assistance sessions that the task force provided to nonmember law enforcement agencies.
(F) The number of computer forensic examinations that the task force completed.
(G) The number of law enforcement agencies participating in Internet crimes against children program standards established by the task force.
(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit a report to Congress on—
(A) the progress of the development of the ICAC Task Force Program established under section 2812; and
(B) the number of Federal and State investigations, prosecutions, and convictions in the prior 12-month period related to child exploitation.
SEC. 2817. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) In General.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part—
(1) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
(2) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
(3) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;
(4) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2012; and
(5) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 2013.
(b) Availability.—Funds appropriated under subsection (a) shall remain available until expended.
PART II—ADDITIONAL MEASURES TO COMBAT CHILD EXPLOITATION
SEC. 2821. ADDITIONAL REGIONAL COMPUTER FORENSIC LABS.
(a) Additional Resources.—The Attorney General shall establish additional computer forensic capacity to address the current backlog for computer forensics, including for child exploitation investigations. The Attorney General may utilize funds under this part to increase capacity at existing regional forensic laboratories or to add laboratories under the Regional Computer Forensic Laboratories Program operated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(b) Purpose Of New Resources.—The additional forensic capacity established by resources provided under this section shall be dedicated to assist Federal agencies, State and local Internet Crimes Against Children task forces, and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in preventing, investigating, and prosecuting Internet crimes against children.
(c) New Computer Forensic Labs.—If the Attorney General determines that new regional computer forensic laboratories are required under subsection (a) to best address existing backlogs, such new laboratories shall be established pursuant to subsection (d).
(d) Location Of New Labs.—The location of any new regional computer forensic laboratories under this section shall be determined by the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Regional Computer Forensic Laboratory National Steering Committee, and other relevant stakeholders.
(e) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and every year thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit a report to the Congress on how the funds appropriated under this section were utilized.
(f) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 2009 through 2013, $2,000,000 to carry out the provisions of this section.
PART III—EFFECTIVE CHILD PORNOGRAPHY PROSECUTION
SEC. 2831. PROHIBIT THE BROADCAST OF LIVE IMAGES OF CHILD ABUSE.
Section 2251 of title 18, United States Code is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by—
(A) inserting “or for the purpose of transmitting a live visual depiction of such conduct” after “for the purpose of producing any visual depiction of such conduct”;
(B) inserting “or transmitted” after “if such person knows or has reason to know that such visual depiction will be transported”;
(C) inserting “or transmitted” after “if that visual depiction was produced”; and
(D) inserting “or transmitted” after “has actually been transported”; and
(2) in subsection (b), by—
(A) inserting “or for the purpose of transmitting a live visual depiction of such conduct” after “for the purpose of producing any visual depiction of such conduct”;
(B) inserting “or transmitted” after “person knows or has reason to know that such visual depiction will be transported”;
(C) inserting “or transmitted” after “if that visual depiction was produced”; and
(D) inserting “or transmitted” after “has actually been transported”.
SEC. 2832. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2256 OF TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE.
Section 2256(5) of title 18, United States Code is amended by—
(1) striking “and” before “data”;
(2) after “visual image” by inserting “, and data which is capable of conversion into a visual image that has been transmitted by any means, whether or not stored in a permanent format”.
SEC. 2833. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2260 OF TITLE 18, UNITED STATES CODE.
Section 2260(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by—
(1) inserting “or for the purpose of transmitting a live visual depiction of such conduct” after “for the purpose of producing any visual depiction of such conduct”; and
(2) inserting “or transmitted” after “imported”.
SEC. 2834. PROHIBITING THE ADAPTATION OR MODIFICATION OF AN IMAGE OF AN IDENTIFIABLE MINOR TO PRODUCE CHILD PORNOGRAPHY.
(a) Offense.—Subsection (a) of section 2252A of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5), by striking “; or” at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and inserting “; or”; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
“(7) in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, knowingly modifies, with intent to distribute, a visual depiction of an identifiable minor so that the depiction becomes child pornography.”.
(b) Punishment.—Subsection (b) of section 2252A of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(3) Whoever violates, or attempts or conspires to violate, subsection (a)(7) shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both.”.
PART IV—NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE STUDY OF RISK FACTORS
SEC. 2841. NIJ STUDY OF RISK FACTORS FOR ASSESSING DANGEROUSNESS.
(a) In General.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the National Institute of Justice shall prepare a report to identify investigative factors that reliably indicate whether a subject of an online child exploitation investigation poses a high risk of harm to children. Such a report shall be prepared in consultation and coordination with Federal law enforcement agencies, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, Operation Fairplay at the Wyoming Attorney General's Office, the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, and other State and local law enforcement.
(b) Contents Of Analysis.—The report required by subsection (a) shall include a thorough analysis of potential investigative factors in on-line child exploitation cases and an appropriate examination of investigative data from prior prosecutions and case files of identified child victims.
(c) Report To Congress.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the National Institute of Justice shall submit a report to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees that includes the findings of the study required by this section and makes recommendations on technological tools and law enforcement procedures to help investigators prioritize scarce resources to those cases where there is actual hands-on abuse by the suspect.
(d) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 to the National Institute of Justice to conduct the study required under this section.
TITLE III—ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROVSIONS
Subtitle A—Captive Primate Safety Act
SEC. 3001. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Captive Primate Safety Act”.
SEC. 3002. ADDITION OF NONHUMAN PRIMATES TO DEFINITION OF PROHIBITED WILDLIFE SPECIES.
Section 2(g) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371(g)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end “or any nonhuman primate”.
SEC. 3003. CAPTIVE WILDLIFE AMENDMENTS.
(a) Prohibited Acts.—Section 3 of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3372) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting “or” after the semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking “; or” and inserting a semicolon; and
(iii) by striking subparagraph (C); and
(B) in paragraph (4), by inserting “or subsection (e)” before the period; and
(2) in subsection (e)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6) respectively;
(B) by striking “(e)” and all that follows through “Subsection (a)(2)(C) does not apply” in paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
“(e) Captive Wildlife Offense.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—It is unlawful for any person to import, export, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase in interstate or foreign commerce any live animal of any prohibited wildlife species.
“(2) LIMITATION ON APPLICATION.—This subsection—
“(A) does not apply to a person transporting a nonhuman primate to or from a veterinarian who is licensed to practice veterinary medicine within the United States, solely for the purpose of providing veterinary care to the nonhuman primate, if—
“(i) the person transporting the nonhuman primate carries written documentation issued by the veterinarian, including the appointment date and location;
“(ii) the nonhuman primate is transported in a secure enclosure appropriate for that species of primate;
“(iii) the nonhuman primate has no contact with any other animals or members of the public, other than the veterinarian and other authorized medical personnel providing veterinary care; and
“(iv) such transportation and provision of veterinary care is in accordance with all otherwise applicable State and local laws, regulations, permits, and health certificates;
“(B) does not apply to a person transporting a nonhuman primate to a legally designated caregiver for the nonhuman primate as a result of the death of the preceding owner of the nonhuman primate, if—
“(i) the person transporting the nonhuman primate is carrying legal documentation to support the need for transporting the nonhuman primate to the legally designated caregiver;
“(ii) the nonhuman primate is transported in a secure enclosure appropriate for the species;
“(iii) the nonhuman primate has no contact with any other animals or members of the public while being transported to the legally designated caregiver; and
“(iv) all applicable State and local restrictions on such transport, and all applicable State and local requirements for permits or health certificates, are complied with;
“(C) does not apply to a person transporting a nonhuman primate solely for the purpose of assisting an individual who is permanently disabled with a severe mobility impairment, if—
“(i) the nonhuman primate is a single animal of the genus Cebus;
“(ii) the nonhuman primate was obtained from, and trained at, a licensed nonprofit organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 the nonprofit tax status of which was obtained—
“(I) before July 18, 2008; and
“(II) on the basis that the mission of the organization is to improve the quality of life of severely mobility-impaired individuals;
“(iii) the person transporting the nonhuman primate is a specially trained employee or agent of a nonprofit organization described in clause (ii) that is transporting the nonhuman primate to or from a designated individual who is permanently disabled with a severe mobility impairment, or to or from a licensed foster care home providing specialty training of the nonhuman primate solely for purposes of assisting an individual who is permanently disabled with severe mobility impairment;
“(iv) the person transporting the nonhuman primate carries documentation from the applicable nonprofit organization that includes the name of the designated individual referred to in clause (iii);
“(v) the nonhuman primate is transported in a secure enclosure that is appropriate for that species;
“(vi) the nonhuman primate has no contact with any animal or member of the public, other than the designated individual referred to in clause (iii); and
“(vii) the transportation of the nonhuman primate is in compliance with—
“(I) all applicable State and local restrictions regarding the transport; and
“(II) all applicable State and local requirements regarding permits or health certificates; and
“(D) does not apply”;
(C) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A))—
(i) by striking “a” before “prohibited” and inserting “any”;
(ii) by striking “(3)” and inserting “(4)”; and
(iii) by striking “(2)” and inserting “(3)”;
(D) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A))—
(i) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) in clauses (ii) and (iii), by striking “animals listed in section 2(g)” each place it appears and inserting “prohibited wildlife species”; and
(II) in clause (iv), by striking “animals” and inserting “prohibited wildlife species”; and
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking “animal” each place it appears and inserting “prohibited wildlife species”;
(E) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A)), by striking “(2)” and inserting “(3)”;
(F) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A)), by striking “subsection (a)(2)(C)” and inserting “this subsection”; and
(G) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A)) the following:
“(7) APPLICATION.—This subsection shall apply beginning on the effective date of regulations promulgated under this subsection.”.
(b) Civil Penalties.—Section 4(a) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3373(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by inserting “(e),” after “subsections (b), (d),” ; and
(2) in paragraph (1), by inserting “, (e),” after “subsection (d)”.
(c) Criminal Penalties.—Section 4(d) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3373(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B) and in the first sentence of paragraph (2), by inserting “(e),” after “subsections (b), (d),” each place it appears; and
(2) in paragraph (3), by inserting “, (e),” after “subsection (d)” .
SEC. 3004. APPLICABILITY PROVISION AMENDMENT.
Section 3 of the Captive Wildlife Safety Act (117 Stat. 2871; Public Law 108–191) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking “(a) In General.—Section 3” and inserting “Section 3”; and
(2) by striking subsection (b).
SEC. 3005. REGULATIONS.
Section 7(a) of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3376(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
“(3) The Secretary shall, in consultation with other relevant Federal and State agencies, issue regulations to implement section 3(e).”.
SEC. 3006. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
In addition to such other amounts as are authorized to carry out the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq.), there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2009 to hire additional law enforcement personnel of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to enforce that Act.
Subtitle B—Chesapeake Bay Gateways And Watertrails Network Continuing Authorization Act
SEC. 3011. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Chesapeake Bay Gateways and Watertrails Network Continuing Authorization Act”.
SEC. 3012. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 502 of the Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 105–312) is amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
“(c) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.”.
Subtitle C—Beach Protection Act Of 2008
SEC. 3021. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Beach Protection Act of 2008”.
SEC. 3022. BEACHWATER POLLUTION SOURCE IDENTIFICATION AND PREVENTION.
(a) In General.—Section 406 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346) is amended in each of subsections (b), (c), (d), (g), and (h) by striking “monitoring and notification” each place it appears and inserting “monitoring, public notification, source tracking, and sanitary surveys to address the identified sources of beachwater pollution”.
(b) Authorization Of Appropriations.—Section 406(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(i)) is amended by striking “$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 through 2005” and inserting “$60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2013”.
SEC. 3023. FUNDING FOR BEACHES ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND COASTAL HEALTH ACT.
Section 8 of the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 877) is amended by striking “2005” and inserting “2013”.
SEC. 3024. STATE REPORTS.
Section 406(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(b)(3)(A)(ii)) is amended by inserting “and all environmental agencies of the State with authority to prevent or treat sources of beachwater pollution” after “public”.
SEC. 3025. USE OF RAPID TESTING METHODS.
(a) Contents Of State And Local Government Programs.—Section 406(c)(4)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(c)(4)(A)) is amended by inserting “, including the use of a rapid testing method after the last day of the 1-year period following the date of approval of the rapid testing method by the Administrator” before the semicolon at the end.
(b) Revised Criteria.—Section 304(a)(9) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1314(a)(9)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) by inserting “rapid” before “testing”; and
(B) by striking “, as appropriate”; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
“(C) VALIDATION OF RAPID TESTING METHODS.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this subparagraph, and periodically thereafter, the Administrator shall validate the rapid testing methods.”.
(c) Definition.—Section 502 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1362) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(25) RAPID TESTING METHOD.—The term ‘rapid testing method’ means a method of testing for which results are available within 2 hours after commencement of the rapid testing method.”.
SEC. 3026. PROMPT COMMUNICATION WITH STATE ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCIES.
Section 406(c)(5) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(c)(5)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking “prompt communication” and inserting “communication within 24 hours of the receipt of the results of a water quality sample”;
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking “and” at the end;
(3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting “and” after the semicolon at the end; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
“(C) all agencies of the State government with authority to require the prevention or treatment of the sources of beachwater pollution;”.
SEC. 3027. CONTENT OF STATE AND LOCAL PROGRAMS.
Section 406(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(c)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (6), by striking “and” at the end;
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(3) by adding at the end the following:
“(8) measures to develop and implement a beachwater pollution source identification and tracking program for the coastal recreation waters that are not meeting applicable water quality standards for pathogens and pathogen indicators;
“(9) a publicly accessible and searchable geographical information system database with information updated within 24 hours of the availability of the information, organized by beach and with defined standards, sampling plan, monitoring protocols, sampling results, and number and cause of beach closing and advisory days; and
“(10) measures to ensure that closures or advisories are made or issued within 24 hours after the State government determines that any coastal recreation waters in the State are not meeting or are not expected to meet applicable water quality standards for pathogens and pathogen indicators.”.
SEC. 3028. COMPLIANCE REVIEW.
Section 406(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(h)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting the subparagraphs appropriately;
(2) by striking “In the” and inserting the following: “(1) IN GENERAL.—In the”; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
“(2) COMPLIANCE REVIEW.—On or before July 31 of each calendar year beginning after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Administrator shall—
“(A) prepare a written assessment of compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements of this section for each State and local government, and of compliance with conditions of each grant made under this section to a State or local government, including compliance with any requirement or condition under subsection (a)(2) or (c);
“(B) notify the State or local government of the assessment; and
“(C) make each of the assessments available to the public in a searchable database on or before December 31 of the calendar year.
“(3) CORRECTIVE ACTION.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—Any State or local government that the Administrator notifies under paragraph (2) that the State or local government is not in compliance with any requirement or grant condition described in paragraph (2) shall take such action as is necessary to comply with the requirement or condition by not later than 1 year after the date of the notification.
“(B) NONCOMPLIANCE.—If the State or local government is not in compliance with such a requirement or condition by the date that is 1 year after the deadline specified in subparagraph (A), any grants made under subsection (b) to the State or local government, after the last day of the 1-year period and while the State or local government is not in compliance with all requirements and grant conditions described in paragraph (2), shall require a Federal share of not to exceed 50 percent.
“(4) GAO REVIEW.—Not later than December 31 of the third calendar year beginning after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Comptroller General of the United States shall—
“(A) conduct a review of the activities of the Administrator under paragraphs (2) and (3) during the first and second calendar years beginning after that date of enactment; and
“(B) submit to Congress a report on the results of the review.”.
SEC. 3029. STUDY OF GRANT DISTRIBUTION FORMULA.
(a) Study.—Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (referred to in this section as the “Administrator”) shall commence a study of the formula for the distribution of grants under section 406 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346) for the purpose of identifying potential revisions of that formula.
(b) Requirements.—In conducting the study, the Administrator shall—
(1) consider the emphasis and valuation placed on length of beach season, including any findings made by the Government Accountability Office with respect to that emphasis and valuation; and
(2) consult with appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies.
(c) Report And Revision.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall—
(1) submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the study, including any recommendations for revisions of the distribution formula referred to in subsection (a); and
(2) revise the distribution formula referred to in subsection (a) in accordance with those recommendations.
Subtitle D—Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments Of 2008
SEC. 3031. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments of 2008”.
SEC. 3032. LIMITATION ON AVAILABLE AMOUNTS; MAXIMUM COMMISSION CONTRIBUTION.
(a) Grants And Other Assistance.—Section 14321(a) of title 40, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)(A) by striking clause (i) and inserting the following:
“(i) the amount of the grant shall not exceed—
“(I) 50 percent of administrative expenses;
“(II) at the discretion of the Commission, if the grant is to a local development district that has a charter or authority that includes the economic development of a county or a part of a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 75 percent of administrative expenses; or
“(III) at the discretion of the Commission, if the grant is to a local development district that has a charter or authority that includes the economic development of a county or a part of a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent of administrative expenses;”; and
(2) in paragraph (2) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), of the cost of any activity eligible for financial assistance under this section, not more than—
“(i) 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this subtitle;
“(ii) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this subtitle; or
“(iii) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this subtitle.”.
(b) Demonstration Health Projects.—Section 14502 of title 40, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (d) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
“(2) LIMITATION ON AVAILABLE AMOUNTS.—Grants under this section for the operation (including initial operating amounts and operating deficits, which include the cost of attracting, training, and retaining qualified personnel) of a demonstration health project, whether or not constructed with amounts authorized to be appropriated by this section, may be made for up to—
“(A) 50 percent of the cost of that operation;
“(B) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent of the cost of that operation; or
“(C) in the case of a project to be carried out for a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent of the cost of that operation.”; and
(2) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (1) by striking “paragraph (2)” and inserting “paragraphs (2) and (3)”; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
“(3) AT-RISK COUNTIES.—The maximum Commission contribution for a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526 may be increased to the lesser of—
“(A) 70 percent; or
“(B) the maximum Federal contribution percentage authorized by this section.”.
(c) Assistance For Proposed Low- And Middle-Income Housing Projects.—Section 14503 of title 40, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (d) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
“(1) LIMITATION ON AVAILABLE AMOUNTS.—A loan under subsection (b) for the cost of planning and obtaining financing (including the cost of preliminary surveys and analyses of market needs, preliminary site engineering and architectural fees, site options, application and mortgage commitment fees, legal fees, and construction loan fees and discounts) of a project described in that subsection may be made for up to—
“(A) 50 percent of that cost;
“(B) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent of that cost; or
“(C) in the case of a project to be carried out for a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent of that cost.”; and
(2) in subsection (e) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
“(1) IN GENERAL.—A grant under this section for expenses incidental to planning and obtaining financing for a project under this section that the Secretary considers to be unrecoverable from the proceeds of a permanent loan made to finance the project shall—
“(A) not be made to an organization established for profit; and
“(B) except as provided in paragraph (2), not exceed—
“(i) 50 percent of those expenses;
“(ii) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent of those expenses; or
“(iii) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent of those expenses.”.
(d) Telecommunications And Technology Initiative.—Section 14504 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
“(b) Limitation On Available Amounts.—Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section, not more than—
“(1) 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section;
“(2) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; or
“(3) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.”.
(e) Entrepreneurship Initiative.—Section 14505 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
“(c) Limitation On Available Amounts.—Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section, not more than—
“(1) 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section;
“(2) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; or
“(3) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.”.
(f) Regional Skills Partnerships.—Section 14506 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
“(d) Limitation On Available Amounts.—Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section, not more than—
“(1) 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section;
“(2) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; or
“(3) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.”.
(g) Supplements To Federal Grant Programs.—Section 14507(g) of title 40, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking “paragraph (2)” and inserting “paragraphs (2) and (3)”; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
“(3) AT-RISK COUNTIES.—The maximum Commission contribution for a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526 may be increased to 70 percent.”.
SEC. 3033. ECONOMIC AND ENERGY DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE.
(a) In General.—Subchapter I of chapter 145 of subtitle IV of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“§ 14508. Economic and energy development initiative
“(a) Projects To Be Assisted.—The Appalachian Regional Commission may provide technical assistance, make grants, enter into contracts, or otherwise provide amounts to persons or entities in the Appalachian region for projects and activities—
“(1) to promote energy efficiency in the Appalachian region to enhance the economic competitiveness of the Appalachian region;
“(2) to increase the use of renewable energy resources, particularly biomass, in the Appalachian region to produce alternative transportation fuels, electricity, and heat; and
“(3) to support the development of regional, conventional energy resources to produce electricity and heat through advanced technologies that achieve a substantial reduction in emissions, including greenhouse gases, over the current baseline.
“(b) Limitation On Available Amounts.—Of the cost of any activity eligible for a grant under this section, not more than—
“(1) 50 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section;
“(2) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect under section 14526, 80 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section; or
“(3) in the case of a project to be carried out in a county for which an at-risk county designation is in effect under section 14526, 70 percent may be provided from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.
“(c) Sources Of Assistance.—Subject to subsection (b), grants provided under this section may be provided from amounts made available to carry out this section in combination with amounts made available under other Federal programs or from any other source.
“(d) Federal Share.—Notwithstanding any provision of law limiting the Federal share under any other Federal program, amounts made available to carry out this section may be used to increase that Federal share, as the Commission decides is appropriate.”.
(b) Conforming Amendment.—The analysis for chapter 145 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 14507 the following:

“14508. Economic and energy development initiative.”.
SEC. 3034. DISTRESSED, AT-RISK, AND ECONOMICALLY STRONG COUNTIES.
(a) Designation Of At-Risk Counties.—Section 14526 of title 40, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the section heading by inserting “, at-risk,” after “Distressed”; and
(2) in subsection (a)(1)—
(A) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C);
(B) in subparagraph (A) by striking “and” at the end; and
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
“(B) designate as ‘at-risk counties’ those counties in the Appalachian region that are most at risk of becoming economically distressed; and”.
(b) Conforming Amendment.—The analysis for chapter 145 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 14526 and inserting the following:

“14526. Distressed, at-risk, and economically strong counties.”.
SEC. 3035. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) In General.—Section 14703(a) of title 40, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
“(a) In General.—In addition to amounts made available under section 14501, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Appalachian Regional Commission to carry out this subtitle—
“(1) $87,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
“(2) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(3) $105,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(4) $108,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(5) $110,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.”.
(b) Economic And Energy Development Initiative.—Section 14703(b) of such title is amended to read as follows:
“(b) Economic And Energy Development Initiative.—Of the amounts made available under subsection (a), the following amounts may be used to carry out section 14508—
“(1) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;
“(2) $12,500,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(3) $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(4) $13,500,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(5) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.”.
(c) Allocation Of Funds.—Section 14703 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(d) Allocation Of Funds.—Funds approved by the Appalachian Regional Commission for a project in a State in the Appalachian region pursuant to a congressional directive shall be derived from the total amount allocated to the State by the Appalachian Regional Commission from amounts appropriated to carry out this subtitle.”.
SEC. 3036. TERMINATION.
Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, is amended by striking “2007” and inserting “2012”.
SEC. 3037. ADDITIONS TO APPALACHIAN REGION.
(a) Kentucky.—Section 14102(a)(1)(C) of title 40, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting “Metcalfe,” after “Menifee,”;
(2) by inserting “Nicholas,” after “Morgan,”; and
(3) by inserting “Robertson,” after “Pulaski,”.
(b) Ohio.—Section 14102(a)(1)(H) of such title is amended—
(1) by inserting “Ashtabula,” after “Adams,”;
(2) by inserting “Mahoning,” after “Lawrence,”; and
(3) by inserting “Trumbull,” after “Scioto,”.
(c) Tennessee.—Section 14102(a)(1)(K) of such title is amended by inserting “Lawrence, Lewis,” after “Knox,”.
(d) Virginia.—Section 14102(a)(1)(L) of such title is amended—
(1) by inserting “Henry,” after “Grayson,”; and
(2) by inserting “Patrick,” after “Montgomery,”.
TITLE IV—FOREIGN RELATIONS PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation Act Of 2008
SEC. 4001. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4002. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) According to President George W. Bush, “America’s leadership and national security rest on our commitment to educate and prepare our youth for active engagement in the international community.”.
(2) According to former President William J. Clinton, “Today, the defense of United States interests, the effective management of global issues, and even an understanding of our Nation’s diversity require ever-greater contact with, and understanding of, people and cultures beyond our borders.”.
(3) Congress authorized the establishment of the Commission on the Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship Program pursuant to section 104 of the Miscellaneous Appropriations and Offsets Act, 2004 (division H of Public Law 108–199). Pursuant to its mandate, the Lincoln Commission has submitted to Congress and the President a report of its recommendations for greatly expanding the opportunity for students at institutions of higher education in the United States to study abroad, with special emphasis on studying in developing nations.
(4) According to the Lincoln Commission, “[s]tudy abroad is one of the major means of producing foreign language speakers and enhancing foreign language learning” and, for that reason, “is simply essential to the [N]ation’s security”.
(5) Studies consistently show that United States students score below their counterparts in other advanced countries on indicators of international knowledge. This lack of global literacy is a national liability in an age of global trade and business, global interdependence, and global terror.
(6) Americans believe that it is important for their children to learn other languages, study abroad, attend a college where they can interact with international students, learn about other countries and cultures, and generally be prepared for the global age.
(7) In today’s world, it is more important than ever for the United States to be a responsible, constructive leader that other countries are willing to follow. Such leadership cannot be sustained without an informed citizenry with significant knowledge and awareness of the world.
(8) Study abroad has proven to be a very effective means of imparting international and foreign-language competency to students.
(9) In any given year, only approximately one percent of all students enrolled in United States institutions of higher education study abroad.
(10) Less than 10 percent of the students who graduate from United States institutions of higher education with bachelors degrees have studied abroad.
(11) Far more study abroad must take place in developing countries. Ninety-five percent of the world’s population growth over the next 50 years will occur outside of Europe. Yet in the academic year 2004–2005, 60 percent of United States students studying abroad studied in Europe, and 45 percent studied in four countries—the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, and France—according to the Institute of International Education.
(12) The Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (The 9/11 Commission Report) recommended that the United States increase support for “scholarship, exchange, and library programs”. The 9/11 Public Discourse Project, successor to the 9/11 Commission, noted in its November 14, 2005, status report that this recommendation was “unfulfilled,” and stated that “The U.S. should increase support for scholarship and exchange programs, our most powerful tool to shape attitudes over the course of a generation.”. In its December 5, 2005, Final Report on the 9/11 Commission Recommendations, the 9/11 Public Discourse Project gave the government a grade of “D” for its implementation of this recommendation.
(13) Investing in a national study abroad program would help turn a grade of “D” into an “A” by equipping United States students to communicate United States values and way of life through the unique dialogue that takes place among citizens from around the world when individuals study abroad.
(14) An enhanced national study abroad program could help further the goals of other United States Government initiatives to promote educational, social, and political reform and the status of women in developing and reforming societies around the world, such as the Middle East Partnership Initiative.
(15) To complement such worthwhile Federal programs and initiatives as the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program, the National Security Education Program, and the National Security Language Initiative, a broad-based undergraduate study abroad program is needed that will make many more study abroad opportunities accessible to all undergraduate students, regardless of their field of study, ethnicity, socio-economic status, or gender.
SEC. 4003. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this subtitle are—
(1) to significantly enhance the global competitiveness and international knowledge base of the United States by ensuring that more United States students have the opportunity to acquire foreign language skills and international knowledge through significantly expanded study abroad;
(2) to enhance the foreign policy capacity of the United States by significantly expanding and diversifying the talent pool of individuals with non-traditional foreign language skills and cultural knowledge in the United States who are available for recruitment by United States foreign affairs agencies, legislative branch agencies, and nongovernmental organizations involved in foreign affairs activities;
(3) to ensure that an increasing portion of study abroad by United States students will take place in nontraditional study abroad destinations such as the People’s Republic of China, countries of the Middle East region, and developing countries; and
(4) to create greater cultural understanding of the United States by exposing foreign students and their families to United States students in countries that have not traditionally hosted large numbers of United States students.
SEC. 4004. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.—The term “appropriate congressional committees” means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
(2) BOARD.—The term “Board” means the Board of Directors of the Foundation established pursuant to section 4005(d).
(3) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.—The term “Chief Executive Officer” means the chief executive officer of the Foundation appointed pursuant to section 4005(c).
(4) FOUNDATION.—The term “Foundation” means the Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation established by section 4005(a).
(5) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
(6) NATIONAL OF THE UNITED STATES.—The term “national of the United States” means a national of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence (as those terms are defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101)).
(7) NONTRADITIONAL STUDY ABROAD DESTINATION.—The term “nontraditional study abroad destination” means a location that is determined by the Foundation to be a less common destination for United States students who study abroad.
(8) STUDY ABROAD.—The term “study abroad” means an educational program of study, work, research, internship, or combination thereof that is conducted outside the United States and that carries academic credit toward fulfilling the participating student’s degree requirements.
(9) UNITED STATES.—The term “United States” means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
(10) UNITED STATES STUDENT.—The term “United States student” means a national of the United States who is enrolled at an institution of higher education located within the United States.
SEC. 4005. ESTABLISHMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE SENATOR PAUL SIMON STUDY ABROAD FOUNDATION.
(a) Establishment.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in the executive branch a corporation to be known as the “Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation” that shall be responsible for carrying out this subtitle. The Foundation shall be a government corporation, as defined in section 103 of title 5, United States Code.
(2) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—The Foundation shall be governed by a Board of Directors in accordance with subsection (d).
(3) INTENT OF CONGRESS.—It is the intent of Congress in establishing the structure of the Foundation set forth in this subsection to create an entity that will administer a study abroad program that—
(A) serves the long-term foreign policy and national security needs of the United States; but
(B) operates independently of short-term political and foreign policy considerations.
(b) Mandate Of Foundation.—In administering the program referred to in subsection (a)(3), the Foundation shall—
(1) promote the objectives and purposes of this subtitle;
(2) through responsive, flexible grant-making, promote access to study abroad opportunities by United States students at diverse institutions of higher education, including two-year institutions, minority-serving institutions, and institutions that serve nontraditional students;
(3) through creative grant-making, promote access to study abroad opportunities by diverse United States students, including minority students, students of limited financial means, and nontraditional students;
(4) solicit funds from the private sector to supplement funds made available under this subtitle; and
(5) minimize administrative costs and maximize the availability of funds for grants under this subtitle.
(c) Chief Executive Officer.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be in the Foundation a Chief Executive Officer who shall be responsible for the management of the Foundation.
(2) APPOINTMENT.—The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed by the Board and shall be a recognized leader in higher education, business, or foreign policy, chosen on the basis of a rigorous search.
(3) RELATIONSHIP TO BOARD.—The Chief Executive Officer shall report to and be under the direct authority of the Board.
(4) COMPENSATION AND RANK.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Chief Executive Officer shall be compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
(B) AMENDMENT.—Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“ Chief Executive Officer, Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation.”.
(5) AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES.—The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the management of the Foundation and shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the Foundation.
(6) AUTHORITY TO APPOINT OFFICERS.—In consultation and with approval of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint all officers of the Foundation.
(d) Board Of Directors.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There shall be in the Foundation a Board of Directors.
(2) DUTIES.—The Board shall perform the functions specified to be carried out by the Board in this subtitle and may prescribe, amend, and repeal bylaws, rules, regulations, and procedures governing the manner in which the business of the Foundation may be conducted and in which the powers granted to it by law may be exercised.
(3) MEMBERSHIP.—The Board shall consist of—
(A) the Secretary of State (or the Secretary’s designee), the Secretary of Education (or the Secretary’s designee), the Secretary of Defense (or the Secretary’s designee), and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (or the Administrator’s designee); and
(B) five other individuals with relevant experience in matters relating to study abroad (such as individuals who represent institutions of higher education, business organizations, foreign policy organizations, or other relevant organizations) who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of which—
(i) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the majority leader of the House of Representatives;
(ii) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the minority leader of the House of Representatives;
(iii) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the majority leader of the Senate; and
(iv) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the minority leader of the Senate.
(4) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.—The Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation shall serve as a nonvoting, ex officio member of the Board.
(5) TERMS.—
(A) OFFICERS OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—Each member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) shall serve for a term that is concurrent with the term of service of the individual’s position as an officer within the other Federal department or agency.
(B) OTHER MEMBERS.—Each member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B) shall be appointed for a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for one additional 3 year term.
(C) VACANCIES.—A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
(6) CHAIRPERSON.—There shall be a Chairperson of the Board. The Secretary of State (or the Secretary’s designee) shall serve as the Chairperson.
(7) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of the Board described in paragraph (3) shall constitute a quorum, which, except with respect to a meeting of the Board during the 135-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, shall include at least one member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B).
(8) MEETINGS.—The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson.
(9) COMPENSATION.—
(A) OFFICERS OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of the member’s service on the Board.
(ii) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—Each such member of the Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
(B) OTHER MEMBERS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii), a member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B) while away from the member’s home or regular place of business on necessary travel in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board, shall be paid per diem, travel, and transportation expenses in the same manner as is provided under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
(ii) LIMITATION.—A member of the Board may not be paid compensation under clause (i) for more than 90 days in any calendar year.
SEC. 4006. ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF PROGRAM.
(a) Establishment Of The Program.—There is hereby established a program, which shall—
(1) be administered by the Foundation; and
(2) award grants to—
(A) United States students for study abroad;
(B) nongovernmental institutions that provide and promote study abroad opportunities for United States students, in consortium with institutions described in subparagraph (C); and
(C) institutions of higher education, individually or in consortium,
in order to accomplish the objectives set forth in subsection (b).
(b) Objectives.—The objectives of the program established under subsection (a) are that, within 10 years of the date of the enactment of this Act—
(1) not less than one million undergraduate United States students will study abroad annually for credit;
(2) the demographics of study-abroad participation will reflect the demographics of the United States undergraduate population, including students enrolled in community colleges, minority-serving institutions, and institutions serving large numbers of low-income and first-generation students; and
(3) an increasing portion of study abroad will take place in nontraditional study abroad destinations, with a substantial portion of such increases taking place in developing countries.
(c) Mandate Of The Program.—In order to accomplish the objectives set forth in subsection (b), the Foundation shall, in administering the program established under subsection (a), take fully into account the recommendations of the Commission on the Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship Program (established pursuant to section 104 of the Miscellaneous Appropriations and Offsets Act, 2004 (division H of Public Law 108–199)).
(d) Structure Of Grants.—
(1) PROMOTING REFORM.—In accordance with the recommendations of the Commission on the Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship Program, grants awarded under the program established under subsection (a) shall be structured to the maximum extent practicable to promote appropriate reforms in institutions of higher education in order to remove barriers to participation by students in study abroad.
(2) GRANTS TO INDIVIDUALS AND INSTITUTIONS.—It is the sense of Congress that—
(A) the Foundation should award not more than 25 percent of the funds awarded as grants to individuals described in subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(2) and not less than 75 percent of such funds to institutions described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of such subsection; and
(B) the Foundation should ensure that not less than 85 percent of the amount awarded to such institutions is used to award scholarships to students.
(e) Balance Of Long-Term And Short-Term Study Abroad Programs.—In administering the program established under subsection (a), the Foundation shall seek an appropriate balance between—
(1) longer-term study abroad programs, which maximize foreign-language learning and intercultural understanding; and
(2) shorter-term study abroad programs, which maximize the accessibility of study abroad to nontraditional students.
(f) Quality And Safety In Study Abroad.—In administering the program established under subsection (a), the Foundation shall require that institutions receiving grants demonstrate that—
(1) the study abroad programs for which students receive grant funds are for academic credit; and
(2) the programs have established health and safety guidelines and procedures.
SEC. 4007. ANNUAL REPORT.
(a) Report Required.—Not later than December 15, 2008, and each December 15 thereafter, the Foundation shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the implementation of this subtitle during the prior fiscal year.
(b) Contents.—The report required by subsection (a) shall include—
(1) the total financial resources available to the Foundation during the year, including appropriated funds, the value and source of any gifts or donations accepted pursuant to section 4008(a)(6), and any other resources;
(2) a description of the Board’s policy priorities for the year and the bases upon which grant proposals were solicited and awarded to institutions of higher education, nongovernmental institutions, and consortiums pursuant to section 4006(a)(2)(B) and 4006(a)(2)(C);
(3) a list of grants made to institutions of higher education, nongovernmental institutions, and consortiums pursuant to section 4006(a)(2)(B) and 4006(a)(2)(C) that includes the identity of the institutional recipient, the dollar amount, the estimated number of study abroad opportunities provided to United States students by each grant, the amount of the grant used by each institution for administrative expenses, and information on cost-sharing by each institution receiving a grant;
(4) a description of the bases upon which the Foundation made grants directly to United States students pursuant to section 4006(a)(2)(A);
(5) the number and total dollar amount of grants made directly to United States students by the Foundation pursuant to section 4006(a)(2)(A); and
(6) the total administrative and operating expenses of the Foundation for the year, as well as specific information on—
(A) the number of Foundation employees and the cost of compensation for Board members, Foundation employees, and personal service contractors;
(B) costs associated with securing the use of real property for carrying out the functions of the Foundation;
(C) total travel expenses incurred by Board members and Foundation employees in connection with Foundation activities; and
(D) total representational expenses.
SEC. 4008. POWERS OF THE FOUNDATION; RELATED PROVISIONS.
(a) Powers.—The Foundation—
(1) shall have perpetual succession unless dissolved by a law enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act;
(2) may adopt, alter, and use a seal, which shall be judicially noticed;
(3) may make and perform such contracts, grants, and other agreements with any person or government however designated and wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Foundation;
(4) may determine and prescribe the manner in which its obligations shall be incurred and its expenses allowed and paid, including expenses for representation;
(5) may lease, purchase, or otherwise acquire, improve, and use such real property wherever situated, as may be necessary for carrying out the functions of the Foundation;
(6) may accept cash gifts or donations of services or of property (real, personal, or mixed), tangible or intangible, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subtitle;
(7) may use the United States mails in the same manner and on the same conditions as the executive departments;
(8) may contract with individuals for personal services, who shall not be considered Federal employees for any provision of law administered by the Office of Personnel Management;
(9) may hire or obtain passenger motor vehicles; and
(10) shall have such other powers as may be necessary and incident to carrying out this subtitle.
(b) Principal Office.—The Foundation shall maintain its principal office in the metropolitan area of Washington, District of Columbia.
(c) Applicability Of Government Corporation Control Act.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Foundation shall be subject to chapter 91 of subtitle VI of title 31, United States Code, except that the Foundation shall not be authorized to issue obligations or offer obligations to the public.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 9101(3) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(S) the Senator Paul Simon Study Abroad Foundation.”.
(d) Inspector General.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Inspector General of the Department of State shall serve as Inspector General of the Foundation, and, in acting in such capacity, may conduct reviews, investigations, and inspections of all aspects of the operations and activities of the Foundation.
(2) AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD.—In carrying out the responsibilities under this subsection, the Inspector General shall report to and be under the general supervision of the Board.
(3) REIMBURSEMENT AND AUTHORIZATION OF SERVICES.—
(A) REIMBURSEMENT.—The Foundation shall reimburse the Department of State for all expenses incurred by the Inspector General in connection with the Inspector General’s responsibilities under this subsection.
(B) AUTHORIZATION FOR SERVICES.—Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under section 4010(a) for a fiscal year, up to $2,000,000 is authorized to be made available to the Inspector General of the Department of State to conduct reviews, investigations, and inspections of operations and activities of the Foundation.
SEC. 4009. GENERAL PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES.
(a) Detail Of Personnel.—Upon request of the Chief Executive Officer, the head of an agency may detail any employee of such agency to the Foundation on a reimbursable basis. Any employee so detailed remains, for the purpose of preserving such employee’s allowances, privileges, rights, seniority, and other benefits, an employee of the agency from which detailed.
(b) Reemployment Rights.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An employee of an agency who is serving under a career or career conditional appointment (or the equivalent), and who, with the consent of the head of such agency, transfers to the Foundation, is entitled to be reemployed in such employee’s former position or a position of like seniority, status, and pay in such agency, if such employee—
(A) is separated from the Foundation for any reason, other than misconduct, neglect of duty, or malfeasance; and
(B) applies for reemployment not later than 90 days after the date of separation from the Foundation.
(2) SPECIFIC RIGHTS.—An employee who satisfies paragraph (1) is entitled to be reemployed (in accordance with such paragraph) within 30 days after applying for reemployment and, on reemployment, is entitled to at least the rate of basic pay to which such employee would have been entitled had such employee never transferred.
(c) Hiring Authority.—Of persons employed by the Foundation, not to exceed 20 persons may be appointed, compensated, or removed without regard to the civil service laws and regulations.
(d) Basic Pay.—The Chief Executive Officer may fix the rate of basic pay of employees of the Foundation without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 of title 5, United States Code (relating to the classification of positions), subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title (relating to General Schedule pay rates), except that no employee of the Foundation may receive a rate of basic pay that exceeds the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such title.
(e) Definitions.—In this section—
(1) the term “agency” means an executive agency, as defined by section 105 of title 5, United States Code; and
(2) the term “detail” means the assignment or loan of an employee, without a change of position, from the agency by which such employee is employed to the Foundation.
SEC. 4010. GAO REVIEW.
(a) Review Required.—Not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall commence a review of the operations of the Foundation.
(b) Content.—In conducting the review required under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall analyze—
(1) whether the Foundation is organized and operating in a manner that will permit it to fulfill the purposes of this section, as set forth in section 4003;
(2) the degree to which the Foundation is operating efficiently and in a manner consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (4) and (5) of section 4005(b);
(3) whether grantmaking by the Foundation is being undertaken in a manner consistent with subsections (d), (e), and (f) of section 4006;
(4) the extent to which the Foundation is using best practices in the implementation of this subtitle and the administration of the program described in section 4006; and
(5) other relevant matters, as determined by the Comptroller General, after consultation with the appropriate congressional committees.
(c) Report Required.—The Comptroller General shall submit a report on the results of the review conducted under subsection (a) to the Secretary of State (in the capacity of the Secretary as Chairperson of the Board of the Foundation) and to the appropriate congressional committees.
SEC. 4011. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) Authorization Of Appropriations.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2008 and each subsequent fiscal year.
(2) AMOUNTS IN ADDITION TO OTHER AVAILABLE AMOUNTS.—Amounts authorized to be appropriated by paragraph (1) are in addition to amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for educational exchange programs, including the J. William Fulbright Educational Exchange Program and the Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship Program, administered by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the Department of State.
(b) Allocation Of Funds.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Foundation may allocate or transfer to any agency of the United States Government any of the funds available for carrying out this subtitle. Such funds shall be available for obligation and expenditure for the purposes for which the funds were authorized, in accordance with authority granted in this subtitle or under authority governing the activities of the United States Government agency to which such funds are allocated or transferred.
(2) NOTIFICATION.—The Foundation shall notify the appropriate congressional committees not less than 15 days prior to an allocation or transfer of funds pursuant to paragraph (1).
Subtitle B—Reconstruction And Stabilization Civilian Management Act Of 2008
SEC. 4101. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian Management Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4102. FINDINGS.
(a) Findings.—Congress finds the following:
(1) In June 2004, the Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization (referred to as the “Coordinator”) was established in the Department of State with the mandate to lead, coordinate, and institutionalize United States Government civilian capacity to prevent or prepare for post-conflict situations and help reconstruct and stabilize a country or region that is at risk of, in, or is in transition from, conflict or civil strife.
(2) In December 2005, the Coordinator’s mandate was reaffirmed by the National Security Presidential Directive 44, which instructed the Secretary of State, and at the Secretary’s direction, the Coordinator, to coordinate and lead integrated United States Government efforts, involving all United States departments and agencies with relevant capabilities, to prepare, plan for, and conduct reconstruction and stabilization operations.
(3) National Security Presidential Directive 44 assigns to the Secretary, with the Coordinator’s assistance, the lead role to develop reconstruction and stabilization strategies, ensure civilian interagency program and policy coordination, coordinate interagency processes to identify countries at risk of instability, provide decision-makers with detailed options for an integrated United States Government response in connection with reconstruction and stabilization operations, and carry out a wide range of other actions, including the development of a civilian surge capacity to meet reconstruction and stabilization emergencies. The Secretary and the Coordinator are also charged with coordinating with the Department of Defense on reconstruction and stabilization responses, and integrating planning and implementing procedures.
(4) The Department of Defense issued Directive 3000.05, which establishes that stability operations are a core United States military mission that the Department of Defense must be prepared to conduct and support, provides guidance on stability operations that will evolve over time, and assigns responsibilities within the Department of Defense for planning, training, and preparing to conduct and support stability operations.
(5) The President's Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Request to Congress includes $248,600,000 for a Civilian Stabilization Initiative that would vastly improve civilian partnership with the Armed Forces in post-conflict stabilization situations, including by establishing an Active Response Corps of 250 persons, a Standby Response Corps of 2000 persons, and a Civilian Response Corps of 2000 persons.
SEC. 4103. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.
(2) AGENCY.—The term “agency” means any entity included in chapter 1 of title 5, United States Code.
(3) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.—The term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(4) DEPARTMENT.—Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, the term “Department” means the Department of State.
(5) PERSONNEL.—The term “personnel” means individuals serving in any service described in section 2101 of title 5, United States Code, other than in the legislative or judicial branch.
(6) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of State.
SEC. 4104. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION CRISES.
Chapter 1 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2351 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 617 the following new section:
“SEC. 618. ASSISTANCE FOR A RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION CRISIS.
“(a) Assistance.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—If the President determines that it is in the national security interests of the United States for United States civilian agencies or non-Federal employees to assist in reconstructing and stabilizing a country or region that is at risk of, in, or is in transition from, conflict or civil strife, the President may, in accordance with the provisions set forth in section 614(a)(3), subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection but notwithstanding any other provision of law, and on such terms and conditions as the President may determine, furnish assistance to such country or region for reconstruction or stabilization using funds under paragraph (3).
“(2) PRE-NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—The President may not furnish assistance pursuant to paragraph (1) until five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the requirements under section 614(a)(3) of this Act are carried out.
“(3) FUNDS.—The funds referred to in paragraph (1) are funds made available under any other provision of law and under other provisions of this Act, and transferred or reprogrammed for purposes of this section, and such transfer or reprogramming shall be subject to the procedures applicable to a notification under section 634A of this Act.
“(b) Limitation.—The authority contained in this section may be exercised only during fiscal years 2009, 2010, and 2011, except that the authority may not be exercised to furnish more than $200,000,000 in any such fiscal year.”.
SEC. 4105. RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION.
Title I of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
“SEC. 62. RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION.
“(a) Office Of The Coordinator For Reconstruction And Stabilization.—
“(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established within the Department of State the Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization.
“(2) COORDINATOR FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION.—The head of the Office shall be the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Coordinator shall report directly to the Secretary.
“(3) FUNCTIONS.—The functions of the Office of the Coordinator for Reconstruction and Stabilization shall include the following:
“(A) Monitoring, in coordination with relevant bureaus and offices of the Department of State and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), political and economic instability worldwide to anticipate the need for mobilizing United States and international assistance for the reconstruction and stabilization of a country or region that is at risk of, in, or are in transition from, conflict or civil strife.
“(B) Assessing the various types of reconstruction and stabilization crises that could occur and cataloging and monitoring the non-military resources and capabilities of agencies (as such term is defined in section 4103 of the Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian Management Act of 2008) that are available to address such crises.
“(C) Planning, in conjunction with USAID, to address requirements, such as demobilization, disarmament, rebuilding of civil society, policing, human rights monitoring, and public information, that commonly arise in reconstruction and stabilization crises.
“(D) Coordinating with relevant agencies to develop interagency contingency plans and procedures to mobilize and deploy civilian personnel and conduct reconstruction and stabilization operations to address the various types of such crises.
“(E) Entering into appropriate arrangements with agencies to carry out activities under this section and the Reconstruction and Stabilization Civilian Management Act of 2008.
“(F) Identifying personnel in State and local governments and in the private sector who are available to participate in the Civilian Reserve Corps established under subsection (b) or to otherwise participate in or contribute to reconstruction and stabilization activities.
“(G) Taking steps to ensure that training and education of civilian personnel to perform such reconstruction and stabilization activities is adequate and is carried out, as appropriate, with other agencies involved with stabilization operations.
“(H) Taking steps to ensure that plans for United States reconstruction and stabilization operations are coordinated with and complementary to reconstruction and stabilization activities of other governments and international and nongovernmental organizations, to improve effectiveness and avoid duplication.
“(I) Maintaining the capacity to field on short notice an evaluation team consisting of personnel from all relevant agencies to undertake on-site needs assessment.
“(b) Response Readiness Corps.—
“(1) RESPONSE READINESS CORPS.—The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development and the heads of other appropriate agencies of the United States Government, may establish and maintain a Response Readiness Corps (referred to in this section as the ‘Corps’) to provide assistance in support of reconstruction and stabilization operations in countries or regions that are at risk of, in, or are in transition from, conflict or civil strife. The Corps shall be composed of active and standby components consisting of United States Government personnel, including employees of the Department of State, the United States Agency for International Development, and other agencies who are recruited and trained (and employed in the case of the active component) to provide such assistance when deployed to do so by the Secretary to support the purposes of this subtitle.
“(2) CIVILIAN RESERVE CORPS.—The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, may establish a Civilian Reserve Corps for which purpose the Secretary is authorized to employ and train individuals who have the skills necessary for carrying out reconstruction and stabilization activities, and who have volunteered for that purpose. The Secretary may deploy members of the Civilian Reserve Corps pursuant to a determination by the President under section 618 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
“(3) MITIGATION OF DOMESTIC IMPACT.—The establishment and deployment of any Civilian Reserve Corps shall be undertaken in a manner that will avoid substantively impairing the capacity and readiness of any State and local governments from which Civilian Reserve Corps personnel may be drawn.
“(c) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2007 through 2010 for the Office and to support, educate, train, maintain, and deploy a Response Readiness Corps and a Civilian Reserve Corps.
“(d) Existing Training And Education Programs.—The Secretary shall ensure that personnel of the Department, and, in coordination with the Administrator of USAID, that personnel of USAID, make use of the relevant existing training and education programs offered within the Government, such as those at the Center for Stabilization and Reconstruction Studies at the Naval Postgraduate School and the Interagency Training, Education, and After Action Review Program at the National Defense University.”.
SEC. 4106. AUTHORITIES RELATED TO PERSONNEL.
(a) Extension Of Certain Foreign Service Benefits.—The Secretary, or the head of any agency with respect to personnel of that agency, may extend to any individuals assigned, detailed, or deployed to carry out reconstruction and stabilization activities pursuant to section 62 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (as added by section 4105 of this Act), the benefits or privileges set forth in sections 413, 704, and 901 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3973, 22 U.S.C. 4024, and 22 U.S.C. 4081) to the same extent and manner that such benefits and privileges are extended to members of the Foreign Service.
(b) Authority Regarding Details.—The Secretary is authorized to accept details or assignments of any personnel, and any employee of a State or local government, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis for the purpose of carrying out this subtitle, and the head of any agency is authorized to detail or assign personnel of such agency on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis to the Department of State for purposes of section 62 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, as added by section 4105 of this Act.
SEC. 4107. RECONSTRUCTION AND STABILIZATION STRATEGY.
(a) In General.—The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, shall develop an interagency strategy to respond to reconstruction and stabilization operations.
(b) Contents.—The strategy required under subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) Identification of and efforts to improve the skills sets needed to respond to and support reconstruction and stabilization operations in countries or regions that are at risk of, in, or are in transition from, conflict or civil strife.
(2) Identification of specific agencies that can adequately satisfy the skills sets referred to in paragraph (1).
(3) Efforts to increase training of Federal civilian personnel to carry out reconstruction and stabilization activities.
(4) Efforts to develop a database of proven and best practices based on previous reconstruction and stabilization operations.
(5) A plan to coordinate the activities of agencies involved in reconstruction and stabilization operations.
SEC. 4108. ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually for each of the five years thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the implementation of this subtitle. The report shall include detailed information on the following:
(1) Any steps taken to establish a Response Readiness Corps and a Civilian Reserve Corps, pursuant to section 62 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (as added by section 4105 of this Act).
(2) The structure, operations, and cost of the Response Readiness Corps and the Civilian Reserve Corps, if established.
(3) How the Response Readiness Corps and the Civilian Reserve Corps coordinate, interact, and work with other United States foreign assistance programs.
(4) An assessment of the impact that deployment of the Civilian Reserve Corps, if any, has had on the capacity and readiness of any domestic agencies or State and local governments from which Civilian Reserve Corps personnel are drawn.
(5) The reconstruction and stabilization strategy required by section 4107 and any annual updates to that strategy.
(6) Recommendations to improve implementation of subsection (b) of section 62 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, including measures to enhance the recruitment and retention of an effective Civilian Reserve Corps.
(7) A description of anticipated costs associated with the development, annual sustainment, and deployment of the Civilian Reserve Corps.
Subtitle C—Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Of Act Of 2008
SEC. 4201. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4202. REAUTHORIZATION OF OPIC PROGRAMS.
Section 235(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2195(a)(2)) is amended by striking “September 30, 2007” and inserting “September 30, 2011”.
SEC. 4203. REQUIREMENTS REGARDING INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED WORKER RIGHTS.
Subsection (a) of section 231A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191a(a)) is amended to read as follows:
“(a) Internationally Recognized Worker Rights.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation may insure, reinsure, guaranty, or finance a project only if—
“(A) the country in which the project is to be undertaken is eligible for designation as a beneficiary developing country under the Generalized System of Preferences (19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.) and has not been determined to be ineligible for such designation on the basis of section 502(b)(2)(G) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2462(b)(2)(G)) (relating to internationally recognized worker rights), or section 502(b)(2)(H) of such Act (19 U.S.C. 2462(b)(2)(H) (relating to the worst forms of child labor); or
“(B) the country in which the project is to be undertaken is not eligible for designation as a beneficiary country under the Generalized System of Preferences, the government of that country has taken or is taking steps to afford workers in the country (including any designated zone or special administrative region or area in that country) internationally recognized worker rights (as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade Act of 1974) (19 U.S.C. 2467(4)).
“(2) LIMITATION INAPPLICABLE.—The limitation contained in paragraph (1) shall not apply to providing assistance for humanitarian services.
“(3) USE OF REPORTS.—The Corporation shall, in implementing paragraph (1), consider—
“(A) information contained in the reports required by sections 116(d) and 502B(b) of this Act and the report required by section 504 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2464);
“(B) other relevant sources of information readily available to the Corporation, including observations, reports, and recommendations of the International Labour Organization; and
“(C) information provided in the hearing required under subsection (c).
“(4) CONTRACT LANGUAGE.—The Corporation shall include the following language, in substantially the following form, in all contracts which the Corporation enters into with eligible investors to provide support under this title:
“ The investor agrees not to take any actions to obstruct or prevent employees of the foreign enterprise from exercising the employees' internationally recognized worker rights (as defined in section 507(4) of the Trade Act of 1974) (19 U.S.C. 2467(4)) and the investor agrees to adhere to the obligations regarding those rights. The investor agrees to prohibit discrimination with respect to employment and occupation.
“(5) PREFERENCE TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.—Consistent with its development objectives, the Corporation shall give preferential consideration to projects in countries that—
“(A) have adopted and maintained, in the country’s laws and regulations, internationally recognized worker rights, as well as the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation; and
“(B) are effectively enforcing those laws.”.
SEC. 4204. PREFERENTIAL CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN INVESTMENT PROJECTS.
Section 231(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191(f)) is amended to read as follows:
“(f) to the greatest degree practicable and consistent with the goals of the Corporation, to give preferential consideration to investment projects in any less developed country the government of which is receptive to both domestic and foreign private enterprise and to projects in any country the government of which is willing and able to maintain conditions that enable private enterprise to make a full contribution to the development process;”.
SEC. 4205. CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION ACTION PLAN.
Title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 234A the following new section:
“SEC. 234B. CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION.
“(a) Mitigation Action Plan.—The Corporation shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008, institute a climate change mitigation action plan that includes the following:
“(1) CLEAN TECHNOLOGY.—
“(A) INCREASING ASSISTANCE.—The Corporation shall establish a goal of substantially increasing its support of projects that use, develop, or otherwise promote the use of clean energy technologies during the 10-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008.
“(B) PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT TO PROJECTS.—The Corporation shall give preferential treatment to evaluating and awarding assistance for, and provide greater flexibility in supporting, projects that use, develop, or otherwise promote the use of clean energy technologies.
“(C) REPORT ON PLAN.—The Corporation shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008, submit to the Committees on Foreign Relations and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report on the plan developed to carry out subparagraph (A). Thereafter, the Corporation shall include in its annual report required under section 240A a discussion of the plan and its implementation.
“(2) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENTS.—
“(A) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.—The Corporation shall, in making an environmental impact assessment or initial environmental audit for a project under section 231A(b), also take into account the degree to which the project contributes to the emission of greenhouse gases.
“(B) OTHER DUTIES NOT AFFECTED.—The requirement provided for under subparagraph (A) is in addition to any other requirement, obligation, or duty of the Corporation.
“(3) GOALS FOR REDUCING GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall continue to maintain—
“(i) a goal for reducing direct greenhouse gas emissions associated with projects in the Corporation’s portfolio on the date of the enactment of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008 by 20 percent during the 10-year period beginning on such date of enactment; and
“(ii) a goal for limiting annual investments in projects that have significant greenhouse gas emissions after such date of enactment in a manner that reduces greenhouse gas emissions associated with projects in the Corporation’s total portfolio by 20 percent during the 10-year period beginning on such date of enactment.
“(B) SPECIAL RULES.—
“(i) BASELINE.—For purposes of determining the percentage by which greenhouse gas emissions are reduced under subparagraph (A), the Corporation shall use the aggregate estimated greenhouse gas emissions for projects in the Corporation’s portfolio.
“(ii) SIGNIFICANT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS PROJECTS.—For purposes of this paragraph, projects that have significant greenhouse gas emissions are projects that result in the emission of more than 100,000 tons of CO2 equivalent each year.
“(C) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—The Corporation shall include, in each annual report required under section 240A, the following information with respect to the period covered by the report:
“(i) The annual greenhouse gas emissions attributable to each project in the Corporation’s active portfolio that has significant greenhouse gas emissions.
“(ii) The estimated greenhouse gas emissions for each new project that has significant greenhouse gas emissions for which the Corporation provided insurance, reinsurance, a guaranty, or financing, since the previous report.
“(iii) The extent to which the Corporation is meeting the goals described in subparagraph (A) for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
“(iv) Each new project for which the Corporation provided insurance, reinsurance, a guaranty, or financing, that involves renewable energy and environmentally beneficial products and services, including increased clean energy technology.
“(b) Extraction Investments.—
“(1) PRIOR NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Corporation shall provide notice of consideration of approval of a project described in subparagraph (B) to the Committees on Foreign Relations and Appropriations of the Senate and the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Appropriations of the House of Representatives not later than 60 days before approval of such project.
“(B) PROJECT DESCRIBED.—A project described in this subparagraph is a Category A project (as defined in section 237(q)(3)) relating to an extractive industry project or any extractive industry project for which the assistance to be provided by the Corporation is valued at $10,000,000 or more (including contingent liability).
“(2) COMMITMENT TO EITI PRINCIPLES.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Corporation may approve a contract of insurance, reinsurance, a guaranty, or enter into an agreement to provide financing to an eligible investor for a project that significantly involves an extractive industry only if—
“(i) the eligible investor has agreed to implement the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative principles and criteria, or substantially similar principles and criteria related to the specific project to be carried out; and
“(ii) (I) the host country where the project is to be carried out has committed to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative principles and criteria, or substantially similar principles and criteria; or
“(II) the host country where the project is to be carried out has in place or is taking the necessary steps to establish functioning systems for—
“(aa) accurately accounting for revenues and expenditures in connection with the extraction and export of the type of natural resource to be extracted or exported;
“(bb) the independent audit of such revenues and expenditures and the widespread public dissemination of the finding of the audit; and
“(cc) verifying government receipts against company payments, including widespread dissemination of such payment information, and disclosure of such documents as host government agreements, concession agreements, and bidding documents, and allowing in any such dissemination or disclosure for the redaction of, or exceptions for, information that is commercially proprietary or that would create a competitive disadvantage.
“(B) EXCEPTION.—If a host country does not meet the requirements of subparagraph (A)(ii) (I) or (II), the Corporation may approve a contract of insurance, reinsurance, or a guaranty, or enter into an agreement to provide financing for a project in the host country if the Corporation determines it is in the foreign policy interest of the United States for the Corporation to provide support for the project in the host country and the host country does not prevent an eligible investor from complying with subparagraph (A)(i).
“(3) PREFERENCE FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS.—With respect to all projects that significantly involve an extractive industry, the Corporation, to the extent practicable and consistent with the Corporation's development objectives, shall give preference to a project in which the eligible investor has agreed to implement the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative principles and criteria, or substantially similar principles and criteria, and the host country where the project is to be carried out has committed to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative principles and criteria, or substantially similar principles and criteria.
“(4) EFFECT ON OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—Nothing in this subsection shall affect the limitations and prohibitions with respect to direct investments described in section 234(c).
“(5) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—The Corporation shall include in its annual report required under section 240A a description of its activities to carry out this subsection.
“(c) Definitions.—In this section:
“(1) CLEAN ENERGY TECHNOLOGY.—The term ‘clean energy technology’ means an energy supply or end-use technology that, compared to a similar technology already in widespread commercial use in a host country, will—
“(A) reduce emissions of greenhouse gases; or
“(B) decrease the intensity of energy usage.
“(2) GREENHOUSE GAS.—The term ‘greenhouse gas’ means—
“(A) carbon dioxide;
“(B) methane;
“(C) nitrous oxide;
“(D) hydrofluorocarbons;
“(E) perfluorocarbons; or
“(F) sulfur hexafluoride.
“(3) EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRY.—The term ‘extractive industry’ refers to an enterprise engaged in the exploration, development, or extraction of oil and gas reserves, metal ores, gemstones, industrial minerals (except rock used for construction purposes), or coal.”.
SEC. 4206. INCREASED TRANSPARENCY.
(a) In General.—Paragraph (2) of section 231A(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191a(c)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
“(2) In conjunction with each meeting of its Board of Directors, the Corporation shall hold a public hearing in order to afford an opportunity for any person to present views regarding the activities of the Corporation. The Corporation shall notice such a hearing at least 20 days in advance. At least 15 days in advance of such hearing the Corporation shall make available a public summary of each project, including information related to workers rights, to be considered at the meeting. The Corporation shall not include any confidential business information in the summary made available under this subsection. Such views shall be made part of the record.”.
(b) Additional Transparency.—Section 237 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2197) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
“(p) Review Of Methodology.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Corporation shall make available to the public the methodology, including relevant regulations, used to assess and monitor the impact of projects supported by the Corporation on employment in the United States and on the development, the environment, and the protection of internationally recognized worker rights, as well as the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation, in host countries.
“(q) Public Notice Prior To Project Approval.—
“(1) PUBLIC NOTICE.—
“(A) IN GENERAL.—The Board of Directors of the Corporation may not vote in favor of any action proposed to be taken by the Corporation on a Category A project before the date that is 60 days after the Corporation—
“(i) makes available for public comment a summary of the project and relevant information about the project; and
“(ii) such summary and information described in clause (i) has been made available to groups in the area that may be impacted by the proposed project and to nongovernmental organizations in the host country.
“(B) EXCEPTION.—The Corporation shall not include any confidential business information in the summary and information made available under clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A).
“(2) PUBLISHED RESPONSE.—To the extent practicable, the Corporation shall publish responses to the comments received under paragraph (1)(A)(i) with respect to a Category A project and submit the responses to the Board not later than 7 days before a vote is to be taken on any action proposed by the Corporation on the project.
“(3) CATEGORY A PROJECT DEFINED.—The term ‘Category A project’ means any project or other activity for which the Corporation proposes to provide insurance, reinsurance, a guaranty, financing, or other assistance under this title and which is likely to have a significant adverse environmental impact.”.
(c) Office Of Accountability.—Section 237 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2197), as amended by subsection (b) of this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
“(r) Office Of Accountability.—The Corporation shall maintain an Office of Accountability to provide, to the maximum extent practicable, upon request, problem-solving services for projects supported by the Corporation and review of the Corporation’s compliance with its environmental, social, internationally recognized worker rights, human rights, and transparency policies and procedures. The Office of Accountability shall operate in a manner that is fair, objective, and transparent.”.
SEC. 4207. TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF INVESTMENT FUNDS.
(a) In General.—Section 239 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2199) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(l) Transparency And Accountability Of Investment Funds.—
“(1) COMPETITIVE SELECTION OF INVESTMENT FUND MANAGEMENT.—With respect to any investment fund that the Corporation creates on or after the date of the enactment of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Corporation may select persons to manage the fund only by contract using competitive procedures that are full and open.
“(2) CRITERIA FOR SELECTION.—In assessing proposals for investment fund management proposals, the Corporation shall consider, in addition to other factors, the following:
“(A) The prospective fund management's experience, depth, and cohesiveness.
“(B) The prospective fund management's track record in investing risk capital in emerging markets.
“(C) The prospective fund management's experience, management record, and monitoring capabilities in the countries in which the management operates, including details of local presence (directly or through local alliances).
“(D) The prospective fund management's experience as a fiduciary in managing institutional capital, meeting reporting requirements, and administration.
“(E) The prospective fund management's record in avoiding investments in companies that would be disqualified under section 239(m).
“(3) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Corporation shall include in each annual report under section 240A an analysis of the investment fund portfolio of the Corporation, including the following:
“(A) FUND PERFORMANCE.—An analysis of the aggregate financial performance of the investment fund portfolio grouped by region and maturity.
“(B) STATUS OF LOAN GUARANTIES.—The amount of guaranties committed by the Corporation to support investment funds, including the percentage of such amount that has been disbursed to the investment funds.
“(C) RISK RATINGS.—The definition of risk ratings, and the current aggregate risk ratings for the investment fund portfolio, including the number of investment funds in each of the Corporation's rating categories.
“(D) COMPETITIVE SELECTION OF INVESTMENT FUND MANAGEMENT.—The number of proposals received and evaluated for each newly established investment fund.”.
(b) GAO Review.—Not later than 1 year after the submission of the first report to Congress under section 240A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that includes the information required by section 239(l)(3) of that Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section), the Comptroller General of the United States shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives an independent assessment of the investment fund portfolio of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, covering the items required to be addressed under such section 239(l)(3).
SEC. 4208. PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE TO DEVELOP OR PROMOTE CERTAIN RAILWAY CONNECTIONS AND RAILWAY-RELATED CONNECTIONS.
Section 237 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2197), as amended by section 4206, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(s) Prohibition On Assistance For Certain Railway Projects.—The Corporation may not provide insurance, reinsurance, a guaranty, financing, or other assistance to support the development or promotion of a railway connection or railway-related connection that connects Azerbaijan and Turkey without connecting or traversing with Armenia.”.
SEC. 4209. INELIGIBILITY OF PERSONS DOING CERTAIN BUSINESS WITH STATE SPONSORS OF TERRORISM.
(a) In General.—Section 231 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191) is amended by—
(1) striking “and” at the end of division (m);
(2) by striking the period at the end of division (n) and inserting “; and”; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
“(o) to decline to issue any contract of insurance or reinsurance, or any guaranty, or to enter into any agreement to provide financing or any other assistance for a prospective eligible investor who enters, directly or through an affiliate, into certain discouraged transactions with a state sponsor of terrorism.”.
(b) General Provisions And Powers.—Section 239 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2199), as amended by section 4207, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(m) State Sponsor Of Terrorism.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to carry out the policy set forth in section 231(o) of this Act, the Corporation shall require a certification from an officer of a prospective OPIC-supported United States investor that the investor and all affiliates of the investor are not engaged in a discouraged transaction with a state sponsor of terrorism.
“(2) DISCOURAGED TRANSACTION.—In this subsection, the term ‘discouraged transaction’ means any of the following activities:
“(A) An investment commitment of $20,000,000 or more by the investor in the energy sector in a state sponsor of terrorism.
“(B) Any loan, or an extension of credit, to the government of a state sponsor of terrorism by the investor that—
“(i) is outstanding on the date the Corporation enters into a contract with the investor; and
“(ii) that has a value of more than $5,000,000, including the sale of goods for which payment is not required by the purchaser within 45 days.
“(C) The transfer by the investor of goods that are included on the United States Munitions List, referred to in section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)) to a state sponsor of terrorism within the 3-year period preceding the date the Corporation enters into a contract with the investor.
“(3) EXCEPTION.—An officer of a prospective OPIC-supported United States investor may provide a certification under this subsection notwithstanding the fact that an affiliate of the investor is engaged in a discouraged transaction if the transaction is carried out under a contract or other obligation of the affiliate that was entered into or incurred before the acquisition of such affiliate by the prospective OPIC-supported United States investor or the parent company of the OPIC-supported United States investor.
“(4) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
“(A) AFFILIATE.—The term ‘affiliate’ means any person that is directly or indirectly controlled by, under common control with, or controls a prospective OPIC-supported United States investor or the parent company of such investor.
“(B) INVESTMENT COMMITMENT IN THE ENERGY SECTOR OF A STATE SPONSOR OF TERRORISM.—The term ‘investment commitment in the energy sector of a state sponsor of terrorism’ means any of the following activities if such activity is undertaken pursuant to a commitment, or pursuant to the exercise of rights under a commitment, that was entered into with the government of a state sponsor of terrorism or a nongovernmental entity in a country that is a state sponsor of terrorism:
“(i) The entry into a contract that includes responsibility for the development or transportation of petroleum or natural gas resources located in a country that is a state sponsor of terrorism, or the entry into a contract providing for the general supervision or guaranty of another person's performance of such a contract.
“(ii) The purchase of a share of ownership, including an equity interest, in the development of petroleum or natural resources described in clause (i).
“(iii) The entry into a contract providing for the participation in royalties, earnings, or profits in the development of petroleum or natural resources described in clause (i), without regard to the form of the participation.
“(C) STATE SPONSOR OF TERRORISM.—The term ‘state sponsor of terrorism’ —
“(i) means any country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism pursuant to section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, section 620A of this Act, or section 40 of the Arms Export Control Act; and
“(ii) does not include Southern Sudan, Southern Kordofan/Nuba Mountains State, Blue Nile State, and Abyei, Darfur, if the Corporation, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, determines that providing assistance for projects in such regions will provide emergency relief, promote economic self-sufficiency, or implement a nonmilitary program in support of a viable peace agreement in Sudan, such as the Comprehensive Peace Agreement for Sudan and the Darfur Peace Agreement.”.
SEC. 4210. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION REGARDING MAXIMUM CONTINGENT LIABILITY.
Section 239 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2199), as amended by sections 4207 and 4209, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(n) Congressional Notification Of Increase In Maximum Contingent Liability.—The Corporation shall notify the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives not later than 15 days after the date on which the Corporation's maximum contingent liability outstanding at any one time pursuant to insurance issued under section 234(a), and the amount of financing issued under sections 234(b) and (c), exceeds the Corporation's maximum contingent liability for the preceding fiscal year by 25 percent or more.”.
SEC. 4211. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO OPERATE IN IRAQ.
Section 239 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2199), as amended by sections 4207, 4209, and 4210, is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(o) Operations In Iraq.—Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 237, the Corporation is authorized to undertake in Iraq any program authorized by this title.”.
SEC. 4212. LOW-INCOME HOUSING.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Corporation shall submit a report to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, in consultation with appropriate departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States, as well as private entities, on the feasibility of broadening the assistance the Corporation provides to projects that provide support to low-income home buyers. If the Corporation finds such assistance is feasible, the Corporation shall identify and begin to implement steps to proceed to provide such assistance.
SEC. 4213. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES AND ENTITIES.
Section 240 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2200) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(c) Resources Dedicated To Small Businesses, Cooperatives, And Other Small United States Investors.—The Corporation shall ensure that adequate personnel and resources, including senior officers, are dedicated to assist United States small businesses, cooperatives, and other small United States investors in obtaining insurance, reinsurance, financing, and other assistance under this title. The Corporation shall include, in each annual report under section 240A, the following information with respect to the period covered by the report:
“(1) A description of such personnel and resources.
“(2) The number of United States small businesses, cooperatives, and other small United States investors that received insurance, reinsurance, financing, and other assistance from the Corporation, and the dollar value of such insurance, reinsurance, financing, and other assistance.
“(3) A description of the projects for which the insurance, reinsurance, financing, and other assistance was provided.”.
SEC. 4214. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) Pilot Equity Finance Program.—Section 234 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2194) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (g); and
(2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g).
(b) Transfer Authority.—Section 235 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2195) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (e); and
(2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
(c) Guaranty Contract.—Section 237(j) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2197(j)) is amended by inserting “insurance, reinsurance, and” after “Each”.
(d) Transfer Of Predecessor Programs And Authorities.—
(1) TRANSFER.—Section 239 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2199), as amended by sections 4207, 4209, 4210, and 4211, is amended—
(A) by striking subsection (b); and
(B) by redesignating subsections (c) through (o) as subsections (b) through (n), respectively.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Section 237(m)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2197(m)(1)) is amended by striking “239(g)” and inserting “239(f)”.
(B) Section 240A(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2200A(a)) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (1), by striking “239(h)” and inserting “239(g)”; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking “239(i)” and inserting “239(h)”.
(C) Section 209(e)(16) of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001 (as enacted into law by section 1000(a)(7) of Public Law 106–113; 31 U.S.C. 1113 note) is amended by striking “239(c)” and “2199(c)” and inserting “239(b)” and “2199(b)”, respectively.
(e) Additional Clerical Amendments.—Section 234(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2194(b)) is amended by striking “235(a)(2)” and inserting “235(a)(1)”.
Subtitle D—Tropical Forest And Coral Conservation Reauthorization Act Of 2008
SEC. 4301. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4302. AMENDMENT TO SHORT TITLE OF ACT TO ENCOMPASS EXPANDED SCOPE.
(a) In General.—Section 801 of the Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998 (Public Law 87–195; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note) is amended by striking “Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998” and inserting “Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008”.
(b) References.—Any reference in any other provision of law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the “Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998” shall be deemed to be a reference to the “Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4303. EXPANSION OF SCOPE OF ACT TO PROTECT FORESTS AND CORAL REEFS.
(a) In General.—Section 802 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431), as renamed by section 2(a), is amended—
(1) in subsections (a)(1), (a)(6), (a)(7), (b)(1), (b)(3), and (b)(4), by striking “tropical forests” each place it appears and inserting “tropical forests and coral reefs and associated coastal marine ecosystems”;
(2) in subsection (a)(2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking “resources, which are the basis for developing pharmaceutical products and revitalizing agricultural crops” and inserting “resources”; and
(B) in subparagraph (C), by striking “far-flung”; and
(3) in subsection (b)(2)—
(A) by striking “tropical forests” the first place it appears and inserting “tropical forests and coral reefs and associated coastal marine ecosystems”;
(B) by striking “tropical forests” the second place it appears and inserting “areas”;
(C) by striking “tropical forests” the third place it appears and inserting “tropical forests and coral reefs and their associated coastal marine ecosystems”; and
(D) by striking “that have led to deforestation” and inserting “on such countries”.
(b) Amendments Related To Definitions.—Section 803 of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2431a) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5)—
(A) in the heading, by striking “TROPICAL FOREST” and inserting “TROPICAL FOREST OR CORAL REEF”;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking “tropical forest” and inserting “tropical forest or coral reef”; and
(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking “tropical forest” and inserting “tropical forest or coral reef”.
(2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
“(10) CORAL.—The term ‘coral’ means species of the phylum Cnidaria, including—
“(A) all species of the orders Antipatharia (black corals), Scleractinia (stony corals), Alcyonacea (soft corals), Gorgonacea (horny corals), Stolonifera (organpipe corals and others), and Coenothecalia (blue coral), of the class Anthoza; and
“(B) all species of the order Hydrocorallina (fire corals and hydrocorals) of the class Hydrozoa.
“(11) CORAL REEF.—The term ‘coral reef’ means any reef or shoal composed primarily of coral.
“(12) ASSOCIATED COASTAL MARINE ECOSYSTEM.—The term ‘associated coastal marine ecosystem’ means any coastal marine ecosystem surrounding, or directly related to, a coral reef and important to maintaining the ecological integrity of that coral reef, such as seagrasses, mangroves, sandy seabed communities, and immediately adjacent coastal areas.”.
SEC. 4304. CHANGE TO NAME OF FACILITY.
(a) In General.—Section 804 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431b), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended by striking “Tropical Forest Facility” and inserting “Conservation Facility”.
(b) Conforming Amendments To Definitions.—Section 803(8) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2431a(8)) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking “TROPICAL FOREST FACILITY” and inserting “CONSERVATION FACILITY”; and
(2) by striking “Tropical Forest Facility” both places it appears and inserting “Conservation Facility”.
(c) References.—Any reference in any other provision of law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the “Tropical Forest Facility” shall be deemed to be a reference to the “Conservation Facility”.
SEC. 4305. ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS.
Section 805(a) of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431c(a)), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended by striking “tropical forest” and inserting “tropical forest or coral reef”.
SEC. 4306. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATION ON OVERSIGHT BODIES FOR GRANTS FROM DEBT-FOR-NATURE SWAPS AND DEBT-BUYBACKS.
Section 808(a)(5) of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431f(a)(5)), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
“(C) UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATION ON THE ADMINISTERING BODY.—One or more individuals appointed by the United States Government may serve in an official capacity on the administering body that oversees the implementation of grants arising from a debt-for-nature swap or debt buy-back regardless of whether the United States is a party to any agreement between the eligible purchaser and the government of the beneficiary country.”.
SEC. 4307. CONSERVATION AGREEMENTS.
(a) Renaming Of Agreements.—Section 809 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431g), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking “TROPICAL FOREST AGREEMENT” and inserting “CONSERVATION AGREEMENT”; and
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking “AUTHORITY” and all that follows through “(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary” and inserting “AUTHORITY.—The Secretary”; and
(B) by striking “Tropical Forest Agreement” and inserting “Conservation Agreement”.
(b) Elimination Of Requirement To Consult With The Enterprise For The Americas Board.—Such subsection is further amended by striking paragraph (2).
(c) Role Of Beneficiary Countries.—Such section is further amended—
(1) in subsection (e)(1)(C), by striking “in exceptional circumstances, the government of the beneficiary country” and inserting “in limited circumstances, the government of the beneficiary country when needed to improve governance and enhance management of tropical forests or coral reefs or associated coastal marine ecosystems, without replacing existing levels of financial efforts by the government of the beneficiary country and with priority given to projects that complement grants made under subparagraphs (A) and (B)”; and
(2) by amending subsection (f) to read as follows:
“(f) Review Of Larger Grants.—Any grant of more than $250,000 from a Fund must be approved by the Government of the United States and the government of the beneficiary country.”.
(d) Technical And Conforming Amendments.—Such section is further amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(2)(A)(i), by inserting “to serve in an official capacity” after “Government”;
(2) in subsection (d)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking “tropical forests” and inserting “tropical forests and coral reefs and associated coastal marine ecosystems related to such coral reefs”;
(B) in paragraph (5), by striking “tropical forest”; and
(C) in paragraph (6), by striking “living in or near a tropical forest in a manner consistent with protecting such tropical forest” and inserting “dependent on a tropical forest or coral reef or an associated coastal marine ecosystem related to such coral reef and related resources in a manner consistent with conserving such resources”.
(e) Conforming Amendments To Definitions.—Section 803(7) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2431a(7)) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking “TROPICAL FOREST AGREEMENT” and inserting “CONSERVATION AGREEMENT”; and
(2) by striking “Tropical Forest Agreement” both places it appears and inserting “Conservation Agreement”.
SEC. 4308. CONSERVATION FUND.
(a) In General.—Section 810 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431h), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking “TROPICAL FOREST FUND” and inserting “CONSERVATION FUND”; and
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking “Tropical Forest Agreement” and inserting “Conservation Agreement”; and
(B) by striking “Tropical Forest Fund” and inserting “Conservation Fund”.
(b) Conforming Amendments To Definitions.—Such Act is further amended—
(1) in section 803(9) (22 U.S.C. 2431a(9))—
(A) in the heading, by striking “TROPICAL FOREST FUND” and inserting “CONSERVATION FUND”; and
(B) by striking “Tropical Forest Fund” both places it appears and inserting “Conservation Fund”;
(2) in section 806(c)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2431d(c)(2)), by striking “Tropical Forest Fund” and inserting “Conservation Fund”; and
(3) in section 807(c)(2) (22 U.S.C. 2431e(c)(2)), by striking “Tropical Forest Fund” and inserting “Conservation Fund”.
SEC. 4309. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY OF THE ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS BOARD TO CARRY OUT ACTIVITIES UNDER THE FOREST AND CORAL CONSERVATION ACT OF 2008.
(a) In General.—Section 811 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431i), as renamed by section 4302(a), is repealed.
(b) Conforming Amendments.—Section 803 of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2431a), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (4); and
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), (7), (8), and (9) as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively.
SEC. 4310. CHANGES TO DUE DATES OF ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
Section 813 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431k), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking “(a) In General.—Not later than December 31” and inserting “Not later than April 15”;
(B) by striking “Facility” both places it appears and inserting “Conservation Facility”; and
(C) by striking “fiscal year” both places it appears and inserting “calendar year”; and
(2) by striking subsection (b).
SEC. 4311. CHANGES TO INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND CRITERION FOR COUNTRY ELIGIBILITY.
Section 703(a)(5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2430b(a)(5)) is amended—
(1) by striking “or, as appropriate in exceptional circumstances,” and inserting “or”;
(2) in subparagraph (A)—
(A) by striking “or in exceptional circumstances, a Fund monitored program or its equivalent,” and inserting “or a Fund monitored program, or is implementing sound macroeconomic policies,”; and
(B) by striking “(after consultation with the Enterprise for the Americas Board)”; and
(3) in subparagraph (B), by striking “(after consultation with the Enterprise for Americas Board)”.
SEC. 4312. NEW AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE REDUCTION OF DEBT AND AUTHORIZATION FOR AUDIT, EVALUATION, MONITORING, AND ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES.
Section 806 of the Tropical Forest and Coral Conservation Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2431d), as renamed by section 4302(a), is amended—
(1) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
“(7) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.
“(8) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.
“(9) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2010.”; and
(2) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
“(e) Use Of Funds To Conduct Program Audits, Evaluations, Monitoring, And Administration.—Of the amounts made available to carry out this part for a fiscal year, $300,000 is authorized to be made available to carry out audits, evaluations, monitoring, and administration of programs under this part, including personnel costs associated with such audits, evaluations, monitoring and administration.”
Subtitle E—Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization Act Of 2008
SEC. 4401. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Torture Victims Relief Reauthorization Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4402. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DOMESTIC TREATMENT CENTERS FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.
Section 5(b)(1) of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 2152 note) is amended to read as follows:
“(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Health and Human Services for fiscal years 2008 and 2009, there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a) $25,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 and 2009.”.
SEC. 4403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR FOREIGN TREATMENT CENTERS FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.
Section 4(b)(1) of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 2152 note) is amended to read as follows:
“(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 pursuant to chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), there are authorized to be appropriated to the President to carry out section 130 of such Act $12,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 and 2009.”.
SEC. 4404. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTION TO THE UNITED NATIONS VOLUNTARY FUND FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.
Section 6(a) of the Torture Victims Relief Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 2152 note) is amended to read as follows:
“(a) Funding.—Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 pursuant to chapter 3 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2221 et seq.), there are authorized to be appropriated to the President for a voluntary contribution to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture $12,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 and 2009.”.
Subtitle F—Support For The Museum Of The History Of Polish Jews Act Of 2008
SEC. 4501. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Support for the Museum of the History of Polish Jews Act of 2008”.
SEC. 4502. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Current and future generations benefit greatly by visible reminders and documentation of the historical and cultural roots of their society.
(2) It is in the national interest of the United States to encourage the preservation and protection of artifacts associated with the heritage of United States citizens who trace their forbearers to other countries and to encourage the collection and dissemination of knowledge about that heritage.
(3) According to the 2000 United States Census, nearly 9,000,000 Americans are of Polish ancestry.
(4) At the beginning of World War II, Poland had the largest Jewish population in Europe.
(5) In 1996, Yeshayahu Weinberg, a founding director of Tel Aviv’s Diaspora Museum and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, created an international team of experts with the goal of establishing a Museum of the History of Polish Jews.
(6) The Museum of the History of Polish Jews will preserve and present the history of the Jewish people in Poland and the wealth of their culture spanning a period of 1,000 years.
(7) In 1997, the City of Warsaw donated a parcel of land, opposite the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising Memorial, for the explicit use for the Museum of the History of Polish Jews.
(8) In 2005, the Government of Poland and the City of Warsaw agreed to provide 40,000,000 Polish zlotys for the construction of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews.
(9) In 2005, an international architectural competition selected a Finnish firm to design the building for the Museum of the History of Polish Jews.
(10) In 2006, the building for the Museum of the History of Polish Jews moved into the last phase of project design.
SEC. 4503. ASSISTANCE FOR THE MUSEUM OF THE HISTORY OF POLISH JEWS.
(a) Authority.—The Secretary of State is authorized to provide not more than $5,000,000 in assistance, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may specify, to fund the establishment of, and maintain the permanent collection of, the Museum of the History of Polish Jews.
(b) Expiration.—The authority under subsection (a) shall expire on October 1, 2010.
TITLE V—COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—Communications
PART I—BROADBAND DATA IMPROVEMENT ACT
SEC. 5101. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “Broadband Data Improvement Act”.
SEC. 5102. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) The deployment and adoption of broadband technology has resulted in enhanced economic development and public safety for communities across the Nation, improved health care and educational opportunities, and a better quality of life for all Americans.
(2) Continued progress in the deployment and adoption of broadband technology is vital to ensuring that our Nation remains competitive and continues to create business and job growth.
(3) Improving Federal data on the deployment and adoption of broadband service will assist in the development of broadband technology across all regions of the Nation.
(4) The Federal Government should also recognize and encourage complementary State efforts to improve the quality and usefulness of broadband data and should encourage and support the partnership of the public and private sectors in the continued growth of broadband services and information technology for the residents and businesses of the Nation.
SEC. 5103. IMPROVING FEDERAL DATA ON BROADBAND.
(a) Improving Section 706 Inquiry.—Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C. 157 note) is amended—
(1) by striking “regularly” in subsection (b) and inserting “annually”;
(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
“(c) Demographic Information For Unserved Areas.—As part of the inquiry required by subsection (b), the Commission shall compile a list of geographical areas that are not served by any provider of advanced telecommunications capability (as defined by section 706(c)(1) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C. 157 note)) and to the extent that data from the Census Bureau is available, determine, for each such unserved area—
“(1) the population;
“(2) the population density; and
“(3) the average per capita income.”.
(b) International Comparison.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As part of the assessment and report required by section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (47 U.S.C. 157 note), the Federal Communications Commission shall include information comparing the extent of broadband service capability (including data transmission speeds and price for broadband service capability) in a total of 75 communities in at least 25 countries abroad for each of the data rate benchmarks for broadband service utilized by the Commission to reflect different speed tiers.
(2) CONTENTS.—The Commission shall choose communities for the comparison under this subsection in a manner that will offer, to the extent possible, communities of a population size, population density, topography, and demographic profile that are comparable to the population size, population density, topography, and demographic profile of various communities within the United States. The Commission shall include in the comparison under this subsection—
(A) a geographically diverse selection of countries; and
(B) communities including the capital cities of such countries.
(3) SIMILARITIES AND DIFFERENCES.—The Commission shall identify relevant similarities and differences in each community, including their market structures, the number of competitors, the number of facilities-based providers, the types of technologies deployed by such providers, the applications and services those technologies enable, the regulatory model under which broadband service capability is provided, the types of applications and services used, business and residential use of such services, and other media available to consumers.
(c) Consumer Survey Of Broadband Service Capability.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For the purpose of evaluating, on a statistically significant basis, the national characteristics of the use of broadband service capability, the Commission shall conduct and make public periodic surveys of consumers in urban, suburban, and rural areas in the large business, small business, and residential consumer markets to determine—
(A) the types of technology used to provide the broadband service capability to which consumers subscribe;
(B) the amounts consumers pay per month for such capability;
(C) the actual data transmission speeds of such capability;
(D) the types of applications and services consumers most frequently use in conjunction with such capability;
(E) for consumers who have declined to subscribe to broadband service capability, the reasons given by such consumers for declining such capability;
(F) other sources of broadband service capability which consumers regularly use or on which they rely; and
(G) any other information the Commission deems appropriate for such purpose.
(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Commission shall make publicly available the results of surveys conducted under this subsection at least once per year.
(d) Improving Census Data On Broadband.—The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Federal Communications Commission, shall expand the American Community Survey conducted by the Bureau of the Census to elicit information for residential households, including those located on native lands, to determine whether persons at such households own or use a computer at that address, whether persons at that address subscribe to Internet service and, if so, whether such persons subscribe to dial-up or broadband Internet service at that address.
(e) Proprietary Information.—Nothing in this part shall reduce or remove any obligation the Commission has to protect proprietary information, nor shall this part be construed to compel the Commission to make publicly available any proprietary information.
SEC. 5104. STUDY ON ADDITIONAL BROADBAND METRICS AND STANDARDS.
(a) In General.—The Comptroller General shall conduct a study to consider and evaluate additional broadband metrics or standards that may be used by industry and the Federal Government to provide users with more accurate information about the cost and capability of their broadband connection, and to better compare the deployment and penetration of broadband in the United States with other countries. At a minimum, such study shall consider potential standards or metrics that may be used—
(1) to calculate the average price per megabit per second of broadband offerings;
(2) to reflect the average actual speed of broadband offerings compared to advertised potential speeds and to consider factors affecting speed that may be outside the control of a broadband provider;
(3) to compare, using comparable metrics and standards, the availability and quality of broadband offerings in the United States with the availability and quality of broadband offerings in other industrialized nations, including countries that are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; and
(4) to distinguish between complementary and substitutable broadband offerings in evaluating deployment and penetration.
(b) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce on the results of the study, with recommendations for how industry and the Federal Communications Commission can use such metrics and comparisons to improve the quality of broadband data and to better evaluate the deployment and penetration of comparable broadband service at comparable rates across all regions of the Nation.
SEC. 5105. STUDY ON THE IMPACT OF BROADBAND SPEED AND PRICE ON SMALL BUSINESSES.
(a) In General.—The Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy shall conduct a study evaluating the impact of broadband speed and price on small businesses.
(b) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Office shall submit a report to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the House of Representatives Committee on Small Business on the results of the study, including—
(1) a survey of broadband speeds available to small businesses;
(2) a survey of the cost of broadband speeds available to small businesses;
(3) a survey of the type of broadband technology used by small businesses; and
(4) any policy recommendations that may improve small businesses access to comparable broadband services at comparable rates in all regions of the Nation.
SEC. 5106. ENCOURAGING STATE INITIATIVES TO IMPROVE BROADBAND.
(a) Purposes.—The purposes of any grant under subsection (b) are—
(1) to ensure that all citizens and businesses in a State have access to affordable and reliable broadband service;
(2) to achieve improved technology literacy, increased computer ownership, and broadband use among such citizens and businesses;
(3) to establish and empower local grassroots technology teams in each State to plan for improved technology use across multiple community sectors; and
(4) to establish and sustain an environment ripe for broadband services and information technology investment.
(b) Establishment Of State Broadband Data And Development Grant Program.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Commerce shall award grants, taking into account the results of the peer review process under subsection (d), to eligible entities for the development and implementation of statewide initiatives to identify and track the availability and adoption of broadband services within each State.
(2) COMPETITIVE BASIS.—Any grant under subsection (b) shall be awarded on a competitive basis.
(c) Eligibility.—To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b), an eligible entity shall—
(1) submit an application to the Secretary of Commerce, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require;
(2) contribute matching non-Federal funds in an amount equal to not less than 20 percent of the total amount of the grant; and
(3) agree to comply with confidentiality requirements in subsection (h)(2) of this section.
(d) Peer Review; Nondisclosure.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall by regulation require appropriate technical and scientific peer review of applications made for grants under this section.
(2) REVIEW PROCEDURES.—The regulations required under paragraph (1) shall require that any technical and scientific peer review group—
(A) be provided a written description of the grant to be reviewed;
(B) provide the results of any review by such group to the Secretary of Commerce; and
(C) certify that such group will enter into voluntary nondisclosure agreements as necessary to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information provided by broadband service providers in connection with projects funded by any such grant.
(e) Use Of Funds.—A grant awarded to an eligible entity under subsection (b) shall be used—
(1) to provide a baseline assessment of broadband service deployment in each State;
(2) to identify and track—
(A) areas in each State that have low levels of broadband service deployment;
(B) the rate at which residential and business users adopt broadband service and other related information technology services; and
(C) possible suppliers of such services;
(3) to identify barriers to the adoption by individuals and businesses of broadband service and related information technology services, including whether or not—
(A) the demand for such services is absent; and
(B) the supply for such services is capable of meeting the demand for such services;
(4) to identify the speeds of broadband connections made available to individuals and businesses within the State, and, at a minimum, to rely on the data rate benchmarks for broadband service utilized by the Commission to reflect different speed tiers, to promote greater consistency of data among the States;
(5) to create and facilitate in each county or designated region in a State a local technology planning team—
(A) with members representing a cross section of the community, including representatives of business, telecommunications labor organizations, K–12 education, health care, libraries, higher education, community-based organizations, local government, tourism, parks and recreation, and agriculture; and
(B) which shall—
(i) benchmark technology use across relevant community sectors;
(ii) set goals for improved technology use within each sector; and
(iii) develop a tactical business plan for achieving its goals, with specific recommendations for online application development and demand creation;
(6) to work collaboratively with broadband service providers and information technology companies to encourage deployment and use, especially in unserved areas and areas in which broadband penetration is significantly below the national average, through the use of local demand aggregation, mapping analysis, and the creation of market intelligence to improve the business case for providers to deploy;
(7) to establish programs to improve computer ownership and Internet access for unserved areas and areas in which broadband penetration is significantly below the national average;
(8) to collect and analyze detailed market data concerning the use and demand for broadband service and related information technology services;
(9) to facilitate information exchange regarding the use and demand for broadband services between public and private sectors; and
(10) to create within each State a geographic inventory map of broadband service, including the data rate benchmarks for broadband service utilized by the Commission to reflect different speed tiers, which shall—
(A) identify gaps in such service through a method of geographic information system mapping of service availability based on the geographic boundaries of where service is available or unavailable among residential or business customers; and
(B) provide a baseline assessment of statewide broadband deployment in terms of households with high-speed availability.
(f) Participation Limit.—For each State, an eligible entity may not receive a new grant under this section to fund the activities described in subsection (d) within such State if such organization obtained prior grant awards under this section to fund the same activities in that State in each of the previous 4 consecutive years.
(g) Reporting; Broadband Inventory Map.—The Secretary of Commerce shall—
(1) require each recipient of a grant under subsection (b) to submit a report on the use of the funds provided by the grant; and
(2) create a web page on the Department of Commerce website that aggregates relevant information made available to the public by grant recipients, including, where appropriate, hypertext links to any geographic inventory maps created by grant recipients under subsection (e)(10).
(h) Access To Aggregate Data.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), the Commission shall provide eligible entities access, in electronic form, to aggregate data collected by the Commission based on the Form 477 submissions of broadband service providers.
(2) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding any provision of Federal or State law to the contrary, an eligible entity shall treat any matter that is a trade secret, commercial or financial information, or privileged or confidential, as a record not subject to public disclosure except as otherwise mutually agreed to by the broadband service provider and the eligible entity. This paragraph applies only to information submitted by the Commission or a broadband provider to carry out the provisions of this part and shall not otherwise limit or affect the rules governing public disclosure of information collected by any Federal or State entity under any other Federal or State law or regulation.
(i) Definitions.—In this section:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term “Commission” means the Federal Communications Commission.
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term “eligible entity” means—
(A) an entity that is either—
(i) an agency or instrumentality of a State, or a municipality or other subdivision (or agency or instrumentality of a municipality or other subdivision) of a State;
(ii) a nonprofit organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code; or
(iii) an independent agency or commission in which an office of a State is a member on behalf of the State; and
(B) is the single eligible entity in the State that has been designated by the State to receive a grant under this section.
(j) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.
(k) No Regulatory Authority.—Nothing in this section shall be construed as giving any public or private entity established or affected by this part any regulatory jurisdiction or oversight authority over providers of broadband services or information technology.
PART II—TRAINING FOR REALTIME WRITERS ACT OF 2007
SEC. 5111. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “Training for Realtime Writers Act of 2007”.
SEC. 5112. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) As directed by Congress in section 713 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 613), as added by section 305 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–104; 110 Stat. 126), the Federal Communications Commission began enforcing rules requiring full closed captioning of most English television programming on January 1, 2006.
(2) The Federal Communications Commission rules also require that video programming be fully captioned in Spanish by 2010.
(3) More than 30,000,000 Americans are considered deaf or hard of hearing, and many require captioning services to participate in mainstream activities.
(4) The National Institute on Deafness and other Communication Disorders estimates that 1 in 3 Americans over the age of 60 has already experienced hearing loss. The 79,000,000 Americans who are identified as “baby boomers” represent 39 percent of the population of the United States and most baby boomers began to reach age 60 just in the last few years.
(5) Closed captioning is a continuous source of emergency information for people in mass transit and other congregate settings.
(6) Empirical research studies since 1988 demonstrate that captions improve the performance of individuals learning to read English.
SEC. 5113. AUTHORIZATION OF GRANT PROGRAM TO PROMOTE TRAINING AND JOB PLACEMENT OF REALTIME WRITERS.
(a) In General.—The Assistant Secretary for Information and Communications of the Department of Commerce shall make competitive grants to eligible entities under subsection (b) to promote training and placement of individuals, including individuals who have completed a court reporting training program, as realtime writers in order to meet the requirements for closed captioning of video programming set forth in section 713 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 613) and the rules prescribed thereunder.
(b) Eligible Entities.—For purposes of this part, an eligible entity is a court reporting program that—
(1) can document and demonstrate to the Assistant Secretary that it meets minimum standards of educational and financial accountability, with a curriculum capable of training realtime writers qualified to provide captioning services;
(2) is accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Department of Education; and
(3) is participating in student aid programs under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
(c) Priority In Grants.—In determining whether to make grants under this section, the Assistant Secretary shall give a priority to eligible entities that, as determined by the Assistant Secretary—
(1) possess the most substantial capability to increase their capacity to train realtime writers;
(2) demonstrate the most promising collaboration with local educational institutions, businesses, labor organizations, or other community groups having the potential to train or provide job placement assistance to realtime writers; or
(3) propose the most promising and innovative approaches for initiating or expanding training or job placement assistance efforts with respect to realtime writers.
(d) Duration Of Grant.—A grant under this section shall be for a period of 2 years.
(e) Maximum Amount Of Grant.—The amount of a grant provided under subsection (a) to an entity eligible may not exceed $1,500,000 for the 2-year period of the grant under subsection (d).
SEC. 5114. APPLICATION.
(a) In General.—To receive a grant under section 5113, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Assistant Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Assistant Secretary may require. The application shall contain the information set forth under subsection (b).
(b) Information.—Information in the application of an eligible entity under subsection (a) for a grant under section 5113 shall include the following:
(1) A description of the training and assistance to be funded using the grant amount, including how such training and assistance will increase the number of realtime writers.
(2) A description of performance measures to be utilized to evaluate the progress of individuals receiving such training and assistance in matters relating to enrollment, completion of training, and job placement and retention.
(3) A description of the manner in which the eligible entity will ensure that recipients of scholarships, if any, funded by the grant will be employed and retained as realtime writers.
(4) A description of the manner in which the eligible entity intends to continue providing the training and assistance to be funded by the grant after the end of the grant period, including any partnerships or arrangements established for that purpose.
(5) A description of how the eligible entity will work with local workforce investment boards to ensure that training and assistance to be funded with the grant will further local workforce goals, including the creation of educational opportunities for individuals who are from economically disadvantaged backgrounds or are displaced workers.
(6) Additional information, if any, of the eligibility of the eligible entity for priority in the making of grants under section 5113(c).
(7) Such other information as the Assistant Secretary may require.
SEC. 5115. USE OF FUNDS.
(a) In General.—An eligible entity receiving a grant under section 5113 shall use the grant amount for purposes relating to the recruitment, training and assistance, and job placement of individuals, including individuals who have completed a court reporting training program, as realtime writers, including—
(1) recruitment;
(2) subject to subsection (b), the provision of scholarships;
(3) distance learning;
(4) further developing and implementing both English and Spanish curriculum to more effectively train realtime writing skills, and education in the knowledge necessary for the delivery of high-quality closed captioning services;
(5) mentoring students to ensure successful completion of the realtime training and provide assistance in job placement;
(6) encouraging individuals with disabilities to pursue a career in realtime writing; and
(7) the employment and payment of personnel for all such purposes.
(b) Scholarships.—
(1) AMOUNT.—The amount of a scholarship under subsection (a)(2) shall be based on the amount of need of the recipient of the scholarship for financial assistance, as determined in accordance with part F of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087kk).
(2) AGREEMENT.—Each recipient of a scholarship under subsection (a)(2) shall enter into an agreement with the school in which the recipient is enrolled to provide realtime writing services for a period of time appropriate (as determined by the Assistant Secretary or the Assistant Secretary's designee) for the amount of the scholarship received.
(3) COURSEWORK AND EMPLOYMENT.—The Assistant Secretary or the Assistant Secretary's designee shall establish requirements for coursework and employment for recipients of scholarships under subsection (a)(2), including requirements for repayment of scholarship amounts in the event of failure to meet such requirements for coursework and employment or other material terms under subsection (b)(2). Requirements for repayment of scholarship amounts shall take into account the effect of economic conditions on the capacity of scholarship recipients to find work as realtime writers.
(c) Administrative Costs.—The recipient of a grant under section 5113 may not use more than 5 percent of the grant amount to pay administrative costs associated with activities funded by the grant. The Assistant Secretary shall use not more than 5 percent of the amount available for grants under this part in any fiscal year for administrative costs of the program.
(d) Supplement Not Supplant.—Grants amounts under this part shall supplement and not supplant other Federal or non-Federal funds of the grant recipient for purposes of promoting the training and placement of individuals as realtime writers.
SEC. 5116. REPORTS.
(a) Annual Reports.—Each eligible entity receiving a grant under section 5113 shall submit to the Assistant Secretary, at the end of each year of the grant period, a report on the activities of such entity with respect to the use of grant amounts during such year.
(b) Report Information.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each report of an entity for a year under subsection (a) shall include a description of the use of grant amounts by the entity during such year, including an assessment by the entity of the effectiveness of activities carried out using such funds in increasing the number of realtime writers. The assessment shall utilize the performance measures submitted by the entity in the application for the grant under section 5114(b).
(2) FINAL REPORT.—The final report of an entity on a grant under subsection (a) shall include a description of the best practices identified by the entity as a result of the grant for increasing the number of individuals who are trained, employed, and retained in employment as realtime writers.
(c) Annual Review.—The Inspector General of the Department of Commerce shall conduct an annual review of the management, efficiency, and effectiveness of the grants made under this part.
SEC. 5117. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce to carry out this part $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012.
SEC. 5118. SUNSET.
This part is repealed 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle B—Oceans
PART I—HYDROGRAPHIC SERVICES IMPROVEMENT ACT AMENDMENTS OF 2008
SEC. 5201. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “Hydrographic Services Improvement Act Amendments of 2008”.
SEC. 5202. DEFINITIONS.
Section 303 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892) is amended by striking paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) and inserting the following:
“(3) HYDROGRAPHIC DATA.—The term ‘hydrographic data’ means information that—
“(A) is acquired through—
“(i) hydrographic, bathymetric, photogrammetric, lidar, radar, remote sensing, or shoreline and other ocean- and coastal-related surveying;
“(ii) geodetic, geospatial, or geomagnetic measurements;
“(iii) tide, water level, and current observations; or
“(iv) other methods; and
“(B) is used in providing hydrographic services.
“(4) HYDROGRAPHIC SERVICES.—The term ‘hydrographic services’ means——
“(A) the management, maintenance, interpretation, certification, and dissemination of bathymetric, hydrographic, shoreline, geodetic, geospatial, geomagnetic, and tide, water level, and current information, including the production of nautical charts, nautical information databases, and other products derived from hydrographic data;
“(B) the development of nautical information systems; and
“(C) related activities.
“(5) COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY ACT.—The term ‘Coast and Geodetic Survey Act’ means the Act entitled ‘An Act to define the functions and duties of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and for other purposes’, approved August 6, 1947 (33 U.S.C. 883a et seq.).”.
SEC. 5203. FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
Section 303 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892a) is amended—
(1) by striking “the Act of 1947,” in subsection (a) and inserting “the Coast and Geodetic Survey Act, promote safe, efficient and environmentally sound marine transportation, and otherwise fulfill the purposes of this Act,”;
(2) by striking “data;” in subsection (a)(1) and inserting “data and provide hydrographic services;” and
(3) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
“(b) Authorities.—To fulfill the data gathering and dissemination duties of the Administration under the Coast and Geodetic Survey Act, promote safe, efficient, and environmentally sound marine transportation, and otherwise fulfill the purposes of this Act, subject to the availability of appropriations, the Administrator—
“(1) may procure, lease, evaluate, test, develop, and operate vessels, equipment, and technologies necessary to ensure safe navigation and maintain operational expertise in hydrographic data acquisition and hydrographic services;
“(2) shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, design, install, maintain, and operate real-time hydrographic monitoring systems to enhance navigation safety and efficiency; and
“(3) where appropriate and to the extent that it does not detract from the promotion of safe and efficient navigation, may acquire hydrographic data and provide hydrographic services to support the conservation and management of coastal and ocean resources;
“(4) where appropriate, may acquire hydrographic data and provide hydrographic services to save and protect life and property and support the resumption of commerce in response to emergencies, natural and man-made disasters, and homeland security and maritime domain awareness needs, including obtaining mission assignments (as defined in section 641 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 741));
“(5) may create, support, and maintain such joint centers with other Federal agencies and other entities as the Administrator deems appropriate or necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act; and
“(6) notwithstanding the existence of such joint centers, shall award contracts for the acquisition of hydrographic data in accordance with subchapter VI of chapter 10 of title 40, United States Code.”.
SEC. 5204. HYDROGRAPHIC SERVICES REVIEW PANEL.
Section 305(c)(1)(A) of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892c(c)(1)(A)) is amended to read as follows: “(A) The panel shall consist of 15 voting members who shall be appointed by the Administrator. The Co-directors of the Center for Coastal and Ocean Mapping/Joint Hydrographic Center and no more than 2 employees of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration appointed by the Administrator shall serve as nonvoting members of the panel. The voting members of the panel shall be individuals who, by reason of knowledge, experience, or training, are especially qualified in 1 or more of the disciplines and fields relating to hydrographic data and hydrographic services, marine transportation, port administration, vessel pilotage, coastal and fishery management, and other disciplines as determined appropriate by the Administrator.”.
SEC. 5205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 306 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892d) is amended to read as follows:
“SEC. 306. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
“There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator the following:
“(1) To carry out nautical mapping and charting functions under sections 304 and 305, except for conducting hydrographic surveys—
“(A) $55,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(B) $56,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(C) $57,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(D) $58,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.
“(2) To contract for hydrographic surveys under section 304(b)(1), including the leasing or time chartering of vessels—
“(A) $32,130,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(B) $32,760,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(C) $33,390,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(D) $34,020,000 for fiscal year 2012.
“(3) To operate hydrographic survey vessels owned by the United States and operated by the Administration—
“(A) $25,900,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(B) $26,400,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(C) $26,900,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(D) $27,400,000 for fiscal year 2012.
“(4) To carry out geodetic functions under this title—
“(A) $32,640,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(B) $33,280,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(C) $33,920,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(D) $34,560,000 for fiscal year 2012.
“(5) To carry out tide and current measurement functions under this title—
“(A) $27,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(B) $27,500,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(C) $28,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
“(D) $28,500,000 for fiscal year 2012.
“(6) To acquire a replacement hydrographic survey vessel capable of staying at sea continuously for at least 30 days $75,000,000.”.
SEC. 5206. AUTHORIZED NOAA CORPS STRENGTH.
Section 215 of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3005) is amended to read as follows:
“SEC. 215. NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.
“Effective October 1, 2009, the total number of authorized commissioned officers on the lineal list of the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall be increased from 321 to 379 if—
“(1) the Secretary has submitted to the Congress—
“(A) the Administration's ship recapitalization plan for fiscal years 2010 through 2024;
“(B) the Administration's aircraft remodernization plan; and
“(C) supporting workforce management plans;
“(2) appropriated funding is available; and
“(3) the Secretary has justified organizational needs for the commissioned corps for each such fiscal year.”
PART II—OCEAN EXPLORATION
Subpart A—Exploration
SEC. 5211. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subpart is to establish the national ocean exploration program and the national undersea research program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
SEC. 5212. PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
The Administrator or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall, in consultation with the National Science Foundation and other appropriate Federal agencies, establish a coordinated national ocean exploration program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration that promotes collaboration with other Federal ocean and undersea research and exploration programs. To the extent appropriate, the Administrator shall seek to facilitate coordination of data and information management systems, outreach and education programs to improve public understanding of ocean and coastal resources, and development and transfer of technologies to facilitate ocean and undersea research and exploration.
SEC. 5213. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
(a) In General.—In carrying out the program authorized by section 5212, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall—
(1) conduct interdisciplinary voyages or other scientific activities in conjunction with other Federal agencies or academic or educational institutions, to explore and survey little known areas of the marine environment, inventory, observe, and assess living and nonliving marine resources, and report such findings;
(2) give priority attention to deep ocean regions, with a focus on deep water marine systems that hold potential for important scientific discoveries, such as hydrothermal vent communities and seamounts;
(3) conduct scientific voyages to locate, define, and document historic shipwrecks, submerged sites, and other ocean exploration activities that combine archaeology and oceanographic sciences;
(4) develop and implement, in consultation with the National Science Foundation, a transparent, competitive process for merit-based peer-review and approval of proposals for activities to be conducted under this program, taking into consideration advice of the Board established under section 5215;
(5) enhance the technical capability of the United States marine science community by promoting the development of improved oceanographic research, communication, navigation, and data collection systems, as well as underwater platforms and sensor and autonomous vehicles; and
(6) establish an ocean exploration forum to encourage partnerships and promote communication among experts and other stakeholders in order to enhance the scientific and technical expertise and relevance of the national program.
(b) Donations.—The Administrator may accept donations of property, data, and equipment to be applied for the purpose of exploring the oceans or increasing knowledge of the oceans.
SEC. 5214. OCEAN EXPLORATION AND UNDERSEA RESEARCH TECHNOLOGY AND INFRASTRUCTURE TASK FORCE.
(a) In General.—The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in coordination with the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the United States Geological Survey, the Department of the Navy, the Mineral Management Service, and relevant governmental, non-governmental, academic, industry, and other experts, shall convene an ocean exploration and undersea research technology and infrastructure task force to develop and implement a strategy—
(1) to facilitate transfer of new exploration and undersea research technology to the programs authorized under this subpart and subpart B of this part;
(2) to improve availability of communications infrastructure, including satellite capabilities, to such programs;
(3) to develop an integrated, workable, and comprehensive data management information processing system that will make information on unique and significant features obtained by such programs available for research and management purposes;
(4) to conduct public outreach activities that improve the public understanding of ocean science, resources, and processes, in conjunction with relevant programs of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Science Foundation, and other agencies; and
(5) to encourage cost-sharing partnerships with governmental and nongovernmental entities that will assist in transferring exploration and undersea research technology and technical expertise to the programs.
(b) Budget Coordination.—The task force shall coordinate the development of agency budgets and identify the items in their annual budget that support the activities identified in the strategy developed under subsection (a).
SEC. 5215. OCEAN EXPLORATION ADVISORY BOARD.
(a) Establishment.—The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall appoint an Ocean Exploration Advisory Board composed of experts in relevant fields—
(1) to advise the Administrator on priority areas for survey and discovery;
(2) to assist the program in the development of a 5-year strategic plan for the fields of ocean, marine, and Great Lakes science, exploration, and discovery;
(3) to annually review the quality and effectiveness of the proposal review process established under section 5213(a)(4); and
(4) to provide other assistance and advice as requested by the Administrator.
(b) Federal Advisory Committee Act.—Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Board appointed under subsection (a).
(c) Application With Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.—Nothing in subpart supersedes, or limits the authority of the Secretary of the Interior under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.).
SEC. 5216. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to carry out this subpart—
(1) $33,550,000 for fiscal year 2009;
(2) $36,905,000 for fiscal year 2010;
(3) $40,596,000 for fiscal year 2011;
(4) $44,655,000 for fiscal year 2012;
(5) $49,121,000 for fiscal year 2013;
(6) $54,033,000 for fiscal year 2014; and
(7) $59,436,000 for fiscal year 2015.
Subpart B—NOAA Undersea Research Program Act Of 2008
SEC. 5221. SHORT TITLE.
This subpart may be cited as the “NOAA Undersea Research Program Act of 2008”.
SEC. 5222. PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
(a) In General.—The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall establish and maintain an undersea research program and shall designate a Director of that program.
(b) Purpose.—The purpose of the program is to increase scientific knowledge essential for the informed management, use, and preservation of oceanic, marine, and coastal areas and the Great Lakes.
SEC. 5223. POWERS OF PROGRAM DIRECTOR.
The Director of the program, in carrying out the program, shall—
(1) cooperate with institutions of higher education and other educational marine and ocean science organizations, and shall make available undersea research facilities, equipment, technologies, information, and expertise to support undersea research efforts by these organizations;
(2) enter into partnerships, as appropriate and using existing authorities, with the private sector to achieve the goals of the program and to promote technological advancement of the marine industry; and
(3) coordinate the development of agency budgets and identify the items in their annual budget that support the activities described in paragraphs (1) and (2).
SEC. 5224. ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE.
(a) In General.—The program shall be conducted through a national headquarters, a network of extramural regional undersea research centers that represent all relevant National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration regions, and the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology.
(b) Direction.—The Director shall develop the overall direction of the program in coordination with a Council of Center Directors comprised of the directors of the extramural regional centers and the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology. The Director shall publish a draft program direction document not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act in the Federal Register for a public comment period of not less than 120 days. The Director shall publish a final program direction, including responses to the comments received during the public comment period, in the Federal Register within 90 days after the close of the comment period. The program director shall update the program direction, with opportunity for public comment, at least every 5 years.
SEC. 5225. RESEARCH, EXPLORATION, EDUCATION, AND TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.
(a) In General.—The following research, exploration, education, and technology programs shall be conducted through the network of regional centers and the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology:
(1) Core research and exploration based on national and regional undersea research priorities.
(2) Advanced undersea technology development to support the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's research mission and programs.
(3) Undersea science-based education and outreach programs to enrich ocean science education and public awareness of the oceans and Great Lakes.
(4) Development, testing, and transition of advanced undersea technology associated with ocean observatories, submersibles, advanced diving technologies, remotely operated vehicles, autonomous underwater vehicles, and new sampling and sensing technologies.
(5) Discovery, study, and development of natural resources and products from ocean, coastal, and aquatic systems.
(b) Operations.—The Director of the program, through operation of the extramural regional centers and the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology, shall leverage partnerships and cooperative research with academia and private industry.
SEC. 5226. COMPETITIVENESS.
(a) Discretionary Fund.—The Program shall allocate no more than 10 percent of its annual budget to a discretionary fund that may be used only for program administration and priority undersea research projects identified by the Director but not covered by funding available from centers.
(b) Competitive Selection.—The Administrator shall conduct an initial competition to select the regional centers that will participate in the program 90 days after the publication of the final program direction under section 5224 and every 5 years thereafter. Funding for projects conducted through the regional centers shall be awarded through a competitive, merit-reviewed process on the basis of their relevance to the goals of the program and their technical feasibility.
SEC. 5227. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration—
(1) for fiscal year 2009—
(A) $13,750,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $5,500,000 for the National Technology Institute;
(2) for fiscal year 2010—
(A) $15,125,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $6,050,000 for the National Technology Institute;
(3) for fiscal year 2011—
(A) $16,638,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $6,655,000 for the National Technology Institute;
(4) for fiscal year 2012—
(A) $18,301,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $7,321,000 for the National Technology Institute;
(5) for fiscal year 2013—
(A) $20,131,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $8,053,000 for the National Technology Institute;
(6) for fiscal year 2014—
(A) $22,145,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $8,859,000 for the National Technology Institute; and
(7) for fiscal year 2015—
(A) $24,359,000 for the regional centers, of which 50 percent shall be for West Coast regional centers and 50 percent shall be for East Coast regional centers; and
(B) $9,744,000 for the National Technology Institute.
PART III—OCEAN AND COASTAL MAPPING INTEGRATION ACT
SEC. 5231. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “Ocean and Coastal Mapping Integration Act”.
SEC. 5232. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
(a) In General.—The President, in coordination with the Interagency Committee on Ocean and Coastal Mapping and affected coastal states, shall establish a program to develop a coordinated and comprehensive Federal ocean and coastal mapping plan for the Great Lakes and coastal state waters, the territorial sea, the exclusive economic zone, and the continental shelf of the United States that enhances ecosystem approaches in decision-making for conservation and management of marine resources and habitats, establishes research and mapping priorities, supports the siting of research and other platforms, and advances ocean and coastal science.
(b) Membership.—The Committee shall be comprised of high-level representatives of the Department of Commerce, through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Department of Interior, the National Science Foundation, the Department of Defense, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Homeland Security, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and other appropriate Federal agencies involved in ocean and coastal mapping.
(c) Program Parameters.—In developing such a program, the President, through the Committee, shall—
(1) identify all Federal and federally-funded programs conducting shoreline delineation and ocean or coastal mapping, noting geographic coverage, frequency, spatial coverage, resolution, and subject matter focus of the data and location of data archives;
(2) facilitate cost-effective, cooperative mapping efforts that incorporate policies for contracting with non-governmental entities among all Federal agencies conducting ocean and coastal mapping, by increasing data sharing, developing appropriate data acquisition and metadata standards, and facilitating the interoperability of in situ data collection systems, data processing, archiving, and distribution of data products;
(3) facilitate the adaptation of existing technologies as well as foster expertise in new ocean and coastal mapping technologies, including through research, development, and training conducted among Federal agencies and in cooperation with non-governmental entities;
(4) develop standards and protocols for testing innovative experimental mapping technologies and transferring new technologies between the Federal Government, coastal state, and non-governmental entities;
(5) provide for the archiving, management, and distribution of data sets through a national registry as well as provide mapping products and services to the general public in service of statutory requirements;
(6) develop data standards and protocols consistent with standards developed by the Federal Geographic Data Committee for use by Federal, coastal state, and other entities in mapping and otherwise documenting locations of federally permitted activities, living and nonliving coastal and marine resources, marine ecosystems, sensitive habitats, submerged cultural resources, undersea cables, offshore aquaculture projects, offshore energy projects, and any areas designated for purposes of environmental protection or conservation and management of living and nonliving coastal and marine resources;
(7) identify the procedures to be used for coordinating the collection and integration of Federal ocean and coastal mapping data with coastal state and local government programs;
(8) facilitate, to the extent practicable, the collection of real-time tide data and the development of hydrodynamic models for coastal areas to allow for the application of V-datum tools that will facilitate the seamless integration of onshore and offshore maps and charts;
(9) establish a plan for the acquisition and collection of ocean and coastal mapping data; and
(10) set forth a timetable for completion and implementation of the plan.
SEC. 5233. INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE ON OCEAN AND COASTAL MAPPING.
(a) In General.—The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, within 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, shall convene or utilize an existing interagency committee on ocean and coastal mapping to implement section 5232.
(b) Membership.—The committee shall be comprised of senior representatives from Federal agencies with ocean and coastal mapping and surveying responsibilities. The representatives shall be high-ranking officials of their respective agencies or departments and, whenever possible, the head of the portion of the agency or department that is most relevant to the purposes of this part. Membership shall include senior representatives from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Chief of Naval Operations, the United States Geological Survey, the Minerals Management Service, the National Science Foundation, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and other appropriate Federal agencies involved in ocean and coastal mapping.
(c) Co-Chairmen.—The Committee shall be co-chaired by the representative of the Department of Commerce and a representative of the Department of the Interior.
(d) Subcommittee.—The co-chairmen shall establish a subcommittee to carry out the day-to-day work of the Committee, comprised of senior representatives of any member agency of the committee. Working groups may be formed by the full Committee to address issues of short duration. The subcommittee shall be chaired by the representative from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The chairmen of the Committee may create such additional subcommittees and working groups as may be needed to carry out the work of Committee.
(e) Meetings.—The committee shall meet on a quarterly basis, but each subcommittee and each working group shall meet on an as-needed basis.
(f) Coordination.—The committee shall coordinate activities when appropriate, with—
(1) other Federal efforts, including the Digital Coast, Geospatial One-Stop, and the Federal Geographic Data Committee;
(2) international mapping activities;
(3) coastal states;
(4) user groups through workshops and other appropriate mechanisms; and
(5) representatives of nongovernmental entities.
(g) Advisory Panel.—The Administrator may convene an ocean and coastal mapping advisory panel consisting of representatives from non-governmental entities to provide input regarding activities of the committee in consultation with the interagency committee.
SEC. 5234. BIANNUAL REPORTS.
No later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and biannually thereafter, the co-chairmen of the Committee shall transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report detailing progress made in implementing this part, including—
(1) an inventory of ocean and coastal mapping data within the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone and throughout the Continental Shelf of the United States, noting the age and source of the survey and the spatial resolution (metadata) of the data;
(2) identification of priority areas in need of survey coverage using present technologies;
(3) a resource plan that identifies when priority areas in need of modern ocean and coastal mapping surveys can be accomplished;
(4) the status of efforts to produce integrated digital maps of ocean and coastal areas;
(5) a description of any products resulting from coordinated mapping efforts under this part that improve public understanding of the coasts and oceans, or regulatory decisionmaking;
(6) documentation of minimum and desired standards for data acquisition and integrated metadata;
(7) a statement of the status of Federal efforts to leverage mapping technologies, coordinate mapping activities, share expertise, and exchange data;
(8) a statement of resource requirements for organizations to meet the goals of the program, including technology needs for data acquisition, processing, and distribution systems;
(9) a statement of the status of efforts to declassify data gathered by the Navy, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and other agencies to the extent possible without jeopardizing national security, and make it available to partner agencies and the public;
(10) a resource plan for a digital coast integrated mapping pilot project for the northern Gulf of Mexico that will—
(A) cover the area from the authorized coastal counties through the territorial sea;
(B) identify how such a pilot project will leverage public and private mapping data and resources, such as the United States Geological Survey National Map, to result in an operational coastal change assessment program for the subregion;
(11) the status of efforts to coordinate Federal programs with coastal state and local government programs and leverage those programs;
(12) a description of efforts of Federal agencies to increase contracting with nongovernmental entities; and
(13) an inventory and description of any new Federal or federally funded programs conducting shoreline delineation and ocean or coastal mapping since the previous reporting cycle.
SEC. 5235. PLAN.
(a) In General.—Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with the Committee, shall develop and submit to the Congress a plan for an integrated ocean and coastal mapping initiative within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(b) Plan Requirements.—The plan shall—
(1) identify and describe all ocean and coastal mapping programs within the agency, including those that conduct mapping or related activities in the course of existing missions, such as hydrographic surveys, ocean exploration projects, living marine resource conservation and management programs, coastal zone management projects, and ocean and coastal observations and science projects;
(2) establish priority mapping programs and establish and periodically update priorities for geographic areas in surveying and mapping across all missions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, as well as minimum data acquisition and metadata standards for those programs;
(3) encourage the development of innovative ocean and coastal mapping technologies and applications, through research and development through cooperative or other agreements with joint or cooperative research institutes or centers and with other non-governmental entities;
(4) document available and developing technologies, best practices in data processing and distribution, and leveraging opportunities with other Federal agencies, coastal states, and non-governmental entities;
(5) identify training, technology, and other resource requirements for enabling the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's programs, vessels, and aircraft to support a coordinated ocean and coastal mapping program;
(6) identify a centralized mechanism or office for coordinating data collection, processing, archiving, and dissemination activities of all such mapping programs within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration that meets Federal mandates for data accuracy and accessibility and designate a repository that is responsible for archiving and managing the distribution of all ocean and coastal mapping data to simplify the provision of services to benefit Federal and coastal state programs; and
(7) set forth a timetable for implementation and completion of the plan, including a schedule for submission to the Congress of periodic progress reports and recommendations for integrating approaches developed under the initiative into the interagency program.
(c) NOAA Joint Ocean And Coastal Mapping Centers.—The Administrator may maintain and operate up to 3 joint ocean and coastal mapping centers, including a joint hydrographic center, which shall each be co-located with an institution of higher education. The centers shall serve as hydrographic centers of excellence and may conduct activities necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including—
(1) research and development of innovative ocean and coastal mapping technologies, equipment, and data products;
(2) mapping of the United States Outer Continental Shelf and other regions;
(3) data processing for nontraditional data and uses;
(4) advancing the use of remote sensing technologies, for related issues, including mapping and assessment of essential fish habitat and of coral resources, ocean observations, and ocean exploration; and
(5) providing graduate education and training in ocean and coastal mapping sciences for members of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps, personnel of other agencies with ocean and coastal mapping programs, and civilian personnel.
(d) NOAA Report.—The Administrator shall continue developing a strategy for expanding contracting with non-governmental entities to minimize duplication and take maximum advantage of nongovernmental capabilities in fulfilling the Administration's mapping and charting responsibilities. Within 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit a report describing the strategy developed under this subsection to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 5236. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to supersede or alter the existing authorities of any Federal agency with respect to ocean and coastal mapping.
SEC. 5237. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) In General.—In addition to the amounts authorized by section 306 of the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892d), there are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this part—
(1) $26,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
(2) $32,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
(3) $38,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
(4) $45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2015.
(b) Joint Ocean And Coastal Mapping Centers.—Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (a), the following amounts shall be used to carry out section 5235(c) of this part:
(1) $11,000,000 for fiscal year 2009.
(2) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2010.
(3) $13,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.
(4) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2015.
(c) Cooperative Agreements.—To carry out interagency activities under section 5233 of this part, the head of any department or agency may execute a cooperative agreement with the Administrator, including those authorized by section 5 of the Act of August 6, 1947 (33 U.S.C. 883e).
SEC. 5238. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term “Administrator”' means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(2) COASTAL STATE.—The term “coastal state” has the meaning given that term by section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(4).
(3) COMMITTEE.—The term “Committee” means the Interagency Ocean Mapping Committee established by section 5233.
(4) EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE.—The term “exclusive economic zone” means the exclusive economic zone of the United States established by Presidential Proclamation No. 5030, of March 10, 1983.
(5) OCEAN AND COASTAL MAPPING.—The term “ocean and coastal mapping” means the acquisition, processing, and management of physical, biological, geological, chemical, and archaeological characteristics and boundaries of ocean and coastal areas, resources, and sea beds through the use of acoustics, satellites, aerial photogrammetry, light and imaging, direct sampling, and other mapping technologies.
(6) TERRITORIAL SEA.—The term “territorial sea” means the belt of sea measured from the baseline of the United States determined in accordance with international law, as set forth in Presidential Proclamation Number 5928, dated December 27, 1988.
(7) NONGOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES.—The term “nongovernmental entities” includes nongovernmental organizations, members of the academic community, and private sector organizations that provide products and services associated with measuring, locating, and preparing maps, charts, surveys, aerial photographs, satellite imagines, or other graphical or digital presentations depicting natural or manmade physical features, phenomena, and legal boundaries of the Earth.
(8) OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.—The term “Outer Continental Shelf” means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of lands beneath navigable waters (as that term is defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301)), and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.
PART IV—NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008
SEC. 5241. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “National Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act of 2008”.
SEC. 5242. REFERENCES.
Except as otherwise expressly provided therein, whenever in this part an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of the National Sea Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1121 et seq.).
SEC. 5243. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
(a) Findings.—Section 202(a) (33 U.S.C. 1121(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking subparagraphs (D) and (E) of paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
“(D) encourage the development of preparation, forecast, analysis, mitigation, response, and recovery systems for coastal hazards;
“(E) understand global environmental processes and their impacts on ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources; and”;
(2) by striking “program of research, education,” in paragraph (2) and inserting “program of integrated research, education, extension,”; and
(3) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following:
“(6) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, through the national sea grant college program, offers the most suitable locus and means for such commitment and engagement through the promotion of activities that will result in greater such understanding, assessment, development, management, utilization, and conservation of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources. The most cost-effective way to promote such activities is through continued and increased Federal support of the establishment, development, and operation of programs and projects by sea grant colleges, sea grant institutes, and other institutions, including strong collaborations between Administration scientists and research and outreach personnel at academic institutions.”.
(b) Purpose.—Section 202(c) (33 U.S.C. 1121(c)) is amended by striking “to promote research, education, training, and advisory service activities” and inserting “to promote integrated research, education, training, and extension services and activities”.
(c) Terminology.—Subsections (a) and (b) of section 202 (15 U.S.C. 1121(a) and (b)) are amended by inserting “management,” after “development,” each place it appears.
SEC. 5244. DEFINITIONS.
(a) In General.—Section 203 (33 U.S.C. 1122) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4) by inserting “management,” after “development,”;
(2) in paragraph (11) by striking “advisory services” and inserting “extension services”; and
(3) in each of paragraphs (12) and (13) by striking “(33 U.S.C. 1126)”.
(b) Repeal.—Section 307 of the Act entitled “An Act to provide for the designation of the Flower Garden Banks National Marine Sanctuary” (Public Law 102–251; 106 Stat. 66) is repealed.
SEC. 5245. NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM.
(a) Program Elements.—Section 204(b) (33 U.S.C. 1123(b)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
“(1) sea grant programs that comprise a national sea grant college program network, including international projects conducted within such programs and regional and national projects conducted among such programs;”;
(2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
“(2) administration of the national sea grant college program and this title by the national sea grant office and the Administration;”; and
(3) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
“(4) any regional or national strategic investments in fields relating to ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources developed in consultation with the Board and with the approval of the sea grant colleges and the sea grant institutes.”.
(b) Technical Correction.—Section 204(c)(2) (33 U.S.C. 1123(c)(2)) is amended by striking “Within 6 months of the date of enactment of the National Sea Grant College Program Reauthorization Act of 1998, the” and inserting “The”.
(c) Functions Of Director Of National Sea Grant College Program.—Section 204(d) (33 U.S.C. 1123(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking “long range”;
(2) in paragraph (3)(A)—
(A) by striking “(A)(i) evaluate” and inserting “(A) evaluate and assess”;
(B) by striking “activities; and” and inserting “activities;”; and
(C) by striking clause (ii); and
(3) in paragraph (3)(B)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (ii) through (iv) as clauses (iii) through (v), respectively, and by inserting after clause (i) the following:
“(ii) encourage collaborations among sea grant colleges and sea grant institutes to address regional and national priorities established under subsection (c)(1);”;
(B) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated) by striking “encourage” and inserting “ensure”;
(C) in clause (iv) (as so redesignated) by striking “and” after the semicolon;
(D) by inserting after clause (v) (as so redesignated) the following:
“(vi) encourage cooperation with Minority Serving Institutions to enhance collaborative research opportunities and increase the number of such students graduating in NOAA science areas; and”.
SEC. 5246. PROGRAM OR PROJECT GRANTS AND CONTRACTS.
Section 205 (33 U.S.C. 1124) is amended—
(1) by striking “204(c)(4)(F).” in subsection (a) and inserting “204(c)(4)(F) or that are appropriated under section 208(b).”; and
(2) by striking the matter following paragraph (3) in subsection (b) and inserting the following:
“ The total amount that may be provided for grants under this subsection during any fiscal year shall not exceed an amount equal to 5 percent of the total funds appropriated for such year under section 212.”.
SEC. 5247. EXTENSION SERVICES BY SEA GRANT COLLEGES AND SEA GRANT INSTITUTES.
Section 207(a) (33 U.S.C. 1126(a)) is amended in each of paragraphs (2)(B) and (3)(B) by striking “advisory services” and inserting “extension services”.
SEC. 5248. FELLOWSHIPS.
Section 208(a) (33 U.S.C. 1127) is amended—
(1) by striking “Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the National Sea Grant College Program Act Amendments of 2002, and every 2 years thereafter,” in subsection (a) and inserting “Every 2 years,”; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
“(c) Restriction on Use of Funds.—Amounts available for fellowships under this section, including amounts accepted under section 204(c)(4)(F) or appropriated under section 212 to implement this section, shall be used only for award of such fellowships and administrative costs of implementing this section.”
SEC. 5249. NATIONAL SEA GRANT ADVISORY BOARD.
(a) Redesignation Of Sea Grant Review Panel As Board.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—The sea grant review panel established by section 209 of the National Sea Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1128), as in effect before the date of the enactment of this Act, is redesignated as the National Sea Grant Advisory Board.
(2) MEMBERSHIP NOT AFFECTED.—An individual serving as a member of the sea grant review panel immediately before date of the enactment of this Act may continue to serve as a member of the National Sea Grant Advisory Board until the expiration of such member's term under section 209(c) of such Act (33 U.S.C. 1128(c)).
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to such sea grant review panel is deemed to be a reference to the National Sea Grant Advisory Board.
(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 209 (33 U.S.C. 1128) is amended by striking so much as precedes subsection (b) and inserting the following:
“SEC. 209. NATIONAL SEA GRANT ADVISORY BOARD.
“(a) Establishment.—There shall be an independent committee to be known as the National Sea Grant Advisory Board.”.
(B) DEFINITION.—Section 203(9) (33 U.S.C. 1122(9)) is amended to read as follows:
“(9) The term ‘Board’ means the National Sea Grant Advisory Board established under section 209.”;
(C) OTHER PROVISIONS.—The following provisions are each amended by striking “panel” each place it appears and inserting “Board”:
(i) Section 204 (33 U.S.C. 1123).
(ii) Section 207 (33 U.S.C. 1126).
(iii) Section 209 (33 U.S.C. 1128).
(b) Duties.—Section 209(b) (33 U.S.C. 1128(b)) is amended to read as follows:
“(b) Duties.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall advise the Secretary and the Director concerning—
“(A) strategies for utilizing the sea grant college program to address the Nation's highest priorities regarding the understanding, assessment, development, management, utilization, and conservation of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources;
“(B) the designation of sea grant colleges and sea grant institutes; and
“(C) such other matters as the Secretary refers to the Board for review and advice.
“(2) BIENNIAL REPORT.—The Board shall report to the Congress every two years on the state of the national sea grant college program. The Board shall indicate in each such report the progress made toward meeting the priorities identified in the strategic plan in effect under section 204(c). The Secretary shall make available to the Board such information, personnel, and administrative services and assistance as it may reasonably require to carry out its duties under this title.”.
(c) Membership, Terms, And Powers.—Section 209(c)(1) (33 U.S.C. 1128(c)(1)) is amended—
(1) by inserting “coastal management,” after “resource management,”; and
(2) by inserting “management,” after “development,”.
(d) Extension Of Term.—Section 209(c)(3) (33 U.S.C. 1128(c)(3)) is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting the following: “The Director may extend the term of office of a voting member of the Board once by up to 1 year.”.
(e) Establishment Of Subcommittees.—Section 209(c) (33 U.S.C. 1128(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
“(8) The Board may establish such subcommittees as are reasonably necessary to carry out its duties under subsection (b). Such subcommittees may include individuals who are not Board members.”.
SEC. 5250. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 212 of the National Sea Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1131) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a)(1) and inserting the following: “
“(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this title—
“(A) $72,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(B) $75,600,000 for fiscal year 2010;
“(C) $79,380,000 for fiscal year 2011;
“(D) $83,350,000 for fiscal year 2012;
“(E) $87,520,000 for fiscal year 2013; and
“(F) $91,900,000 for fiscal year 2014.”;
(2) in subsection (a)(2)—
(A) by striking “fiscal years 2003 through 2008—” and inserting “fiscal years 2009 through 2014—”;
(B) by striking “biology and control of zebra mussels and other important aquatic” in subparagraph (A) and inserting “biology, prevention, and control of aquatic”; and
(C) by striking “blooms, including Pfiesteria piscicida; and” in subparagraph (C) and inserting “blooms; and”;
(3) in subsection (c)(1) by striking “rating under section 204(d)(3)(A)” and inserting “performance assessments”; and
(4) by striking subsection (c)(2) and inserting the following:
“(2) regional or national strategic investments authorized under section 204(b)(4);”.
PART V—INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION SYSTEM ACT OF 2008
SEC. 5261. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act of 2008”.
SEC. 5262. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this part are to—
(1) establish a national integrated System of ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes observing systems, comprised of Federal and non-Federal components coordinated at the national level by the National Ocean Research Leadership Council and at the regional level by a network of regional information coordination entities, and that includes in situ, remote, and other coastal and ocean observation, technologies, and data management and communication systems, and is designed to address regional and national needs for ocean information, to gather specific data on key coastal, ocean, and Great Lakes variables, and to ensure timely and sustained dissemination and availability of these data to—
(A) support national defense, marine commerce, navigation safety, weather, climate, and marine forecasting, energy siting and production, economic development, ecosystem-based marine, coastal, and Great Lakes resource management, public safety, and public outreach training and education;
(B) promote greater public awareness and stewardship of the Nation's ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources and the general public welfare; and
(C) enable advances in scientific understanding to support the sustainable use, conservation, management, and understanding of healthy ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources;
(2) improve the Nation's capability to measure, track, explain, and predict events related directly and indirectly to weather and climate change, natural climate variability, and interactions between the oceanic and atmospheric environments, including the Great Lakes; and
(3) authorize activities to promote basic and applied research to develop, test, and deploy innovations and improvements in coastal and ocean observation technologies, modeling systems, and other scientific and technological capabilities to improve our conceptual understanding of weather and climate, ocean-atmosphere dynamics, global climate change, physical, chemical, and biological dynamics of the ocean, coastal and Great Lakes environments, and to conserve healthy and restore degraded coastal ecosystems.
SEC. 5263. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term “Administrator” means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere in the Under Secretary's capacity as Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(2) COUNCIL.—The term “Council” means the National Ocean Research Leadership Council established by section 7902 of title 10, United States Code.
(3) FEDERAL ASSETS.—The term “Federal assets” means all relevant non-classified civilian coastal and ocean observations, technologies, and related modeling, research, data management, basic and applied technology research and development, and public education and outreach programs, that are managed by member agencies of the Council.
(4) INTERAGENCY OCEAN OBSERVATION COMMITTEE.—The term “Interagency Ocean Observation Committee” means the committee established under section 5264(c)(2).
(5) NON-FEDERAL ASSETS.—The term “non-Federal assets” means all relevant coastal and ocean observation technologies, related basic and applied technology research and development, and public education and outreach programs that are integrated into the System and are managed through States, regional organizations, universities, nongovernmental organizations, or the private sector.
(6) REGIONAL INFORMATION COORDINATION ENTITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term “regional information coordination entity” means an organizational body that is certified or established by contract or memorandum by the lead Federal agency designated in section 5264(c)(3) of this part and coordinates State, Federal, local, and private interests at a regional level with the responsibility of engaging the private and public sectors in designing, operating, and improving regional coastal and ocean observing systems in order to ensure the provision of data and information that meet the needs of user groups from the respective regions.
(B) CERTAIN INCLUDED ASSOCIATIONS.—The term “regional information coordination entity” includes regional associations described in the System Plan.
(7) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(8) SYSTEM.—The term “System” means the National Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System established under section 5264.
(9) SYSTEM PLAN.—The term “System Plan” means the plan contained in the document entitled “Ocean.US Publication No. 9, The First Integrated Ocean Observing System (IOOS) Development Plan”, as updated by the Council under this part.
SEC. 5264. INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVING SYSTEM.
(a) Establishment.—The President, acting through the Council, shall establish a National Integrated Coastal and Ocean Observation System to fulfill the purposes set forth in section 5262 of this part and the System Plan and to fulfill the Nation's international obligations to contribute to the Global Earth Observation System of Systems and the Global Ocean Observing System.
(b) System Elements.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to fulfill the purposes of this part, the System shall be national in scope and consist of—
(A) Federal assets to fulfill national and international observation missions and priorities;
(B) non-Federal assets, including a network of regional information coordination entities identified under subsection (c)(4), to fulfill regional observation missions and priorities;
(C) data management, communication, and modeling systems for the timely integration and dissemination of data and information products from the System;
(D) a research and development program conducted under the guidance of the Council, consisting of—
(i) basic and applied research and technology development to improve understanding of coastal and ocean systems and their relationships to human activities and to ensure improvement of operational assets and products, including related infrastructure, observing technologies, and information and data processing and management technologies; and
(ii) large scale computing resources and research to advance modeling of coastal and ocean processes.
(2) ENHANCING ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT.—The head of each Federal agency that has administrative jurisdiction over a Federal asset shall support the purposes of this part and may take appropriate actions to enhance internal agency administration and management to better support, integrate, finance, and utilize observation data, products, and services developed under this section to further its own agency mission and responsibilities.
(3) AVAILABILITY OF DATA.—The head of each Federal agency that has administrative jurisdiction over a Federal asset shall make available data that are produced by that asset and that are not otherwise restricted for integration, management, and dissemination by the System.
(4) NON-FEDERAL ASSETS.—Non-Federal assets shall be coordinated, as appropriate, by the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee or by regional information coordination entities.
(c) Policy Oversight, Administration, And Regional Coordination.—
(1) COUNCIL FUNCTIONS.—The Council shall serve as the policy and coordination oversight body for all aspects of the System. In carrying out its responsibilities under this part, the Council shall—
(A) approve and adopt comprehensive System budgets developed and maintained by the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee to support System operations, including operations of both Federal and non-Federal assets;
(B) ensure coordination of the System with other domestic and international earth observing activities including the Global Ocean Observing System and the Global Earth Observing System of Systems, and provide, as appropriate, support for and representation on United States delegations to international meetings on coastal and ocean observing programs; and
(C) encourage coordinated intramural and extramural research and technology development, and a process to transition developing technology and methods into operations of the System.
(2) INTERAGENCY OCEAN OBSERVATION COMMITTEE.—The Council shall establish or designate an Interagency Ocean Observation Committee which shall—
(A) prepare annual and long-term plans for consideration and approval by the Council for the integrated design, operation, maintenance, enhancement and expansion of the System to meet the objectives of this part and the System Plan;
(B) develop and transmit to Congress at the time of submission of the President's annual budget request an annual coordinated, comprehensive budget to operate all elements of the System identified in subsection (b), and to ensure continuity of data streams from Federal and non-Federal assets;
(C) establish required observation data variables to be gathered by both Federal and non-Federal assets and identify, in consultation with regional information coordination entities, priorities for System observations;
(D) establish protocols and standards for System data processing, management, and communication;
(E) develop contract certification standards and compliance procedures for all non-Federal assets, including regional information coordination entities, to establish eligibility for integration into the System and to ensure compliance with all applicable standards and protocols established by the Council, and ensure that regional observations are integrated into the System on a sustained basis;
(F) identify gaps in observation coverage or needs for capital improvements of both Federal assets and non-Federal assets;
(G) subject to the availability of appropriations, establish through one or more participating Federal agencies, in consultation with the System advisory committee established under subsection (d), a competitive matching grant or other programs—
(i) to promote intramural and extramural research and development of new, innovative, and emerging observation technologies including testing and field trials; and
(ii) to facilitate the migration of new, innovative, and emerging scientific and technological advances from research and development to operational deployment;
(H) periodically review and recommend to the Council, in consultation with the Administrator, revisions to the System Plan;
(I) ensure collaboration among Federal agencies participating in the activities of the Committee; and
(J) perform such additional duties as the Council may delegate.
(3) LEAD FEDERAL AGENCY.—The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall function as the lead Federal agency for the implementation and administration of the System, in consultation with the Council, the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee, other Federal agencies that maintain portions of the System, and the regional information coordination entities, and shall—
(A) establish an Integrated Ocean Observing Program Office within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration utilizing to the extent necessary, personnel from member agencies participating on the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee, to oversee daily operations and coordination of the System;
(B) implement policies, protocols, and standards approved by the Council and delegated by the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee;
(C) promulgate program guidelines to certify and integrate non-Federal assets, including regional information coordination entities, into the System to provide regional coastal and ocean observation data that meet the needs of user groups from the respective regions;
(D) have the authority to enter into and oversee contracts, leases, grants or cooperative agreements with non-Federal assets, including regional information coordination entities, to support the purposes of this part on such terms as the Administrator deems appropriate;
(E) implement a merit-based, competitive funding process to support non-Federal assets, including the development and maintenance of a network of regional information coordination entities, and develop and implement a process for the periodic review and evaluation of all non-Federal assets, including regional information coordination entities;
(F) provide opportunities for competitive contracts and grants for demonstration projects to design, develop, integrate, deploy, and support components of the System;
(G) establish efficient and effective administrative procedures for allocation of funds among contractors, grantees, and non-Federal assets, including regional information coordination entities in a timely manner, and contingent on appropriations according to the budget adopted by the Council;
(H) develop and implement a process for the periodic review and evaluation of regional information coordination entities;
(I) formulate an annual process by which gaps in observation coverage or needs for capital improvements of Federal assets and non-Federal assets of the System are identified by the regional information coordination entities, the Administrator, or other members of the System and transmitted to the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee;
(J) develop and be responsible for a data management and communication system, in accordance with standards and protocols established by the Council, by which all data collected by the System regarding ocean and coastal waters of the United States including the Great Lakes, are processed, stored, integrated, and made available to all end-user communities;
(K) implement a program of public education and outreach to improve public awareness of global climate change and effects on the ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes environment;
(L) report annually to the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee on the accomplishments, operational needs, and performance of the System to contribute to the annual and long-term plans developed pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(A)(i); and
(M) develop a plan to efficiently integrate into the System new, innovative, or emerging technologies that have been demonstrated to be useful to the System and which will fulfill the purposes of this part and the System Plan.
(4) REGIONAL INFORMATION COORDINATION ENTITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—To be certified or established under this part, a regional information coordination entity shall be certified or established by contract or agreement by the Administrator, and shall agree to meet the certification standards and compliance procedure guidelines issued by the Administrator and information needs of user groups in the region while adhering to national standards and shall—
(i) demonstrate an organizational structure capable of gathering required System observation data, supporting and integrating all aspects of coastal and ocean observing and information programs within a region and that reflects the needs of State and local governments, commercial interests, and other users and beneficiaries of the System and other requirements specified under this part and the System Plan;
(ii) identify gaps in observation coverage needs for capital improvements of Federal assets and non-Federal assets of the System, or other recommendations to assist in the development of the annual and long-term plans created pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(A)(i) and transmit such information to the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee via the Program Office;
(iii) develop and operate under a strategic operational plan that will ensure the efficient and effective administration of programs and assets to support daily data observations for integration into the System, pursuant to the standards approved by the Council;
(iv) work cooperatively with governmental and non-governmental entities at all levels to identify and provide information products of the System for multiple users within the service area of the regional information coordination entities; and
(v) comply with all financial oversight requirements established by the Administrator, including requirements relating to audits.
(B) PARTICIPATION.—For the purposes of this part, employees of Federal agencies may participate in the functions of the regional information coordination entities.
(d) System Advisory Committee.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall establish or designate a System advisory committee, which shall provide advice as may be requested by the Administrator or the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the System advisory committee is to advise the Administrator and the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee on—
(A) administration, operation, management, and maintenance of the System, including integration of Federal and non-Federal assets and data management and communication aspects of the System, and fulfillment of the purposes set forth in section 5262;
(B) expansion and periodic modernization and upgrade of technology components of the System;
(C) identification of end-user communities, their needs for information provided by the System, and the System's effectiveness in disseminating information to end-user communities and the general public; and
(D) any other purpose identified by the Administrator or the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee.
(3) MEMBERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The System advisory committee shall be composed of members appointed by the Administrator. Members shall be qualified by education, training, and experience to evaluate scientific and technical information related to the design, operation, maintenance, or use of the System, or use of data products provided through the System.
(B) TERMS OF SERVICE.—Members shall be appointed for 3-year terms, renewable once. A vacancy appointment shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of the vacancy, and an individual so appointed may subsequently be appointed for 2 full 3-year terms if the remainder of the unexpired term is less than 1 year.
(C) CHAIRPERSON.—The Administrator shall designate a chairperson from among the members of the System advisory committee.
(D) APPOINTMENT.—Members of the System advisory committee shall be appointed as special Government employees for purposes of section 202(a) of title 18, United States Code.
(4) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.—
(A) REPORTING.—The System advisory committee shall report to the Administrator and the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee, as appropriate.
(B) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT.—The Administrator shall provide administrative support to the System advisory committee.
(C) MEETINGS.—The System advisory committee shall meet at least once each year, and at other times at the call of the Administrator, the Interagency Ocean Observing Committee, or the chairperson.
(D) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.—Members of the System advisory committee shall not be compensated for service on that Committee, but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
(E) EXPIRATION.—Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the System advisory committee.
(e) Civil Liability.—For purposes of determining liability arising from the dissemination and use of observation data gathered pursuant to this section, any non-Federal asset or regional information coordination entity incorporated into the System by contract, lease, grant, or cooperative agreement under subsection (c)(3)(D) that is participating in the System shall be considered to be part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Any employee of such a non-Federal asset or regional information coordination entity, while operating within the scope of his or her employment in carrying out the purposes of this part, with respect to tort liability, is deemed to be an employee of the Federal Government.
(f) Limitation.—Nothing in this part shall be construed to invalidate existing certifications, contracts, or agreements between regional information coordination entities and other elements of the System.
SEC. 5265. INTERAGENCY FINANCING AND AGREEMENTS.
(a) In General.—To carry out interagency activities under this part, the Secretary of Commerce may execute cooperative agreements, or any other agreements, with, and receive and expend funds made available by, any State or subdivision thereof, any Federal agency, or any public or private organization, or individual.
(b) Reciprocity.—Member Departments and agencies of the Council shall have the authority to create, support, and maintain joint centers, and to enter into and perform such contracts, leases, grants, and cooperative agreements as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this part and fulfillment of the System Plan.
SEC. 5266. APPLICATION WITH OTHER LAWS.
Nothing in this part supersedes or limits the authority of any agency to carry out its responsibilities and missions under other laws.
SEC. 5267. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
(a) Requirement.—Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator shall prepare and the President acting through the Council shall approve and transmit to the Congress a report on progress made in implementing this part.
(b) Contents.—The report shall include—
(1) a description of activities carried out under this part and the System Plan;
(2) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the System, including an evaluation of progress made by the Council to achieve the goals identified under the System Plan;
(3) identification of Federal and non-Federal assets as determined by the Council that have been integrated into the System, including assets essential to the gathering of required observation data variables necessary to meet the respective missions of Council agencies;
(4) a review of procurements, planned or initiated, by each Council agency to enhance, expand, or modernize the observation capabilities and data products provided by the System, including data management and communication subsystems;
(5) an assessment regarding activities to integrate Federal and non-Federal assets, nationally and on the regional level, and discussion of the performance and effectiveness of regional information coordination entities to coordinate regional observation operations;
(6) a description of benefits of the program to users of data products resulting from the System (including the general public, industries, scientists, resource managers, emergency responders, policy makers, and educators);
(7) recommendations concerning—
(A) modifications to the System; and
(B) funding levels for the System in subsequent fiscal years; and
(8) the results of a periodic external independent programmatic audit of the System.
SEC. 5268. PUBLIC-PRIVATE USE POLICY.
The Council shall develop a policy within 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act that defines processes for making decisions about the roles of the Federal Government, the States, regional information coordination entities, the academic community, and the private sector in providing to end-user communities environmental information, products, technologies, and services related to the System. The Council shall publish the policy in the Federal Register for public comment for a period not less than 60 days. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require changes in policy in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5269. INDEPENDENT COST ESTIMATE.
Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee, through the Administrator and the Director of the National Science Foundation, shall obtain an independent cost estimate for operations and maintenance of existing Federal assets of the System, and planned or anticipated acquisition, operation, and maintenance of new Federal assets for the System, including operation facilities, observation equipment, modeling and software, data management and communication, and other essential components. The independent cost estimate shall be transmitted unabridged and without revision by the Administrator to Congress.
SEC. 5270. INTENT OF CONGRESS.
It is the intent of Congress that funding provided to agencies of the Council to implement this part shall supplement, and not replace, existing sources of funding for other programs. It is the further intent of Congress that agencies of the Council shall not enter into contracts or agreements for the development or procurement of new Federal assets for the System that are estimated to be in excess of $250,000,000 in life-cycle costs without first providing adequate notice to Congress and opportunity for review and comment.
SEC. 5271. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce for fiscal years 2009 through 2013 such sums as are necessary to fulfill the purposes of this part and support activities identified in the annual coordinated System budget developed by the Interagency Ocean Observation Committee and submitted to the Congress.
PART VI—FEDERAL OCEAN ACIDIFICATION RESEARCH AND MONITORING ACT OF 2008
SEC. 5281. SHORT TITLE.
This part may be cited as the “Federal Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring Act of 2008” or the “FOARAM Act”.
SEC. 5282. PURPOSES.
(a) Purposes.—The purposes of this part are to provide for—
(1) development and coordination of a comprehensive interagency plan to—
(A) monitor and conduct research on the processes and consequences of ocean acidification on marine organisms and ecosystems; and
(B) establish an interagency research and monitoring program on ocean acidification;
(2) establishment of an ocean acidification program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
(3) assessment and consideration of regional and national ecosystem and socioeconomic impacts of increased ocean acidification; and
(4) research adaptation strategies and techniques for effectively conserving marine ecosystems as they cope with increased ocean acidification.
SEC. 5283. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) OCEAN ACIDIFICATION.—The term “ocean acidification” means the decrease in pH of the Earth's oceans and changes in ocean chemistry caused by chemical inputs from the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(3) SUBCOMMITTEE.—The term “Subcommittee” means the Joint Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of the National Science and Technology Council.
SEC. 5284. INTERAGENCY SUBCOMMITTEE.
(a) Designation.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Joint Subcommittee on Ocean Science and Technology of the National Science and Technology Council shall coordinate Federal activities on ocean acidification and establish an interagency working group.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The interagency working group on ocean acidification shall be comprised of senior representatives from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the United States Geological Survey, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and such other Federal agencies as appropriate.
(3) CHAIRMAN.—The interagency working group shall be chaired by the representative from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(b) Duties.—The Subcommittee shall—
(1) develop the strategic research and monitoring plan to guide Federal research on ocean acidification required under section 5285 of this part and oversee the implementation of the plan;
(2) oversee the development of—
(A) an assessment of the potential impacts of ocean acidification on marine organisms and marine ecosystems; and
(B) adaptation and mitigation strategies to conserve marine organisms and ecosystems exposed to ocean acidification;
(3) facilitate communication and outreach opportunities with nongovernmental organizations and members of the stakeholder community with interests in marine resources;
(4) coordinate the United States Federal research and monitoring program with research and monitoring programs and scientists from other nations; and
(5) establish or designate an Ocean Acidification Information Exchange to make information on ocean acidification developed through or utilized by the interagency ocean acidification program accessible through electronic means, including information which would be useful to policymakers, researchers, and other stakeholders in mitigating or adapting to the impacts of ocean acidification.
(c) Reports To Congress.—
(1) INITIAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Subcommittee shall transmit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science and Technology and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives that—
(A) includes a summary of federally funded ocean acidification research and monitoring activities, including the budget for each of these activities; and
(B) describes the progress in developing the plan required under section 5285 of this part.
(2) BIENNIAL REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the delivery of the initial report under paragraph (1) and every 2 years thereafter, the Subcommittee shall transmit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science and Technology and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives that includes—
(A) a summary of federally funded ocean acidification research and monitoring activities, including the budget for each of these activities; and
(B) an analysis of the progress made toward achieving the goals and priorities for the interagency research plan developed by the Subcommittee under section 5285.
(3) STRATEGIC RESEARCH PLAN.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Subcommittee shall transmit the strategic research plan developed under section 5285 to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science and Technology and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives. A revised plan shall be submitted at least once every 5 years thereafter.
SEC. 5285. STRATEGIC RESEARCH PLAN.
(a) In General.—Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Subcommittee shall develop a strategic plan for Federal research and monitoring on ocean acidification that will provide for an assessment of the impacts of ocean acidification on marine organisms and marine ecosystems and the development of adaptation and mitigation strategies to conserve marine organisms and marine ecosystems. In developing the plan, the Subcommittee shall consider and use information, reports, and studies of ocean acidification that have identified research and monitoring needed to better understand ocean acidification and its potential impacts, and recommendations made by the National Academy of Sciences in the review of the plan required under subsection (d).
(b) Contents Of The Plan.—The plan shall—
(1) provide for interdisciplinary research among the ocean sciences, and coordinated research and activities to improve the understanding of ocean chemistry that will affect marine ecosystems;
(2) establish, for the 10-year period beginning in the year the plan is submitted, the goals and priorities for Federal research and monitoring which will—
(A) advance understanding of ocean acidification and its physical, chemical, and biological impacts on marine organisms and marine ecosystems;
(B) improve the ability to assess the socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidification; and
(C) provide information for the development of adaptation and mitigation strategies to conserve marine organisms and marine ecosystems;
(3) describe specific activities, including—
(A) efforts to determine user needs;
(B) research activities;
(C) monitoring activities;
(D) technology and methods development;
(E) data collection;
(F) database development;
(G) modeling activities;
(H) assessment of ocean acidification impacts; and
(I) participation in international research efforts;
(4) identify relevant programs and activities of the Federal agencies that contribute to the interagency program directly and indirectly and set forth the role of each Federal agency in implementing the plan;
(5) consider and utilize, as appropriate, reports and studies conducted by Federal agencies, the National Research Council, or other entities;
(6) make recommendations for the coordination of the ocean acidification research and monitoring activities of the United States with such activities of other nations and international organizations;
(7) outline budget requirements for Federal ocean acidification research and monitoring and assessment activities to be conducted by each agency under the plan;
(8) identify the monitoring systems and sampling programs currently employed in collecting data relevant to ocean acidification and prioritize additional monitoring systems that may be needed to ensure adequate data collection and monitoring of ocean acidification and its impacts; and
(9) describe specific activities designed to facilitate outreach and data and information exchange with stakeholder communities.
(c) Program Elements.—The plan shall include at a minimum the following program elements:
(1) Monitoring of ocean chemistry and biological impacts associated with ocean acidification at selected coastal and open-ocean monitoring stations, including satellite-based monitoring to characterize—
(A) marine ecosystems;
(B) changes in marine productivity; and
(C) changes in surface ocean chemistry.
(2) Research to understand the species specific physiological responses of marine organisms to ocean acidification, impacts on marine food webs of ocean acidification, and to develop environmental and ecological indices that track marine ecosystem responses to ocean acidification.
(3) Modeling to predict changes in the ocean carbon cycle as a function of carbon dioxide and atmosphere-induced changes in temperature, ocean circulation, biogeochemistry, ecosystem and terrestrial input, and modeling to determine impacts on marine ecosystems and individual marine organisms.
(4) Technology development and standardization of carbonate chemistry measurements on moorings and autonomous floats.
(5) Assessment of socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidification and development of adaptation and mitigation strategies to conserve marine organisms and marine ecosystems.
(d) National Academy Of Sciences Evaluation.—The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to review the plan.
(e) Public Participation.—In developing the plan, the Subcommittee shall consult with representatives of academic, State, industry and environmental groups. Not later than 90 days before the plan, or any revision thereof, is submitted to the Congress, the plan shall be published in the Federal Register for a public comment period of not less than 60 days.
SEC. 5286. NOAA OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.
(a) In General.—The Secretary shall establish and maintain an ocean acidification program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to conduct research, monitoring, and other activities consistent with the strategic research and implementation plan developed by the Subcommittee under section 5285 that—
(1) includes—
(A) interdisciplinary research among the ocean and atmospheric sciences, and coordinated research and activities to improve understanding of ocean acidification;
(B) the establishment of a long-term monitoring program of ocean acidification utilizing existing global and national ocean observing assets, and adding instrumentation and sampling stations as appropriate to the aims of the research program;
(C) research to identify and develop adaptation strategies and techniques for effectively conserving marine ecosystems as they cope with increased ocean acidification;
(D) as an integral part of the research programs described in this part, educational opportunities that encourage an interdisciplinary and international approach to exploring the impacts of ocean acidification;
(E) as an integral part of the research programs described in this part, national public outreach activities to improve the understanding of current scientific knowledge of ocean acidification and its impacts on marine resources; and
(F) coordination of ocean acidification monitoring and impacts research with other appropriate international ocean science bodies such as the International Oceanographic Commission, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, the North Pacific Marine Science Organization, and others;
(2) provides grants for critical research projects that explore the effects of ocean acidification on ecosystems and the socioeconomic impacts of increased ocean acidification that are relevant to the goals and priorities of the strategic research plan; and
(3) incorporates a competitive merit-based process for awarding grants that may be conducted jointly with other participating agencies or under the National Oceanographic Partnership Program under section 7901 of title 10, United States Code.
(b) Additional Authority.—In conducting the Program, the Secretary may enter into and perform such contracts, leases, grants, or cooperative agreements as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this part on such terms as the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 5287. NSF OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.
(a) Research Activities.—The Director of the National Science Foundation shall continue to carry out research activities on ocean acidification which shall support competitive, merit-based, peer-reviewed proposals for research and monitoring of ocean acidification and its impacts, including—
(1) impacts on marine organisms and marine ecosystems;
(2) impacts on ocean, coastal, and estuarine biogeochemistry; and
(3) the development of methodologies and technologies to evaluate ocean acidification and its impacts.
(b) Consistency.—The research activities shall be consistent with the strategic research plan developed by the Subcommittee under section 5285.
(c) Coordination.—The Director shall encourage coordination of the Foundation's ocean acidification activities with such activities of other nations and international organizations.
SEC. 5288. NASA OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.
(a) Ocean Acidification Activities.—The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, in coordination with other relevant agencies, shall ensure that space-based monitoring assets are used in as productive a manner as possible for monitoring of ocean acidification and its impacts.
(b) Program Consistency.—The Administrator shall ensure that the Agency's research and monitoring activities on ocean acidification are carried out in a manner consistent with the strategic research plan developed by the Subcommittee under section 5285.
(c) Coordination.—The Administrator shall encourage coordination of the Agency's ocean acidification activities with such activities of other nations and international organizations.
SEC. 5289. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) NOAA.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to carry out the purposes of this part—
(1) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
(2) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
(3) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
(4) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.
(b) NSF.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Science Foundation to carry out the purposes of this part—
(1) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
(2) $8,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;
(3) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2011; and
(4) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2012.
TITLE VI—HOMELAND SECURITY AND GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS PROVISIONS
Subtitle A—National Capital Transportation Amendments Act Of 2008
SEC. 6101. SHORT TITLE; FINDINGS.
(a) Short Title.—This subtitle may be cited as the “National Capital Transportation Amendments Act of 2008”.
(b) Findings.—Congress finds as follows:
(1) Metro, the public transit system of the Washington metropolitan area, is essential for the continued and effective performance of the functions of the Federal Government, and for the orderly movement of people during major events and times of regional or national emergency.
(2) On 3 occasions, Congress has authorized appropriations for the construction and capital improvement needs of the Metrorail system.
(3) Additional funding is required to protect these previous Federal investments and ensure the continued functionality and viability of the original 103-mile Metrorail system.
SEC. 6102. AUTHORIZATION FOR CAPITAL AND PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE PROJECTS FOR WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY.
(a) Authorization.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the succeeding provisions of this section, the Secretary of Transportation is authorized to make grants to the Transit Authority, in addition to the contributions authorized under sections 3, 14, and 17 of the National Capital Transportation Act of 1969 (sec. 9—1101.01 et seq., D.C. Official Code), for the purpose of financing in part the capital and preventive maintenance projects included in the Capital Improvement Program approved by the Board of Directors of the Transit Authority.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(A) the term “Transit Authority” means the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority established under Article III of the Compact; and
(B) the term “Compact” means the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority Compact (80 Stat. 1324; Public Law 89—774).
(b) Use Of Funds.—The Federal grants made pursuant to the authorization under this section shall be subject to the following limitations and conditions:
(1) The work for which such Federal grants are authorized shall be subject to the provisions of the Compact (consistent with the amendments to the Compact described in subsection (d)).
(2) Each such Federal grant shall be for 50 percent of the net project cost of the project involved, and shall be provided in cash from sources other than Federal funds or revenues from the operation of public mass transportation systems. Consistent with the terms of the amendment to the Compact described in subsection (d)(1), any funds so provided shall be solely from undistributed cash surpluses, replacement or depreciation funds or reserves available in cash, or new capital.
(3) Such Federal grants may be used only for the maintenance and upkeep of the systems of the Transit Authority as of the date of the enactment of this Act and may not be used to increase the mileage of the rail system.
(c) Applicability Of Requirements For Mass Transportation Capital Projects Receiving Funds Under Federal Transportation Law.—Except as specifically provided in this section, the use of any amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization under this section shall be subject to the requirements applicable to capital projects for which funds are provided under chapter 53 of title 49, United States Code, except to the extent that the Secretary of Transportation determines that the requirements are inconsistent with the purposes of this section.
(d) Amendments To Compact.—No amounts may be provided to the Transit Authority pursuant to the authorization under this section until the Transit Authority notifies the Secretary of Transportation that each of the following amendments to the Compact (and any further amendments which may be required to implement such amendments) have taken effect:
(1) (A) An amendment requiring that all payments by the local signatory governments for the Transit Authority for the purpose of matching any Federal funds appropriated in any given year authorized under subsection (a) for the cost of operating and maintaining the adopted regional system are made from amounts derived from dedicated funding sources.
(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the term “dedicated funding source” means any source of funding which is earmarked or required under State or local law to be used to match Federal appropriations authorized under this subtitle for payments to the Transit Authority.
(2) An amendment establishing an Office of the Inspector General of the Transit Authority.
(3) An amendment expanding the Board of Directors of the Transit Authority to include 4 additional Directors appointed by the Administrator of General Services, of whom 2 shall be nonvoting and 2 shall be voting, and requiring one of the voting members so appointed to be a regular passenger and customer of the bus or rail service of the Transit Authority.
(e) Access To Wireless Service In Metrorail System.—
(1) REQUIRING TRANSIT AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ACCESS TO SERVICE.—No amounts may be provided to the Transit Authority pursuant to the authorization under this section unless the Transit Authority ensures that customers of the rail service of the Transit Authority have access within the rail system to services provided by any licensed wireless provider that notifies the Transit Authority (in accordance with such procedures as the Transit Authority may adopt) of its intent to offer service to the public, in accordance with the following timetable:
(A) Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, in the 20 underground rail station platforms with the highest volume of passenger traffic.
(B) Not later than 4 years after such date, throughout the rail system.
(2) ACCESS OF WIRELESS PROVIDERS TO SYSTEM FOR UPGRADES AND MAINTENANCE.—No amounts may be provided to the Transit Authority pursuant to the authorization under this section unless the Transit Authority ensures that each licensed wireless provider who provides service to the public within the rail system pursuant to paragraph (1) has access to the system on an ongoing basis (subject to such restrictions as the Transit Authority may impose to ensure that such access will not unduly impact rail operations or threaten the safety of customers or employees of the rail system) to carry out emergency repairs, routine maintenance, and upgrades to the service.
(3) PERMITTING REASONABLE AND CUSTOMARY CHARGES.—Nothing in this subsection may be construed to prohibit the Transit Authority from requiring a licensed wireless provider to pay reasonable and customary charges for access granted under this subsection.
(4) REPORTS.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and each of the 3 years thereafter, the Transit Authority shall submit to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the implementation of this subsection.
(5) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the term “licensed wireless provider” means any provider of wireless services who is operating pursuant to a Federal license to offer such services to the public for profit.
(f) Amount.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation for grants under this section an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000,000 to be available in increments over 10 fiscal years beginning in fiscal year 2009, or until expended.
(g) Availability.—Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization under this section shall remain available until expended.
Subtitle B—Preservation Of Records Of Servitude, Emancipation, And Post-Civil War Reconstruction Act
SEC. 6201. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Preservation of Records of Servitude, Emancipation, and Post-Civil War Reconstruction Act”.
SEC. 6202. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL DATABASE.
(a) In General.—The Archivist of the United States shall preserve relevant records and establish, as part of the National Archives, an electronically searchable national database consisting of historic records of servitude, emancipation, and post-Civil War reconstruction, including Refugees, Freedman and Abandoned Lands Records, the Southern Claims Commission Records, Records of the Freedmen’s Bank, Slave Impressments Records, Slave Payroll Records, Slave Manifest, and others, contained within the agencies and departments of the Federal Government to assist African Americans and others in conducting genealogical and historical research.
(b) Maintenance.—The database established under this section shall be maintained by the National Archives or an entity within the National Archives designated by the Archivist.
SEC. 6203. GRANTS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF STATE AND LOCAL DATABASES.
(a) In General.—The National Historical Publications and Records Commission of the National Archives shall provide grants to States, colleges and universities, museums, libraries, and genealogical associations to preserve records and establish electronically searchable databases consisting of local records of servitude, emancipation, and post-Civil War reconstruction.
(b) Maintenance.—The databases established using grants provided under this section shall be maintained by appropriate agencies or institutions designated by the National Historical Publications and Records Commission.
SEC. 6204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated—
(1) $5,000,000 to implement section 6202; and
(2) $5,000,000 to provide grants under section 6203.
Subtitle C—Predisaster Hazard Mitigation Act Of 2008
SEC. 6301. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the “Predisaster Hazard Mitigation Act of 2008”.
SEC. 6302. PREDISASTER HAZARD MITIGATION.
(a) Allocation Of Funds.—Section 203(f) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133(f)) is amended to read as follows:
“(f) Allocation Of Funds.—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall award financial assistance under this section on a competitive basis and in accordance with the criteria in subsection (g).
“(2) MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM AMOUNTS.—In providing financial assistance under this section, the President shall ensure that the amount of financial assistance made available to a State (including amounts made available to local governments of the State) for a fiscal year—
“(A) is not less than the lesser of—
“(i) $575,000; or
“(ii) the amount that is equal to 1 percent of the total funds appropriated to carry out this section for the fiscal year; and
“(B) does not exceed the amount that is equal to 15 percent of the total funds appropriated to carry out this section for the fiscal year.”.
(b) Authorization Of Appropriations.—Section 203(m) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133(m)) is amended to read as follows:
“(m) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—
“(1) $210,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;
“(2) $230,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and
“(3) $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.”.
SEC. 6303. FLOOD CONTROL PROJECTS.
(a) Definitions.—In this section—
(1) the term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
(2) the term “flood control project”—
(A) means a project relating to the repair or rehabilitation of a levee the construction of which has been completed before the date of enactment of this Act that is—
(i) Federally constructed; or
(ii) a non-Federal levee the owners of which are participating in the emergency response to natural disasters program established under section 5 of the Act entitled “An Act authorizing the construction of certain public works on rivers and harbors for flood control, and for other purposes”, approved August 18, 1941 (33 U.S.C. 701n); and
(B) does not include any project the maintenance of which is the responsibility of a Federal department or agency, including the Corps of Engineers.
(b) Review.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall review the guidance issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating to the eligibility of flood control projects under the predisaster mitigation program under section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133).
(2) CONTENTS.—As part of the review under this subsection, the Administrator shall—
(A) request proposals for potential flood control projects from not less than 5 States in which the President declared a major disaster (as that term is defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122)) relating to flooding during the 1-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act;
(B) develop additional criteria for selection of States under subparagraph (A), which shall be reviewed by the Government Accountability Office;
(C) evaluate the cost-effectiveness of proposals received under subparagraph (A); and
(D) review the report by the Committee on Levee Safety required under section 9003(c)(2) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 (33 U.S.C. 3302(c)(2)).
(c) Reports.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Administrator completes the review required under subsection (b)(1), the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report describing the results of the review under subsection (b)(1) of the suitability of using funds under the predisaster mitigation program for flood control projects, including any recommendations for changes to the administrative guidance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(2) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 240 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report assessing the criteria developed by the Administrator under subsection (b)(2)(B).
(d) Pilot Project.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—After the Administrator completes the review required under subsection (b)(1), the Administrator may make grants for not more than 5 flood control projects during fiscal year 2010, selected from among proposals submitted to the Administrator in response to the request under subsection (b)(2)(A). The selection of projects under this subsection by the Administrator shall be consistent with section 203(f) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended by this Act.
(2) OTHER CRITERIA.—The projects selected under this subsection shall meet the criteria under subsections (b), (e), and (g) of section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133).
SEC. 6304. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 602(a), by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the following:
“(7) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘Administrator’ means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.”; and
(2) by striking “Director” each place it appears and inserting “Administrator”, except—
(A) the second and fourth place it appears in section 622(c);
(B) in section 622(d); and
(C) in section 626(b).
TITLE VII—RULES AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
SEC. 7001. CONSTRUCTION OF GREENHOUSE FACILITY.
(a) In General.—The Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution is authorized to construct a greenhouse facility at its museum support facility in Suitland, Maryland, to maintain the horticultural operations of, and preserve the orchid collection held in trust by, the Smithsonian Institution.
(b) Authorization Of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated $12,000,000 to carry out this section. Such sums shall remain available until expended.
Calendar No. 894
110th CONGRESS
     2d Session
S. 3297
A BILL
To advance America's priorities.
July 23, 2008
Read the second time and placed on the calendar