Shown Here:
Engrossed in Senate (07/23/2020)

[Congressional Bills 116th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4049 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
116th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4049

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2021 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2021''.

SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into six divisions as 
follows:
            (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
            (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
            (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
        Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
            (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
            (5) Division E--Additional Provisions.
            (6) Division F--Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2021.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Integrated air and missile defense assessment.
Sec. 112. Report and limitation on Integrated Visual Augmentation 
                            System acquisition.
Sec. 113. Modifications to requirement for an interim cruise missile 
                            defense capability.
                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Contract authority for Columbia-class submarine program.
Sec. 122. Limitation on Navy medium and large unmanned surface vessels.
Sec. 123. Extension of prohibition on availability of funds for Navy 
                            waterborne security barriers.
Sec. 124. Procurement authorities for certain amphibious shipbuilding 
                            programs.
Sec. 125. Fighter force structure acquisition strategy.
Sec. 126. Treatment of systems added by Congress in future President's 
                            budget requests.
Sec. 127. Report on carrier wing composition.
Sec. 128. Report on strategy to use ALQ-249 Next Generation Jammer to 
                            ensure full spectrum electromagnetic 
                            superiority.
                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Economic order quantity contracting authority for F-35 joint 
                            strike fighter program.
Sec. 142. Minimum aircraft levels for major mission areas.
Sec. 143. Minimum operational squadron level.
Sec. 144. Minimum Air Force bomber aircraft level.
Sec. 145. F-35 gun system.
Sec. 146. Prohibition on funding for Close Air Support Integration 
                            Group.
Sec. 147. Limitation on divestment of KC-10 and KC-135 aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on retirement of U-2 and RQ-4 aircraft.
Sec. 149. Limitation on divestment of F-15C aircraft in the European 
                            theater.
Sec. 150. Air base defense development and acquisition strategy.
Sec. 151. Required solution for KC-46 aircraft remote visual system 
                            limitations.
Sec. 152. Analysis of requirements and Advanced Battle Management 
                            System capabilities.
Sec. 153. Studies on measures to assess cost-per-effect for key mission 
                            areas.
Sec. 154. Plan for operational test and utility evaluation of systems 
                            for Low-Cost Attributable Aircraft 
                            Technology program.
Sec. 155. Prohibition on retirement or divestment of A-10 aircraft.
       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 171. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, Army, 
                            and Air Force: annual plan and 
                            certification.
Sec. 172. Authority to use F-35 aircraft withheld from delivery to 
                            Government of Turkey.
Sec. 173. Transfer from Commander of United States Strategic Command to 
                            Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of 
                            responsibilities and functions relating to 
                            electromagnetic spectrum operations.
Sec. 174. Cryptographic modernization schedules.
Sec. 175. Prohibition on purchase of armed overwatch aircraft.
Sec. 176. Special operations armed overwatch.
Sec. 177. Autonomic Logistics Information System redesign strategy.
Sec. 178. Contract aviation services in a country or in airspace in 
                            which a Special Federal Aviation Regulation 
                            applies.
Sec. 179. F-35 aircraft munitions.
Sec. 180. Airborne intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
                            acquisition roadmap for United States 
                            Special Operations Command.
Sec. 181. Requirement to accelerate the fielding and development of 
                            counter unmanned aerial systems across the 
                            joint force.
Sec. 182. Joint All Domain Command and Control requirements.
         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Designation and activities of senior officials for critical 
                            technology areas supportive of the National 
                            Defense Strategy.
Sec. 212. Governance of fifth-generation wireless networking in the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 213. Application of artificial intelligence to the defense reform 
                            pillar of the National Defense Strategy.
Sec. 214. Extension of authorities to enhance innovation at Department 
                            of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 215. Updates to Defense Quantum Information Science and Technology 
                            Research and Development program.
Sec. 216. Program of part-time and term employment at Department of 
                            Defense science and technology reinvention 
                            laboratories of faculty and students from 
                            institutions of higher education.
Sec. 217. Improvements to Technology and National Security Fellowship 
                            of Department of Defense.
Sec. 218. Department of Defense research, development, and deployment 
                            of technology to support water sustainment.
Sec. 219. Development and testing of hypersonic capabilities.
Sec. 220. Disclosure requirements for recipients of Department of 
                            Defense research and development grants.
             Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Assessment on United States national security emerging 
                            biotechnology efforts and capabilities and 
                            comparison with adversaries.
Sec. 232. Independent comparative analysis of efforts by China and the 
                            United States to recruit and retain 
                            researchers in national security-related 
                            fields.
Sec. 233. Department of Defense demonstration of virtualized radio 
                            access network and massive multiple input 
                            multiple output radio arrays for fifth 
                            generation wireless networking.
Sec. 234. Independent technical review of Federal Communications 
                            Commission Order 20-48.
Sec. 235. Report on micro nuclear reactor programs.
Sec. 236. Modification to Test Resource Management Center strategic 
                            plan reporting cycle and contents.
Sec. 237. Limitation on contract awards for certain unmanned vessels.
Sec. 238. Documentation relating to the Advanced Battle Management 
                            System.
Sec. 239. Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery Test special 
                            purpose adjunct to address computational 
                            thinking.
Sec. 240. Report on use of testing facilities to research and develop 
                            hypersonic technology.
Sec. 241. Study and plan on the use of additive manufacturing and 
                            three-dimensional bioprinting in support of 
                            the warfighter.
Sec. 242. Element in annual reports on cyber science and technology 
                            activities on work with academic consortia 
                            on high priority cybersecurity research 
                            activities in Department of Defense 
                            capabilities.
                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.
                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Modifications and technical corrections to ensure restoration 
                            of contamination by perfluorooctane 
                            sulfonate and perfluorooctanoic acid.
Sec. 312. Readiness and Environmental Protection Integration Program 
                            technical edits and clarification.
Sec. 313. Survey and market research of technologies for phase out by 
                            Department of Defense of use of fluorinated 
                            aqueous film-forming foam.
Sec. 314. Modification of authority to carry out military installation 
                            resilience projects.
Sec. 315. Native American Indian lands environmental mitigation 
                            program.
Sec. 316. Energy resilience and energy security measures on military 
                            installations.
Sec. 317. Modification to availability of energy cost savings for 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 318. Long-duration demonstration initiative and joint program.
Sec. 319. Pilot program on alternative fuel vehicle purchasing.
Sec. 320. Extension of real-time sound monitoring at Navy installations 
                            where tactical fighter aircraft operate.
Sec. 321. Study on impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or 
                            discharges of pollution or debris from the 
                            Tijuana River on personnel, activities, and 
                            installations of Department of Defense.
Sec. 322. Increase in funding for study by Centers for Disease Control 
                            and Prevention relating to perfluoroalkyl 
                            and polyfluoroalkyl substance contamination 
                            in drinking water.
                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 331. Repeal of statutory requirement for notification to Director 
                            of Defense Logistics Agency three years 
                            prior to implementing changes to any 
                            uniform or uniform component.
Sec. 332. Clarification of limitation on length of overseas forward 
                            deployment of currently deployed naval 
                            vessels.
                          Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 351. Report on impact of permafrost thaw on infrastructure, 
                            facilities, and operations of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 352. Plans and reports on emergency response training for military 
                            installations.
Sec. 353. Report on implementation by Department of Defense of 
                            requirements relating to renewable fuel 
                            pumps.
Sec. 354. Report on effects of extreme weather on Department of 
                            Defense.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 371. Prohibition on divestiture of manned intelligence, 
                            surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft 
                            operated by United States Special 
                            Operations Command.
Sec. 372. Information on overseas construction projects in support of 
                            contingency operations using funds for 
                            operation and maintenance.
Sec. 373. Provision of protection to the National Museum of the Marine 
                            Corps, the National Museum of the United 
                            States Army, the National Museum of the 
                            United States Navy, and the National Museum 
                            of the United States Air Force.
Sec. 374. Inapplicability of congressional notification and dollar 
                            limitation requirements for advance 
                            billings for certain background 
                            investigations.
Sec. 375. Repeal of sunset for minimum annual purchase amount for 
                            carriers participating in the Civil Reserve 
                            Air Fleet.
Sec. 376. Improvement of the Operational Energy Capability Improvement 
                            Fund of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 377. Commission on the naming of items of the Department of 
                            Defense that commemorate the Confederate 
                            States of America or any person who served 
                            voluntarily with the Confederate States of 
                            America.
Sec. 378. Modifications to review of proposed actions by Military 
                            Aviation and Installation Assurance 
                            Clearinghouse.
Sec. 379. Adjustment in availability of appropriations for unusual cost 
                            overruns and for changes in scope of work.
Sec. 380. Requirement that Secretary of Defense implement security and 
                            emergency response recommendations relating 
                            to active shooter or terrorist attacks on 
                            installations of Department of Defense.
Sec. 381. Clarification of food ingredient requirements for food or 
                            beverages provided by the Department of 
                            Defense.
              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. End strength level matters.
                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for Reserves on active duty in support of the 
                            reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on 
                            active duty for operational support.
Sec. 415. Separate authorization by Congress of minimum end strengths 
                            for non-temporary military technicians 
                            (dual status) and maximum end strengths for 
                            temporary military technicians (dual 
                            status).
              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Repeal of codified specification of authorized strengths of 
                            certain commissioned officers on active 
                            duty.
Sec. 502. Temporary expansion of availability of enhanced constructive 
                            service credit in a particular career field 
                            upon original appointment as a commissioned 
                            officer.
Sec. 503. Requirement for promotion selection board recommendation of 
                            higher placement on promotion list of 
                            officers of particular merit.
Sec. 504. Special selection review boards for review of promotion of 
                            officers subject to adverse information 
                            identified after recommendation for 
                            promotion and related matters.
Sec. 505. Number of opportunities for consideration for promotion under 
                            alternative promotion authority.
Sec. 506. Mandatory retirement for age.
Sec. 507. Clarifying and improving restatement of rules on the retired 
                            grade of commissioned officers.
Sec. 508. Repeal of authority for original appointment of regular Navy 
                            officers designated for engineering duty, 
                            aeronautical engineering duty, and special 
                            duty.
                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Exclusion of certain reserve general and flag officers on 
                            active duty from limitations on authorized 
                            strengths.
                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 516. Increased access to potential recruits.
Sec. 517. Temporary authority to order retired members to active duty 
                            in high-demand, low-density assignments 
                            during war or national emergency.
Sec. 518. Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 
                            214) matters.
Sec. 519. Evaluation of barriers to minority participation in certain 
                            units of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 520. Reports on diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces.
            Subtitle D--Military Justice and Related Matters

 PART I--Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault and 
                            Related Matters

Sec. 521. Modification of time required for expedited decisions in 
                            connection with applications for change of 
                            station or unit transfer of members who are 
                            victims of sexual assault or related 
                            offenses.
Sec. 522. Defense Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sexual 
                            Misconduct.
Sec. 523. Report on ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and 
                            Sexual Assault Prevention and Response 
                            Victim Advocates to perform duties.
Sec. 524. Briefing on Special Victims' Counsel program.
Sec. 525. Accountability of leadership of the Department of Defense for 
                            discharging the sexual harassment policies 
                            and programs of the Department.
Sec. 526. Safe-to-report policy applicable across the Armed Forces.
Sec. 527. Additional bases for provision of advice by the Defense 
                            Advisory Committee for the Prevention of 
                            Sexual Misconduct.
Sec. 528. Additional matters for reports of the Defense Advisory 
                            Committee for the Prevention of Sexual 
                            Misconduct.
Sec. 529. Policy on separation of victim and accused at military 
                            service academies and degree-granting 
                            military educational institutions.
Sec. 530. Briefing on placement of members of the Armed Forces in 
                            academic status who are victims of sexual 
                            assault onto Non-Rated Periods.
                PART II--Other Military Justice Matters

Sec. 531. Right to notice of victims of offenses under the Uniform Code 
                            of Military Justice regarding certain post-
                            trial motions, filings, and hearings.
Sec. 532. Consideration of the evidence by Courts of Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 533. Preservation of records of the military justice system.
Sec. 534. Comptroller General of the United States report on 
                            implementation by the Armed Forces of 
                            recent GAO recommendations and statutory 
                            requirements on assessment of racial, 
                            ethnic, and gender disparities in the 
                            military justice system.
Sec. 535. Briefing on mental health support for vicarious trauma for 
                            certain personnel in the military justice 
                            system.
Sec. 536. Guardian ad litem program for minor dependents of members of 
                            the Armed Forces.
   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience

Sec. 541. Training on religious accommodation for members of the Armed 
                            Forces.
Sec. 542. Additional elements with 2021 certifications on the Ready, 
                            Relevant Learning initiative of the Navy.
Sec. 543. Report on standardization and potential merger of law 
                            enforcement training for military and 
                            civilian personnel across the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 544. Quarterly reports on implementation of recommendations of the 
                            Comprehensive Review of Special Operations 
                            Forces Culture and Ethics.
Sec. 545. Information on nominations and applications for military 
                            service academies.
Sec. 546. Pilot programs in connection with Senior Reserve Officers' 
                            Training Corps units at Historically Black 
                            Colleges and Universities and minority 
                            institutions.
Sec. 547. Expansion of Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps Program.
Sec. 548. Department of Defense STARBASE Program.
                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 551. Award or presentation of decorations favorably recommended 
                            following determination on merits of 
                            proposals for decorations not previously 
                            submitted in a timely fashion.
Sec. 552. Honorary promotion matters.
Subtitle G--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--Defense Dependents' Education Matters

Sec. 561. Continuation of authority to assist local educational 
                            agencies that benefit dependents of members 
                            of the Armed Forces and Department of 
                            Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 562. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 563. Staffing of Department of Defense Education Activity schools 
                            to maintain maximum student-to-teacher 
                            ratios.
Sec. 564. Matters in connection with free appropriate public education 
                            for dependents of members of the Armed 
                            Forces with special needs.
Sec. 565. Pilot program on expanded eligibility for Department of 
                            Defense Education Activity Virtual High 
                            School program.
Sec. 566. Pilot program on expansion of eligibility for enrollment at 
                            domestic dependent elementary and secondary 
                            schools.
Sec. 567. Comptroller General of the United States report on the 
                            structural condition of Department of 
                            Defense Education Activity schools.
               PART II--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 571. Responsibility for allocation of certain funds for military 
                            child development programs.
Sec. 572. Improvements to Exceptional Family Member Program.
Sec. 573. Procedures of the Office of Special Needs for the development 
                            of individualized services plans for 
                            military families with special needs.
Sec. 574. Restatement and clarification of authority to reimburse 
                            members for spouse relicensing costs 
                            pursuant to a permanent change of station.
Sec. 575. Improvements to Department of Defense tracking of and 
                            response to incidents of child abuse 
                            involving military dependents on military 
                            installations.
Sec. 576. Military child care and child development center matters.
Sec. 577. Expansion of financial assistance under My Career Advancement 
                            Account program.
                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 586. Removal of personally identifying and other information of 
                            certain persons from investigative reports, 
                            the Department of Defense Central Index of 
                            Investigations, and other records and 
                            databases.
Sec. 587. National emergency exception for timing requirements with 
                            respect to certain surveys of members of 
                            the Armed Forces.
Sec. 588. Sunset and transfer of functions of the Physical Disability 
                            Board of Review.
Sec. 589. Extension of reporting deadline for the annual report on the 
                            assessment of the effectiveness of 
                            activities of the federal voting assistance 
                            program.
Sec. 590. Pilot programs on remote provision by National Guard to State 
                            governments and National Guards of other 
                            States of cybersecurity technical 
                            assistance in training, preparation, and 
                            response to cyber incidents.
Sec. 591. Plan on performance of funeral honors details by members of 
                            other Armed Forces when members of the 
                            Armed Force of the deceased are 
                            unavailable.
Sec. 592. Limitation on implementation of Army Combat Fitness Test.
Sec. 593. Report on impact of children of certain Filipino World War II 
                            veterans on national security, foreign 
                            policy, and economic and humanitarian 
                            interests of the United States.
          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Reorganization of certain allowances other than travel and 
                            transportation allowances.
Sec. 602. Hazardous duty pay for members of the Armed Forces performing 
                            duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 
                            2019.
Sec. 603. Compensation and credit for retired pay purposes for 
                            maternity leave taken by members of the 
                            reserve components.
           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain expiring bonus and special pay 
                            authorities.
Sec. 612. Increase in special and incentive pays for officers in health 
                            professions.
     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Inclusion of drill or training foregone due to emergency 
                            travel or duty restrictions in computations 
                            of entitlement to and amounts of retired 
                            pay for non-regular service.
Sec. 622. Modernization and clarification of payment of certain 
                            Reserves while on duty.
Sec. 623. Relief of Richard W. Collins III.
                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 631. Permanent authority for and enhancement of the Government 
                            lodging program.
Sec. 632. Approval of certain activities by retired and reserve members 
                            of the uniformed services.
                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Authority for Secretary of Defense to manage provider type 
                            referral and supervision requirements under 
                            TRICARE program.
Sec. 702. Removal of Christian Science providers as authorized 
                            providers under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 703. Waiver of fees charged to certain civilians for emergency 
                            medical treatment provided at military 
                            medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 704. Mental health resources for members of the Armed Forces and 
                            their dependents during the COVID-19 
                            pandemic.
Sec. 705. Transitional health benefits for certain members of the 
                            National Guard serving under orders in 
                            response to the coronavirus (COVID-19).
Sec. 706. Extramedical maternal health providers demonstration project.
Sec. 707. Pilot program on receipt of non-generic prescription 
                            maintenance medications under TRICARE 
                            pharmacy benefits program.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 721. Modifications to transfer of Army Medical Research and 
                            Development Command and public health 
                            commands to Defense Health Agency.
Sec. 722. Delay of applicability of administration of TRICARE dental 
                            plans through Federal Employees Dental and 
                            Vision Insurance Program.
Sec. 723. Authority of Secretary of Defense to waive requirements 
                            during national emergencies for purposes of 
                            provision of health care.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 741. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-
                            Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
                            Facility Demonstration Fund.
Sec. 742. Membership of Board of Regents of Uniformed Services 
                            University of the Health Sciences.
Sec. 743. Military Health System Clinical Quality Management Program.
Sec. 744. Modifications to pilot program on civilian and military 
                            partnerships to enhance interoperability 
                            and medical surge capability and capacity 
                            of National Disaster Medical System.
Sec. 745. Study on force mix options and service models to enhance 
                            readiness of medical force of the Armed 
                            Forces to provide combat casualty care.
Sec. 746. Comptroller General study on delivery of mental health 
                            services to members of the reserve 
                            components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 747. Review and report on prevention of suicide among members of 
                            the Armed Forces stationed at remote 
                            installations outside the contiguous United 
                            States.
Sec. 748. Audit of medical conditions of tenants in privatized military 
                            housing.
Sec. 749. Comptroller General study on prenatal and postpartum mental 
                            health conditions among members of the 
                            Armed Forces and their dependents.
Sec. 750. Plan for evaluation of flexible spending account options for 
                            members of the uniformed services and their 
                            families.
Sec. 751. Assessment of receipt by civilians of emergency medical 
                            treatment at military medical treatment 
                            facilities.
Sec. 752. Report on billing practices for health care from Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 753. Access of veterans to Individual Longitudinal Exposure 
                            Record.
Sec. 754. Study on the incidence of cancer diagnosis and mortality 
                            among military aviators and aviation 
                            support personnel.
Subtitle D--Mental Health Services From Department of Veterans Affairs 
                   for Members of Reserve Components

Sec. 761. Short title.
Sec. 762. Expansion of eligibility for readjustment counseling and 
                            related outpatient services from Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs to include members of 
                            reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 763. Provision of mental health services from Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs to members of reserve 
                            components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 764. Inclusion of members of reserve components in mental health 
                            programs of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 765. Report on mental health and related services provided by 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs to members 
                            of the Armed Forces.
  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

                  Subtitle A--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 801. Policy recommendations for implementation of Executive Order 
                            13806 (Assessing and Strengthening the 
                            Manufacturing and Defense Industrial Base 
                            and Supply Chain Resiliency).
Sec. 802. Assessment of national security innovation base.
Sec. 803. Improving implementation of policy pertaining to the national 
                            technology and industrial base.
Sec. 804. Modification of framework for modernizing acquisition 
                            processes to ensure integrity of industrial 
                            base.
Sec. 805. Assessments of industrial base capabilities and capacity.
Sec. 806. Analyses of certain materials and technology sectors for 
                            action to address sourcing and industrial 
                            capacity.
Sec. 807. Microelectronics manufacturing strategy.
Sec. 808. Additional requirements pertaining to printed circuit boards.
Sec. 809. Statement of policy with respect to supply of strategic 
                            minerals and metals for Department of 
                            Defense purposes.
Sec. 810. Report on strategic and critical minerals and metals.
Sec. 811. Stabilization of shipbuilding industrial base workforce.
Sec. 812. Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other 
                            than United States goods.
Sec. 813. Use of domestically sourced star trackers in national 
                            security satellites.
Sec. 814. Modification to small purchase threshold exception to 
                            sourcing requirements for certain articles.
             Subtitle B--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 831. Report on acquisition risk assessment and mitigation as part 
                            of Adaptive Acquisition Framework 
                            implementation.
Sec. 832. Comptroller General report on implementation of software 
                            acquisition reforms.
Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 841. Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and 
                            services using general solicitation 
                            competitive procedures.
Sec. 842. Truth in Negotiations Act threshold for Department of Defense 
                            contracts.
Sec. 843. Revision of proof required when using an evaluation factor 
                            for defense contractors employing or 
                            subcontracting with members of the selected 
                            reserve of the reserve components of the 
                            Armed Forces.
Sec. 844. Contract authority for advanced development of initial or 
                            additional prototype units.
Sec. 845. Definition of business system deficiencies for contractor 
                            business systems.
Sec. 846. Repeal of pilot program on payment of costs for denied 
                            Government Accountability Office bid 
                            protests.
 Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 861. Implementation of modular open systems architecture 
                            requirements.
Sec. 862. Sustainment reviews.
Sec. 863. Recommendations for future direct selections.
Sec. 864. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense 
                            acquisition program offers.
                   Subtitle E--Small Business Matters

Sec. 871. Prompt payment of contractors.
Sec. 872. Extension of pilot program for streamlined awards for 
                            innovative technology programs.
Sec. 873. Reporting requirements.
     Subtitle F--Provisions Related to Software-Driven Capabilities

Sec. 881. Inclusion of software in government performance of 
                            acquisition functions.
Sec. 882. Balancing security and innovation in software development and 
                            acquisition.
Sec. 883. Comptroller General report on intellectual property 
                            acquisition and licensing.
Sec. 884. Pilot program exploring the use of consumption-based 
                            solutions to address software-intensive 
                            warfighting capability.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 891. Safeguarding defense-sensitive United States intellectual 
                            property, technology, and other data and 
                            information.
Sec. 892. Domestic comparative testing activities.
Sec. 893. Repeal of apprenticeship program.
      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low 
                            Intensity Conflict and related matters.
Sec. 902. Redesignation and codification in law of Office of Economic 
                            Adjustment.
Sec. 903. Modernization of process used by the Department of Defense to 
                            identify, task, and manage Congressional 
                            reporting requirements.
Sec. 904. Inclusion of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau as an 
                            advisor to the Joint Requirements Oversight 
                            Council.
Sec. 905. Assignment of responsibility for the Arctic region within the 
                            Office of the Secretary of Defense.
          Subtitle B--Department of Defense Management Reform

Sec. 911. Termination of position of Chief Management Officer of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 912. Report on assignment of responsibilities, duties, and 
                            authorities of Chief Management Officer to 
                            other officers or employees of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 913. Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 914. Assignment of certain responsibilities and duties to 
                            particular officers of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 915. Assignment of responsibilities and duties of Chief Management 
                            Officer to officers or employees of the 
                            Department of Defense to be designated.
Sec. 916. Definition of enterprise business operations for title 10, 
                            United States Code.
Sec. 917. Annual report on enterprise business operations of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 918. Conforming amendments.
                    Subtitle C--Space Force Matters

        PART I--Amendments to Integrate the Space Force Into Law

Sec. 931. Clarification of Space Force and Chief of Space Operations 
                            authorities.
Sec. 931A. Office of the Chief of Space Operations.
Sec. 932. Amendments to Department of the Air Force provisions in title 
                            10, United States Code.
Sec. 933. Amendments to other provisions of title 10, United States 
                            Code.
Sec. 934. Amendments to provisions of law relating to pay and 
                            allowances.
Sec. 935. Amendments relating to provisions of law on veterans' 
                            benefits.
Sec. 936. Amendments to other provisions of the United States Code.
Sec. 937. Applicability to other provisions of law.
                         PART II--Other Matters

Sec. 941. Matters relating to reserve components for the Space Force.
Sec. 942. Transfers of military and civilian personnel to the Space 
                            Force.
Sec. 943. Limitation on transfer of military installations to the 
                            jurisdiction of the Space Force.
Sec. 944. Clarification of procurement of commercial satellite 
                            communications services.
Sec. 945. Temporary exemption from authorized daily average of members 
                            in pay grades E-8 and E-9.
Sec. 946. Application of acquisition demonstration project to 
                            Department of the Air Force employees 
                            assigned to acquisition positions within 
                            the Space Force.
Sec. 947. Air and Space Force Medal.
Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 951. Annual report on establishment of field operating agencies.
Sec. 952. Briefing on assignment of members of the Armed Forces on 
                            active duty to the Joint Artificial 
                            Intelligence Center of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 953. Threats to United States forces from small unmanned aerial 
                            systems worldwide.
                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Application of Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation 
                            Plan to fiscal years following fiscal year 
                            2020.
Sec. 1003. Incentives for the achievement by the components of the 
                            Department of Defense of unqualified audit 
                            opinions on the financial statements.
                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Codification of authority for joint task forces of the 
                            Department of Defense to support law 
                            enforcement agencies conducting 
                            counterterrorism or counter-transnational 
                            organized crime activities.
                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Modification of authority to purchase used vessels with 
                            funds in the National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1022. Waiver during war or threat to national security of 
                            restrictions on overhaul, repair, or 
                            maintenance of vessels in foreign 
                            shipyards.
Sec. 1023. Modification of waiver authority on prohibition on use of 
                            funds for retirement of certain legacy 
                            maritime mine countermeasure platforms.
Sec. 1024. Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for 
                            certain Navy mess operations afloat.
Sec. 1025. Sense of Congress on actions necessary to achieve a 355-ship 
                            Navy.
                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to the United States.
Sec. 1032. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to close or 
                            relinquish control of United States Naval 
                            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Extension of prohibition on use of funds for transfer or 
                            release of individuals detained at United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, 
                            to certain countries.
Sec. 1034. Extension of prohibition on use of funds to construct or 
                            modify facilities in the United States to 
                            house detainees transferred from United 
                            States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Inclusion of disaster-related emergency preparedness 
                            activities among law enforcement activities 
                            authorities for sale or donation of excess 
                            personal property of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 1042. Expenditure of funds for Department of Defense clandestine 
                            activities that support operational 
                            preparation of the environment.
Sec. 1043. Clarification of authority of military commissions under 
                            chapter 47A of title 10, United States 
                            Code, to punish contempt.
Sec. 1044. Prohibition on actions to infringe upon First Amendment 
                            rights of peaceable assembly and petition 
                            for redress of grievances.
Sec. 1045. Arctic planning, research, and development.
Sec. 1046. Consideration of security risks in certain 
                            telecommunications architecture for future 
                            overseas basing decisions of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 1047. Foreign military training programs.
Sec. 1048. Reporting of adverse events relating to consumer products on 
                            military installations.
Sec. 1049. Inclusion of United States Naval Sea Cadet Corps among youth 
                            and charitable organizations authorized to 
                            receive assistance from the National Guard.
Sec. 1050. Department of Defense policy for the regulation of dangerous 
                            dogs.
Sec. 1051. Sense of Congress on the basing of KC-46A aircraft outside 
                            the contiguous United States.
Sec. 1052. Efficient use of sensitive compartmented information 
                            facilities.
Sec. 1053. Assistance for farmer and rancher stress and mental health 
                            of individuals in rural areas.
Sec. 1054. Additional conditions and limitations on the transfer of 
                            Department of Defense property for law 
                            enforcement activities.
                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1061. Report on potential improvements to certain military 
                            educational institutions of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 1062. Reports on status and modernization of the North Warning 
                            System.
Sec. 1063. Studies on the force structure for Marine Corps aviation.
Sec. 1064. Study on unemployment rate of female veterans who served on 
                            active duty in the Armed Forces after 
                            September 11, 2001.
Sec. 1065. Report on Great Lakes and inland waterways seaports.
Sec. 1066. Report on the Chemical and Biological Defense Program of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 1067. Report on round-the-clock availability of childcare for 
                            members of the Armed Forces and civilian 
                            employees of the Department of Defense who 
                            work rotating shifts.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Department of Defense strategic Arctic ports.
Sec. 1082. Personal protective equipment matters.
Sec. 1083. Estimate of damages from Federal Communications Commission 
                            Order 20-48.
Sec. 1084. Modernization effort.
Sec. 1085. Sense of Senate on Gold Star Families Remembrance Week.
Sec. 1086. Continuity of the Economy Plan.
Sec. 1087. Improving the authority for operations of unmanned aircraft 
                            for educational purposes.
Sec. 1088. Requirement to post a 100 word summary to regulations.gov.
Sec. 1089. Modification of licensure requirements for health care 
                            professionals providing treatment via 
                            telemedicine.
Sec. 1090. Restrictions on Confucius Institutes.
Sec. 1090A. Additional care for newborn children of veterans.
Sec. 1090B. Additional diseases associated with exposure to certain 
                            herbicide agents for which there is a 
                            presumption of service connection for 
                            veterans who served in the Republic of 
                            Vietnam.
 Subtitle H--Wireless Supply Chain Innovation and Multilateral Security

Sec. 1091. Definitions.
Sec. 1092. Communications technology security funds.
Sec. 1093. Promoting United States leadership in international 
                            organizations and communications standards-
                            setting bodies.
           Subtitle I--Semiconductor Manufacturing Incentives

Sec. 1094. Semiconductor incentive grants.
Sec. 1095. Department of Defense.
Sec. 1096. Department of Commerce study on status of microelectronics 
                            technologies in the United States 
                            industrial base.
Sec. 1097. Funding for development and adoption of measurably secure 
                            microelectronics and measurably secure 
                            microelectronics supply chains.
Sec. 1098. Advanced semiconductor research and design.
Sec. 1099. Prohibition relating to foreign adversaries.
                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

               Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters

Sec. 1101. Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and 
                            technology positions in the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 1102. Enhanced pay authority for certain research and technology 
                            positions in the science and technology 
                            reinvention laboratories of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 1103. Extension of enhanced appointment and compensation authority 
                            for civilian personnel for care and 
                            treatment of wounded and injured members of 
                            the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1104. Extension of overtime rate authority for Department of the 
                            Navy employees performing work aboard or 
                            dockside in support of the nuclear-powered 
                            aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1105. Expansion of direct hire authority for certain Department of 
                            Defense personnel to include installation 
                            military housing office positions 
                            supervising privatized military housing.
Sec. 1106. Extension of sunset of inapplicability of certification of 
                            executive qualifications by qualification 
                            certification review board of Office of 
                            Personnel Management for initial 
                            appointments to Senior Executive Service 
                            positions in Department of Defense.
Sec. 1107. Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain high-
                            level management positions in the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 1108. Pilot program on expanded authority for appointment of 
                            recently retired members of the Armed 
                            Forces to positions in the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 1109. Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for 
                            positions at remote locations.
Sec. 1110. Modification of direct hire authority for certain personnel 
                            involved with Department of Defense 
                            maintenance activities.
Sec. 1110A. Fire Fighters Alternative Work Schedule demonstration 
                            project for the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic 
                            Fire and Emergency Services.
Sec. 1110B. Report by Comptroller General of the United States on 
                            diversity and inclusion within the civilian 
                            workforce of the Department of Defense.
                  Subtitle B--Government-Wide Matters

Sec. 1111. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
                            allowances, benefits, and gratuities to 
                            civilian personnel on official duty in a 
                            combat zone.
Sec. 1112. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation 
                            on premium pay and aggregate limitation on 
                            pay for Federal civilian employees working 
                            overseas.
Sec. 1113. Technical amendments to authority for reimbursement of 
                            Federal, State, and local income taxes 
                            incurred during travel, transportation, and 
                            relocation.
             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Authority to build capacity for additional operations.
Sec. 1202. Authority to build capacity for air sovereignty operations.
Sec. 1203. Modification to the Inter-European Air Forces Academy.
Sec. 1204. Modification to support of special operations for irregular 
                            warfare.
Sec. 1205. Extension and modification of authority to support border 
                            security operations of certain foreign 
                            countries.
Sec. 1206. Modification of authority for participation in multinational 
                            centers of excellence.
Sec. 1207. Implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 
                            2017.
Sec. 1208. Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies.
Sec. 1209. Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare.
Sec. 1210. Open Technology Fund.
        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
                            certain coalition nations for support 
                            provided to United States military 
                            operations.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
                            Program.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of support for reconciliation 
                            activities led by the Government of 
                            Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Sense of Senate on special immigrant visa program for Afghan 
                            allies.
Sec. 1215. Sense of Senate and report on United States presence in 
                            Afghanistan.
         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Extension of authority and limitation on use of funds to 
                            provide assistance to counter the Islamic 
                            State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority to provide 
                            assistance to vetted Syrian groups and 
                            individuals.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support 
                            operations and activities of the Office of 
                            Security Cooperation in Iraq.
   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Extension of limitation on military cooperation between the 
                            United States and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1232. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
                            of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1233. Modification and extension of Ukraine Security Assistance 
                            Initiative.
Sec. 1234. Report on capability and capacity requirements of military 
                            forces of Ukraine and resource plan for 
                            security assistance.
Sec. 1235. Sense of Senate on North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
                            enhanced opportunities partner status for 
                            Ukraine.
Sec. 1236. Extension of authority for training for Eastern European 
                            national security forces in the course of 
                            multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1237. Sense of Senate on Kosovo and the role of the Kosovo Force 
                            of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1238. Sense of Senate on strategic competition with the Russian 
                            Federation and related activities of the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 1239. Report on Russian Federation support of racially and 
                            ethnically motivated violent extremists.
Sec. 1240. Participation in European program on multilateral exchange 
                            of surface transportation services.
Sec. 1241. Participation in programs relating to coordination or 
                            exchange of air refueling and air 
                            transportation services.
Sec. 1242. Sense of Congress on support for coordinated action to 
                            ensure the security of Baltic allies.
        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Pacific Deterrence Initiative.
Sec. 1252. Sense of Senate on the United States-Vietnam defense 
                            relationship.
Sec. 1253. Authority to transfer funds for Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup.
Sec. 1254. Cooperative program with Vietnam to account for Vietnamese 
                            personnel missing in action.
Sec. 1255. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll, Republic 
                            of the Marshall Islands.
Sec. 1256. Authority to establish a Movement Coordination Center 
                            Pacific in the Indo-Pacific region and 
                            participate in an Air Transport and Air-to-
                            Air Refueling and other Exchanges of 
                            Services program.
Sec. 1257. Training of ally and partner air forces in Guam.
Sec. 1258. Statement of policy and sense of Senate on the Taiwan 
                            Relations Act.
Sec. 1259. Sense of Congress on port calls in Taiwan with the USNS 
                            Comfort and the USNS Mercy .
Sec. 1260. Limitation on use of funds to reduce total number of members 
                            of the Armed Forces serving on active duty 
                            who are deployed to the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1261. Sense of Congress on co-development with Japan of a long-
                            range ground-based anti-ship cruise missile 
                            system.
Sec. 1262. Statement of policy on cooperation in the Indo-Pacific 
                            region.
Sec. 1263. Extension of prohibition on commercial export of certain 
                            munitions to the Hong Kong Police Force.
Sec. 1264. Implementation of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act with 
                            regard to Taiwan arms sales.
                          Subtitle F--Reports

Sec. 1271. Review of and report on overdue acquisition and cross-
                            servicing agreement transactions.
Sec. 1272. Report on burden sharing contributions by designated 
                            countries.
Sec. 1273. Report on risk to personnel, equipment, and operations due 
                            to Huawei 5G architecture in host 
                            countries.
Sec. 1274. Allied burden sharing report.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1281. Reciprocal patient movement agreements.
Sec. 1282. Extension of authorization of non-conventional assisted 
                            recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1283. Extension of Department of Defense support for stabilization 
                            activities in national security interest of 
                            the United States.
Sec. 1284. Notification with respect to withdrawal of members of the 
                            Armed Forces participating in the 
                            Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt.
Sec. 1285. Modification to initiative to support protection of national 
                            security academic researchers from undue 
                            influence and other security threats.
Sec. 1286. Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology 
                            Working Group.
Sec. 1287. Improved coordination of United States sanctions policy.
    Subtitle H--Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking 
                           Accountability Act

Sec. 1291. Short title.
Sec. 1292. Assistance for United States nationals unlawfully or 
                            wrongfully detained abroad.
Sec. 1293. Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs.
Sec. 1294. Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell.
Sec. 1295. Hostage Response Group.
Sec. 1296. Authorization of imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 1297. Definitions.
Sec. 1298. Rule of construction.
                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Funding allocations for Department of Defense Cooperative 
                            Threat Reduction Program.
                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.
                Subtitle B--Armed Forces Retirement Home

Sec. 1411. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
                            Home.
Sec. 1412. Periodic inspections of Armed Forces Retirement Home 
                            facilities by nationally recognized 
                            accrediting organization.
Sec. 1413. Expansion of eligibility for residence at the Armed Forces 
                            Retirement Home.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 1421. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
                            Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Medical Facility Demonstration Fund for 
                            Captain James A. Lovell Health Care Center, 
                            Illinois.
   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1503. Procurement.
Sec. 1504. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1505. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1506. Military personnel.
Sec. 1507. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1508. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1509. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1510. Defense Health Program.
                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1532. Transition and enhancement of inspector general authorities 
                            for Afghanistan reconstruction.
     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Resilient and survivable positioning, navigation, and timing 
                            capabilities.
Sec. 1602. Development efforts for National Security Space Launch 
                            providers.
Sec. 1603. Timeline for nonrecurring design validation for responsive 
                            space launch.
Sec. 1604. Tactically responsive space launch operations.
Sec. 1605. Conforming amendments relating to reestablishment of Space 
                            Command.
Sec. 1606. Space Development Agency development requirements and 
                            transfer to Space Force.
Sec. 1607. Space launch rate assessment.
Sec. 1608. Report on impact of acquisition strategy for the National 
                            Security Space Launch Program on emerging 
                            foreign space launch providers.
Sec. 1609. Leveraging commercial satellite remote sensing.
                 Subtitle B--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1611. Modification of position of Principal Cyber Advisor.
Sec. 1612. Framework for cyber hunt forward operations.
Sec. 1613. Modification of scope of notification requirements for 
                            sensitive military cyber operations.
Sec. 1614. Modification of requirements for quarterly Department of 
                            Defense cyber operations briefings for 
                            Congress.
Sec. 1615. Rationalization and integration of parallel cybersecurity 
                            architectures and operations.
Sec. 1616. Modification of acquisition authority of Commander of United 
                            States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1617. Assessment of cyber operational planning and deconfliction 
                            policies and processes.
Sec. 1618. Pilot program on cybersecurity capability metrics.
Sec. 1619. Assessment of effect of inconsistent timing and use of 
                            Network Address Translation in Department 
                            of Defense networks.
Sec. 1620. Matters concerning the College of Information and Cyberspace 
                            at National Defense University.
Sec. 1621. Modification of mission of cyber command and assignment of 
                            cyber operations forces.
Sec. 1622. Integration of Department of Defense user activity 
                            monitoring and cybersecurity.
Sec. 1623. Defense industrial base cybersecurity sensor architecture 
                            plan.
Sec. 1624. Extension of Cyberspace Solarium Commission to track and 
                            assess implementation.
Sec. 1625. Review of regulations and promulgation of guidance relating 
                            to National Guard responses to cyber 
                            attacks.
Sec. 1626. Improvements relating to the quadrennial cyber posture 
                            review.
Sec. 1627. Report on enabling United States Cyber Command resource 
                            allocation.
Sec. 1628. Evaluation of options for establishing a cyber reserve 
                            force.
Sec. 1629. Ensuring cyber resiliency of nuclear command and control 
                            system.
Sec. 1630. Modification of requirements relating to the Strategic 
                            Cybersecurity Program and the evaluation of 
                            cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon 
                            systems of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1631. Defense industrial base participation in a cybersecurity 
                            threat intelligence sharing program.
Sec. 1632. Assessment on defense industrial base cybersecurity threat 
                            hunting.
Sec. 1633. Assessing risk to national security of quantum computing.
Sec. 1634. Applicability of reorientation of Big Data Platform program 
                            to Department of Navy.
Sec. 1635. Expansion of authority for access and information relating 
                            to cyber attacks on operationally critical 
                            contractors of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 1636. Requirements for review of and limitations on the Joint 
                            Regional Security Stacks activity.
Sec. 1637. Independent assessment of establishment of a National Cyber 
                            Director.
Sec. 1638. Modification of authority to use operation and maintenance 
                            funds for cyber operations-peculiar 
                            capability development projects.
Sec. 1639. Personnel management authority for Commander of United 
                            States Cyber Command and development 
                            program for offensive cyber operations.
Sec. 1640. Implementation of information operations matters.
Sec. 1641. Report on Cyber Institutes Program.
Sec. 1642. Assistance for small manufacturers in the defense industrial 
                            supply chain on matters relating to 
                            cybersecurity.
Sec. 1643. Study on cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces 
                            and their families.
                       Subtitle C--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1651. Modification to responsibilities of Nuclear Weapons Council.
Sec. 1652. Responsibility of Nuclear Weapons Council in preparation of 
                            National Nuclear Security Administration 
                            budget.
Sec. 1653. Modification of Government Accountability Office review of 
                            annual reports on nuclear weapons 
                            enterprise.
Sec. 1654. Prohibition on reduction of the intercontinental ballistic 
                            missiles of the United States.
Sec. 1655. Sense of the Senate on nuclear cooperation between the 
                            United States and the United Kingdom.
                  Subtitle D--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1661. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
                            cooperative missile defense program co-
                            development and co-production.
Sec. 1662. Acceleration of the deployment of hypersonic and ballistic 
                            tracking space sensor payload.
Sec. 1663. Extension of prohibition relating to missile defense 
                            information and systems.
Sec. 1664. Report on and limitation on expenditure of funds for layered 
                            homeland missile defense system.
Sec. 1665. Extension of requirement for Comptroller General review and 
                            assessment of missile defense acquisition 
                            programs.
Sec. 1666. Repeal of requirement for reporting structure of Missile 
                            Defense Agency.
Sec. 1667. Ground-based midcourse defense interim capability.
                   TITLE XVII--HONG KONG AUTONOMY ACT

Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. Definitions.
Sec. 1703. Findings.
Sec. 1704. Sense of Congress regarding Hong Kong.
Sec. 1705. Identification of foreign persons involved in the erosion of 
                            the obligations of China under the Joint 
                            Declaration or the Basic Law and foreign 
                            financial institutions that conduct 
                            significant transactions with those 
                            persons.
Sec. 1706. Sanctions with respect to foreign persons that contravene 
                            the obligations of China under the Joint 
                            Declaration or the Basic Law.
Sec. 1707. Sanctions with respect to foreign financial institutions 
                            that conduct significant transactions with 
                            foreign persons that contravene the 
                            obligations of China under the Joint 
                            Declaration or the Basic Law.
Sec. 1708. Waiver, termination, exceptions, and congressional review 
                            process.
Sec. 1709. Implementation; penalties.
Sec. 1710. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1711. Exception relating to importation of goods.
            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
                            specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.
                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2017 
                            project at Camp Walker, Korea.
                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2018 
                            project at Royal Air Force Lakenheath.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2019 projects.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2020 family housing projects.
Sec. 2308. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
                            2020 projects.
           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized Energy Resilience and Conservation Investment 
                            Program projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
Sec. 2503. Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty 
                            Organization Security Investment Program.
             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.
Sec. 2512. Qatar funded construction projects.
            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
                            construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
                            acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.
Sec. 2607. Modification of authority to carry out fiscal year 2020 
                            project in Alabama.
          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
                            closure activities funded through 
                            Department of Defense Base Closure Account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional base realignment and 
                            closure (BRAC) round.
Sec. 2703. Plan to finish remediation activities conducted by the 
                            Secretary of the Army in Umatilla, Oregon.
       TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

Sec. 2801. Responsibility of Navy for military construction 
                            requirements for certain Fleet Readiness 
                            Centers.
Sec. 2802. Construction of ground-based strategic deterrent launch 
                            facilities and launch centers for Air 
                            Force.
                  Subtitle B--Military Family Housing

Sec. 2821. Prohibition on substandard family housing units.
Sec. 2822. Technical corrections to privatized military housing 
                            program.
Sec. 2823. Requirement that Secretary of Defense implement 
                            recommendations relating to military family 
                            housing contained in report by Inspector 
                            General of Department of Defense.
          Subtitle C--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

Sec. 2841. Promotion of energy resilience and energy security in 
                            privatized utility systems.
Sec. 2842. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in 
                            life-cycle cost for military construction.
                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2861. Renewal of Fallon Range Training Complex land withdrawal and 
                            reservation.
Sec. 2862. Renewal of Nevada Test and Training Range land withdrawal 
                            and reservation.
Sec. 2863. Transfer of land under the administrative jurisdiction of 
                            the Department of the Interior within Naval 
                            Support Activity Panama City, Florida.
Sec. 2864. Land conveyance, Camp Navajo, Arizona.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 2881. Military family readiness considerations in basing 
                            decisions.
Sec. 2882. Prohibition on use of funds to reduce air base resiliency or 
                            demolish protected aircraft shelters in the 
                            European theater without creating a similar 
                            protection from attack.
Sec. 2883. Prohibitions relating to closure or returning to host nation 
                            of existing bases under the European 
                            Consolidation Initiative.
Sec. 2884. Enhancement of authority to accept conditional gifts of real 
                            property on behalf of military museums.
Sec. 2885. Equal treatment of insured depository institutions and 
                            credit unions operating on military 
                            installations.
Sec. 2886. Report on operational aviation units impacted by noise 
                            restrictions or noise mitigation measures.
Sec. 2887. Transfer of funds for Oklahoma City national memorial 
                            endowment fund.
   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
                            projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2904. Replenishment of certain military constructions funds.
 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.
   Subtitle B--Budget of the National Nuclear Security Administration

Sec. 3111. Review of adequacy of nuclear weapons budget.
                     Subtitle C--Personnel Matters

Sec. 3121. National Nuclear Security Administration Personnel System.
Sec. 3122. Inclusion of certain employees and contractors of Department 
                            of Energy in definition of public safety 
                            officer for purposes of certain death 
                            benefits.
Sec. 3123. Reimbursement for liability insurance for nuclear materials 
                            couriers.
Sec. 3124. Transportation and moving expenses for immediate family of 
                            deceased nuclear materials couriers.
Sec. 3125. Extension of authority for appointment of certain 
                            scientific, engineering, and technical 
                            personnel.
                       Subtitle D--Cybersecurity

Sec. 3131. Reporting on penetrations of networks of contractors and 
                            subcontractors.
Sec. 3132. Clarification of responsibility for cybersecurity of 
                            National Nuclear Security Administration 
                            facilities.
               Subtitle E--Defense Environmental Cleanup

Sec. 3141. Public statement of environmental liabilities for facilities 
                            undergoing defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3142. Inclusion of missed milestones in future-years defense 
                            environmental cleanup plan.
Sec. 3143. Classification of defense environmental cleanup as capital 
                            asset projects or operations activities.
Sec. 3144. Continued analysis of approaches for supplemental treatment 
                            of low-activity waste at Hanford Nuclear 
                            Reservation.
                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 3151. Modifications to enhanced procurement authority to manage 
                            supply chain risk.
Sec. 3152. Prohibition on use of laboratory- or production facility-
                            directed research and development funds for 
                            general and administrative overhead costs.
Sec. 3153. Monitoring of industrial base for nuclear weapons 
                            components, subsystems, and materials.
Sec. 3154. Prohibition on use of funds for advanced naval nuclear fuel 
                            system based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3155. Authorization of appropriations for W93 nuclear warhead 
                            program.
Sec. 3156. Review of future of computing beyond exascale at the 
                            National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3157. Application of requirement for independent cost estimates 
                            and reviews to new nuclear weapon systems.
Sec. 3158. Extension and expansion of limitations on importation of 
                            uranium from Russian Federation.
Sec. 3159. Integration of stockpile stewardship and nonproliferation 
                            missions.
Sec. 3160. Technology development and integration program.
Sec. 3161. Advanced manufacturing development program.
Sec. 3162. Materials science program.
Sec. 3163. Modifications to Inertial Confinement Fusion Ignition and 
                            High Yield Program.
Sec. 3164. Earned value management program for life extension programs.
Sec. 3165. Use of high performance computing capabilities for COVID-19 
                            research.
Sec. 3166. Availability of stockpile responsiveness funds for projects 
                            to reduce time necessary to execute a 
                            nuclear test.
Sec. 3167. Sense of the Senate on extension of limitations on 
                            importation of uranium from Russian 
                            Federation.
          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Nonpublic collaborative discussions by Defense Nuclear 
                            Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Improvements to operations of Defense Nuclear Facilities 
                            Safety Board.
                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Maritime Administration.
                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. PROCUREMENT.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
                            contingency operations.
                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
                            operations.
                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
                   DIVISION E--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

                         TITLE LI--PROCUREMENT

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 5111. Report on CH-47F Chinook Block-II upgrade.
                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 5121. Limitation on alteration of Navy fleet mix.
         TITLE LII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 5211. Importance of historically Black colleges and universities 
                            and minority-serving institutions.
                   Subtitle C--Sustainable Chemistry

Sec. 5221. National coordinating entity for sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5222. Strategic plan for sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5223. Agency activities in support of sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5224. Partnerships in sustainable chemistry.
Sec. 5225. Prioritization.
Sec. 5226. Rule of construction.
Sec. 5227. Major multi-user research facility project.
                  Subtitle D--Cyber Workforce Matters

Sec. 5231. Improving National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education.
Sec. 5232. Development of standards and guidelines for improving 
                            cybersecurity workforce of Federal 
                            agencies.
Sec. 5233. Modifications to Federal cyber scholarship-for-service 
                            program.
Sec. 5234. Modifications to Federal cyber scholarship-for-service 
                            program.
Sec. 5235. Cybersecurity in programs of the National Science 
                            Foundation.
Sec. 5236. Cybersecurity in STEM programs of the National Aeronautics 
                            and Space Administration.
Sec. 5237. Cybersecurity in Department of Transportation programs.
Sec. 5238. National Cybersecurity Challenges.
Sec. 5239. Internet of Things.
             Subtitle E--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 5241. Report on Department of Defense strategy on artificial 
                            intelligence standards.
Sec. 5242. Study on establishment of energetics program office.
Sec. 5243. Deepfake report.
Sec. 5244. CISA Director.
Sec. 5245. Agency review.
Sec. 5246. General Services Administration review.
                 TITLE LIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 5331. Use of cost savings realized from intergovernmental services 
                            agreements for installation-support 
                            services.
                          Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 5351. Report on non-permissive, global positioning system denied 
                            airfield capabilities.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 5371. Increase of amounts available to Marine Corps for base 
                            operations and support.
Sec. 5372. Modernization of congressional reports process.
                  TITLE LV--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 5516. Report on implementation of recommendations of the 
                            Comptroller General of the United States on 
                            recruitment and retention of female members 
                            of the Armed Forces.
                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 5551. Report on regulations and procedures to implement programs 
                            on award of medals or commendations to 
                            handlers of military working dogs.
Subtitle G--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

               PART II--Military Family Readiness Matters

Sec. 5571. Independent study and report on military spouse 
                            underemployment.
                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 5586. Questions regarding racism, anti-Semitism, and supremacism 
                            in workplace surveys administered by the 
                            Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 5587. Briefing on the implementation of requirements on 
                            connections of retiring and separating 
                            members of the Armed Forces with community-
                            based organizations and related entities.
Sec. 5590. Pilot programs on remote provision by National Guard to 
                            State governments and National Guards of 
                            other States of cybersecurity technical 
                            assistance in training, preparation, and 
                            response to cyber incidents.
                   TITLE LVII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

          Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Provisions

Sec. 5707. Pilot program on receipt of non-generic prescription 
                            maintenance medications under TRICARE 
                            pharmacy benefits program.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 5723. Authority of Secretary of Defense to waive requirements 
                            during national emergencies for purposes of 
                            provision of health care.
                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 5741. Study and report on surge capacity of Department of Defense 
                            to establish negative air room containment 
                            systems in military medical treatment 
                            facilities.
 TITLE LVIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

                  Subtitle A--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 5801. Report on use of domestic nonavailability determinations.
Sec. 5802. Report on the effect of the Defense Manufacturing 
                            Communities Support Program on the defense 
                            supply chain.
Sec. 5803. Improving implementation of policy pertaining to the 
                            national technology and industrial base.
Sec. 5808. Additional requirements pertaining to printed circuit 
                            boards.
Sec. 5812. Miscellaneous limitations on the procurement of goods other 
                            than United States goods.
Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

Sec. 5841. Waivers of certain conditions for progress payments under 
                            certain contracts during the COVID-19 
                            national emergency.
                   Subtitle E--Small Business Matters

Sec. 5871. Office of Small Business and Disadvantaged Business 
                            Utilization.
Sec. 5872. Eligibility of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
                            Islands for certain Small Business 
                            Administration programs.
Sec. 5873. Disaster declaration in rural areas.
Sec. 5874. Temporary extension for 8(a) participants.
Sec. 5875. Maximum award price for sole source manufacturing contracts.
Sec. 5876. Annual reports regarding the SBIR program of the Department 
                            of Defense.
Sec. 5877. Small business loans for nonprofit child care providers.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 5891. Listing of other transaction authority consortia.
Sec. 5892. Report recommending disposition of notes to certain sections 
                            of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 5893. Applicability of reporting requirement related to notional 
                            milestones and standard timelines for 
                            foreign military sales.
Sec. 5894. Additional requirements related to mitigating risks related 
                            to foreign ownership, control, or influence 
                            of Department of Defense contractors and 
                            subcontractors.
      TITLE LIX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 5951. Comptroller General of the United States report on 
                            vulnerabilities of the Department of 
                            Defense resulting from offshore technical 
                            support call centers.
                      TITLE LX--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 6001. Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) reports on 
                            improving the budget justification and 
                            related materials of the Department of 
                            Defense.
Sec. 6002. Report on fiscal year 2022 budget request requirements in 
                            connection with Air Force operations in the 
                            Arctic.
Sec. 6003. Providing information to States regarding undelivered 
                            savings bonds.
         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 6046. Conditions for permanently basing United States equipment or 
                            additional military units in host countries 
                            with at-risk vendors in 5G or 6G networks.
Sec. 6047. Antidiscrimination.
                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 6061. Maritime security and domain awareness.
Sec. 6062. Report on pandemic preparedness and planning of the Navy.
Sec. 6063. Study and report on the affordability of insulin.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 6081. Modification to First Division monument.
Sec. 6082. Estimate of damages from Federal Communications Commission 
                            Order 20-48.
Sec. 6083. Diesel emissions reduction.
Sec. 6084. Utilizing significant emissions with innovative 
                            technologies.
Sec. 6085. Legal assistance for veterans and surviving spouses and 
                            dependents.
Sec. 6086. Silver Star Service Banner Day.
Sec. 6087. Established Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.
Sec. 6088. Subpoena authority.
Sec. 6089. Thad Cochran headquarters building.
Sec. 6090. Comptroller General of the United States report on handling 
                            by Department of Veterans Affairs of 
                            disability-related benefits claims by 
                            veterans with type 1 diabetes who were 
                            exposed to a herbicide agent.
Sec. 6091. Special rules for certain monthly workers' compensation 
                            payments and other payments for Federal 
                            Government personnel under chief of mission 
                            authority.
                  Subtitle H--Industries of the Future

Sec. 6094A. Short title.
Sec. 6094B. Report on Federal research and development focused on 
                            industries of the future.
Sec. 6094C. Industries of the Future Coordination Council.
                         Subtitle I--READI Act

Sec. 6096. Short title.
Sec. 6096A. Definitions.
Sec. 6096B. Wireless Emergency Alerts System offerings.
Sec. 6096C. State Emergency Alert System Plans and Emergency 
                            Communications Committees.
Sec. 6096D. Integrated public alert and warning system guidance.
Sec. 6096E. False alert reporting.
Sec. 6096F. Repeating Emergency Alert System messages for national 
                            security.
Sec. 6096G. Internet and online streaming services emergency alert 
                            examination.
            TITLE LXII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 6211. Congressional oversight of United States talks with Taliban 
                            officials and Afghanistan's comprehensive 
                            peace process.
   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

Sec. 6231. Clarification and expansion of sanctions relating to 
                            construction of Nord Stream 2 or TurkStream 
                            pipeline projects.
Sec. 6235. Sense of Senate on admission of Ukraine to the North 
                            Atlantic Treaty Organization Enhanced 
                            Opportunities Partnership Program.
        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

Sec. 6251. Pilot program to improve cyber cooperation with Vietnam, 
                            Thailand, and Indonesia.
                          Subtitle F--Reports

Sec. 6273. Report on risk to personnel, equipment, and operations due 
                            to Huawei 5G architecture in host 
                            countries.
                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 6281. Comparative studies on defense budget transparency of the 
                            People's Republic of China, the Russian 
                            Federation, and the United States.
Sec. 6282. Modification to initiative to support protection of national 
                            security academic researchers from undue 
                            influence and other security threats.
Sec. 6283. Sense of Senate on United States-Israel cooperation on 
                            precision-guided munitions.
Sec. 6284. Blocking deadly fentanyl imports.
Sec. 6286. Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology 
                            Working Group.
          Subtitle H--United States-Israel Security Assistance

Sec. 6290. Short title.
Sec. 6290A. Definition.
               Chapter 1--Security Assistance for Israel

Sec. 6291. Findings.
Sec. 6292. Statement of policy.
Sec. 6293. Security assistance for Israel.
Sec. 6294. Extension of war reserves stockpile authority.
Sec. 6295. Extension of loan guarantees to Israel.
Sec. 6296. Transfer of precision guided munitions to Israel.
Sec. 6297. Sense of Congress on rapid acquisition and deployment 
                            procedures.
Sec. 6298. Eligibility of Israel for the strategic trade authorization 
                            exception to certain export control 
                            licensing requirements.
          Chapter 2--Enhanced United States-Israel Cooperation

Sec. 6299. United States Agency for International Development memoranda 
                            of understanding to enhance cooperation 
                            with Israel.
Sec. 6299A. Cooperative projects among the United States, Israel, and 
                            developing countries.
Sec. 6299B. Joint cooperative program related to innovation and high-
                            tech for the Middle East region.
Sec. 6299C. Sense of Congress on United States-Israel economic 
                            cooperation.
Sec. 6299D. Cooperation on directed energy capabilities.
Sec. 6299E. Plans to provide Israel with necessary defense articles and 
                            services in a contingency.
Sec. 6299F. Other matters of cooperation.
    TITLE LXVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                 Subtitle B--Cyberspace Related Matters

Sec. 6611. Report on use of encryption by Department of Defense 
                            national security systems.
Sec. 6612. Guidance and direction on use of direct hiring processes for 
                            artificial intelligence professionals and 
                            other data science and software development 
                            personnel.
Sec. 6613. Cybersecurity State Coordinator Act.
Sec. 6614. Cybersecurity Advisory Committee.
Sec. 6615. Cybersecurity Education and Training Assistance Program.
                       Subtitle C--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 6651. Report on electromagnetic pulse hardening of ground-based 
                            strategic deterrent weapons system.
                 TITLE LXVII--NUCLEAR ENERGY LEADERSHIP

Sec. 6701. Advanced nuclear reactor research and development goals.
Sec. 6702. Nuclear energy strategic plan.
Sec. 6703. Versatile, reactor-based fast neutron source.
Sec. 6704. Advanced nuclear fuel security program.
Sec. 6705. University Nuclear Leadership Program.
Sec. 6706. Adjusting strategic petroleum reserve mandated drawdowns.
      TITLE LXXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

Sec. 7801. Modification to authority for military construction projects 
                            for child development centers at military 
                            installations.
Sec. 7802. Modification of construction of ground-based strategic 
                            deterrent launch facilities and launch 
                            centers for the Air Force.
                  Subtitle B--Military Family Housing

Sec. 7821. Inclusion of assessment of performance metrics in annual 
                            publication on use of incentive fees for 
                            privatized military housing projects.
                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 7861. Establishment of interagency committees on joint use of 
                            certain land withdrawn from appropriation 
                            under public land laws.
Sec. 7862. Lease extension for Bryan Multi-Sports Complex, Wayne 
                            County, North Carolina.
                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 7881. Sense of Congress on relocation of Joint Spectrum Center.
      TITLE LXXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 8159. Extension and expansion of limitations on importation of 
                            uranium from Russian Federation.
    DIVISION F--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021

Sec. 9001. Short title.
Sec. 9002. Definitions.
                   TITLE XCI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 9101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 9102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 9103. Intelligence Community Management Account.
   TITLE XCII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 
                                 SYSTEM

Sec. 9201. Authorization of appropriations.
              TITLE XCIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

Sec. 9301. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 9302. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
                            law.
Sec. 9303. Clarification of authorities and responsibilities of 
                            National Manager for National Security 
                            Telecommunications and Information Systems 
                            Security.
Sec. 9304. Continuity of operations plans for certain elements of the 
                            intelligence community in the case of a 
                            national emergency.
Sec. 9305. Application of Executive Schedule level III to position of 
                            Director of National Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 9306. National Intelligence University.
Sec. 9307. Requiring facilitation of establishment of Social Media Data 
                            and Threat Analysis Center.
Sec. 9308. Data collection on attrition in intelligence community.
Sec. 9309. Limitation on delegation of responsibility for program 
                            management of information-sharing 
                            environment.
Sec. 9310. Improvements to provisions relating to intelligence 
                            community information technology 
                            environment.
Sec. 9311. Requirements and authorities for Director of the Central 
                            Intelligence Agency to improve education in 
                            science, technology, engineering, arts, and 
                            mathematics.
    Subtitle B--Reports and Assessments Pertaining to Intelligence 
                               Community

Sec. 9321. Assessment by the Comptroller General of the United States 
                            on efforts of the intelligence community 
                            and the Department of Defense to identify 
                            and mitigate risks posed to the 
                            intelligence community and the Department 
                            by the use of direct-to-consumer genetic 
                            testing by the Government of the People's 
                            Republic of China.
Sec. 9322. Report on use by intelligence community of hiring 
                            flexibilities and expedited human resources 
                            practices to assure quality and diversity 
                            in the workforce of the intelligence 
                            community.
Sec. 9323. Report on signals intelligence priorities and requirements.
Sec. 9324. Assessment of demand for student loan repayment program 
                            benefit.
Sec. 9325. Assessment of intelligence community demand for child care.
Sec. 9326. Open source intelligence strategies and plans for the 
                            intelligence community.
         TITLE XCIV--SECURITY CLEARANCES AND TRUSTED WORKFORCE

Sec. 9401. Exclusivity, consistency, and transparency in security 
                            clearance procedures, and right to appeal.
Sec. 9402. Establishing process parity for security clearance 
                            revocations.
Sec. 9403. Federal policy on sharing of derogatory information 
                            pertaining to contractor employees in the 
                            trusted workforce.
                  TITLE XCV--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 9501. Report on attempts by foreign adversaries to build 
                            telecommunications and cybersecurity 
                            equipment and services for, or to provide 
                            such equipment and services to, certain 
                            allies of the United States.
Sec. 9502. Report on threats posed by use by foreign governments and 
                            entities of commercially available cyber 
                            intrusion and surveillance technology.
Sec. 9503. Reports on recommendations of the Cyberspace Solarium 
                            Commission.
Sec. 9504. Assessment of critical technology trends relating to 
                            artificial intelligence, microchips, and 
                            semiconductors and related supply chains.
Sec. 9505. Combating Chinese influence operations in the United States 
                            and strengthening civil liberties 
                            protections.
Sec. 9506. Annual report on corrupt activities of senior officials of 
                            the Chinese Communist Party.
Sec. 9507. Report on corrupt activities of Russian and other Eastern 
                            European oligarchs.
Sec. 9508. Report on biosecurity risk and disinformation by the Chinese 
                            Communist Party and the Government of the 
                            People's Republic of China.
Sec. 9509. Report on effect of lifting of United Nations arms embargo 
                            on Islamic Republic of Iran.
Sec. 9510. Report on Iranian activities relating to nuclear 
                            nonproliferation.
Sec. 9511. Sense of Congress on Third Option Foundation.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.

    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

SEC. 111. INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE ASSESSMENT.

    (a) Assessment by Secretary of the Army.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall conduct a 
        classified assessment of the capability and capacity of current 
        and planned integrated air and missile defense (IAMD) 
        capabilities to meet combatant commander requirements for major 
        operations against great-power competitors and other global 
        operations in support of the National Defense Strategy.
            (2) Elements.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) Analysis and characterization of current and 
                emerging threats, including the following:
                            (i) Cruise, hypersonic, and ballistic 
                        missiles.
                            (ii) Unmanned aerial systems.
                            (iii) Rockets.
                            (iv) Other indirect fire.
                            (v) Specific and meaningfully varied 
                        examples within each of subclauses (I) through 
                        (IV).
                    (B) Analysis of current and planned integrated air 
                and missile defense capabilities to counter the threats 
                analyzed and characterized under subparagraph (A), 
                including the following:
                            (i) Projected timelines for development, 
                        procurement, and fielding of planned integrated 
                        air and missile defense capabilities.
                            (ii) Projected capability gaps.
                            (iii) Opportunities for acceleration or 
                        need for incorporation of interim capabilities 
                        to address current and projected gaps.
                    (C) Analysis of current and planned capacity to 
                meet major contingency plan requirements and ongoing 
                global operations of the combatant commands, including 
                the following:
                            (i) Current and planned numbers of 
                        integrated air and missile defense systems and 
                        formations, including munitions.
                            (ii) Capacity gaps in addressing combatant 
                        command requirements.
                            (iii) Operations tempo stress on integrated 
                        air and missile defense formations and 
                        personnel.
                            (iv) Plans of the Secretary to continue to 
                        increase integrated air and missile defense 
                        personnel and formations.
                    (D) Assessment of integrated air and missile 
                defense architecture and enabling command and control 
                systems, including the following:
                            (i) A description of the integrated air and 
                        missile defense architecture and component 
                        counter unmanned aerial systems (C-UAS) sub-
                        architecture.
                            (ii) Identification of the enabling command 
                        and control (C2) systems.
                            (iii) Inter-connectivity of the enabling 
                        command and control systems.
                            (iv) Compatibility of the enabling command 
                        and control systems with planned Joint All 
                        Domain Command and Control (JADC2) 
                        architecture.
                    (E) Assessment of proponency within the Army of 
                integrated air and missile defense and counter unmanned 
                aerial systems, including the following:
                            (i) A description of the current proponency 
                        structure.
                            (ii) Adequacy of the current proponency 
                        structure to facilitate Army executive agency 
                        integrated air and missile defense and counter 
                        unmanned aerial systems functions for the 
                        Department of Defense.
                            (iii) Benefits of establishing integrated 
                        air and missile defense and counter unmanned 
                        aerial systems centers of excellence to help 
                        focus Army and joint force efforts to achieving 
                        a functional integrated air and missile defense 
                        capability and capacity to meet requirements of 
                        the combatant commands.
            (3) Characterization.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out paragraph (2)(A), 
                the Secretary shall avoid broad characterizations that 
                do not sufficiently distinguish between distinctly 
                different threats in the same general class.
                    (B) Example.--An example of a broad 
                characterization to be avoided under such paragraph is 
                ``cruise missiles'', since such characterization does 
                not sufficiently distinguish between current cruise 
                missiles and emerging hypersonic cruise missiles, which 
                may require different capabilities to counter them.
            (4) Report and interim briefing.--
                    (A) Interim briefing.--Not later than December 15, 
                2020, the Secretary shall provide the Committee on 
                Armed Services of the Senate and Committee on Armed 
                Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on 
                the assessment being conducted by the Secretary under 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Report.--Not later than February 15, 2021, the 
                Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and Committee on Armed Services 
                of the House of Representatives a report on the 
                findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
                assessment conducted under paragraph (1).
    (b) Review by Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.--
            (1) Review.--The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
        shall review the assessment being conducted under subsection 
        (a)(1) for potential gaps in capability and capacity to meet 
        requirements of the National Defense Strategy.
            (2) Report.--Not later than April 15, 2021, the Vice 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall submit to the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the 
        finding of the Vice Chairman with respect to the review 
        conducted under paragraph (1).

SEC. 112. REPORT AND LIMITATION ON INTEGRATED VISUAL AUGMENTATION 
              SYSTEM ACQUISITION.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than August 15, 2021, the 
        Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the Integrated Visual Augmentation 
        System (IVAS) subsequent to the completion of operational 
        testing.
            (2) Elements required.--The report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) Certification of the IVAS acquisition strategy, 
                to include production model costs, full rate production 
                schedule, and identification of any changes resulting 
                from operational testing.
                    (B) Certification of technology levels being 
                utilized in the full rate production model.
                    (C) Certification of operational suitability and 
                soldier acceptability of the production model IVAS.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Not more than 50 percent of the 
amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 
for procurement of the Integrated Visual Augmentation System may be 
obligated or expended until the Secretary submits to the congressional 
defense committees the report required under subsection (a).

SEC. 113. MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENT FOR AN INTERIM CRUISE MISSILE 
              DEFENSE CAPABILITY.

    (a) Plan.--Not later than January 15, 2021, the Secretary of the 
Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees the plan, 
including a timeline, to operationally deploy or forward station the 
two batteries of interim cruise missile defense capability procured 
pursuant to section 112 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1660) in an operational theater or theaters.
    (b) Modification of Waiver.--Section 112(b)(4) of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1661) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Army may waive the 
        deadlines specified in paragraph (1):
                    ``(A) For the deadline specified in paragraph 
                (1)(A), if the Secretary determines that sufficient 
                funds have not been appropriated to enable the 
                Secretary to meet such deadline.
                    ``(B) For the deadline specified in paragraph 
                (1)(B), if the Secretary submits to the congressional 
                defense committees a certification that--
                            ``(i) allocating resources toward 
                        procurement of an integrated enduring 
                        capability would provide robust tiered and 
                        layered protection to the joint force; or
                            ``(ii) additional time is required to 
                        complete training and preparation for 
                        operational capability.''.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

SEC. 121. CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR COLUMBIA-CLASS SUBMARINE PROGRAM.

    (a) Contract Authority.--The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a 
contract, beginning with fiscal year 2021, for the procurement of up to 
two Columbia-class submarines.
    (b) Incremental Funding.--With respect to a contract entered into 
under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy may use incremental 
funding to make payments under the contract.
    (c) Liability.--Any contract entered into under subsection (a) 
shall provide that--
            (1) any obligation of the United States to make a payment 
        under the contract is subject to the availability of 
        appropriations for that purpose; and
            (2) total liability of the Federal Government for 
        termination of any contract entered into shall be limited to 
        the total amount of funding obligated to the contract at time 
        of termination.

SEC. 122. LIMITATION ON NAVY MEDIUM AND LARGE UNMANNED SURFACE VESSELS.

    (a) Milestone B Approval Requirements.--Milestone B approval may 
not be granted for a covered program unless such program accomplishes 
prior to and incorporates into such approval--
            (1) qualification by the Senior Technical Authority of--
                    (A) at least two different main propulsion engines 
                and ancillary equipment, including the fuel and lube 
                oil systems; and
                    (B) at least two different electrical generators 
                and ancillary equipment;
            (2) final results of test programs of engineering 
        development models or prototypes for critical systems specified 
        by the Senior Technical Authority in their final form, fit, and 
        function and in a realistic environment; and
            (3) a determination by the milestone decision authority of 
        the minimum number of vessels, discrete test events, 
        performance parameters to be tested, and schedule required to 
        complete initial operational test and evaluation and 
        demonstrate operational suitability and operational 
        effectiveness.
    (b) Qualification Requirements.--The qualification required in 
subsection (a)(1) shall include a land-based operational demonstration 
of such equipment in the vessel-representative form, fit, and function 
for not less than 1,080 continuous hours without preventative 
maintenance, corrective maintenance, emergent repair, or any other form 
of repair or maintenance.
    (c) Requirement to Use Qualified Engines and Generators.--The 
Secretary of the Navy shall require that covered programs use only main 
propulsion engines and electrical generators that are qualified under 
subsection (a)(1).
    (d) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Navy may not release a detail 
design or construction request for proposals or obligate funds from a 
procurement account for a covered program until such program receives 
Milestone B approval and the milestone decision authority notifies the 
congressional defense committees, in writing, of the actions taken to 
comply with the requirements under this section.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``covered program'' means a program for--
                    (A) medium unmanned surface vessels; or
                    (B) large unmanned surface vessels.
            (2) The term ``Milestone B approval'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 2366(e)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
            (3) The term ``milestone decision authority'' means the 
        official within the Department of Defense designated with the 
        overall responsibility and authority for acquisition decisions 
        for the program, including authority to approve entry of the 
        program into the next phase of the acquisition process.
            (4) The term ``Senior Technical Authority'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 8669b of title 10, United States 
        Code.

SEC. 123. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NAVY 
              WATERBORNE SECURITY BARRIERS.

    Section 130(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1665), as 
amended by section 126 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by striking 
``for fiscal year 2019 or fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``for fiscal 
years 2019, 2020, or 2021''.

SEC. 124. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITIES FOR CERTAIN AMPHIBIOUS SHIPBUILDING 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) Contract Authority.--
            (1) Procurement authorized.--In fiscal year 2021, the 
        Secretary of the Navy may enter into one or more contracts for 
        the procurement of three San Antonio-class amphibious ships and 
        one America-class amphibious ship.
            (2) Procurement in conjunction with existing contracts.--
        The ships authorized to be procured under paragraph (1) may be 
        procured as additions to existing contracts covering such 
        programs.
    (b) Certification Required.--A contract may not be entered into 
under subsection (a) unless the Secretary of the Navy certifies to the 
congressional defense committees, in writing, not later than 30 days 
before entry into the contract, each of the following, which shall be 
prepared by the milestone decision authority for such programs:
            (1) The use of such a contract is consistent with the 
        Department of the Navy's projected force structure requirements 
        for amphibious ships.
            (2) The use of such a contract will result in significant 
        savings compared to the total anticipated costs of carrying out 
        the program through annual contracts. In certifying cost 
        savings under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall 
        include a written explanation of--
                    (A) the estimated end cost and appropriated funds 
                by fiscal year, by hull, without the authority provided 
                in subsection (a);
                    (B) the estimated end cost and appropriated funds 
                by fiscal year, by hull, with the authority provided in 
                subsection (a);
                    (C) the estimated cost savings or increase by 
                fiscal year, by hull, with the authority provided in 
                subsection (a);
                    (D) the discrete actions that will accomplish such 
                cost savings or avoidance; and
                    (E) the contractual actions that will ensure the 
                estimated cost savings are realized.
            (3) There is a reasonable expectation that throughout the 
        contemplated contract period the Secretary of the Navy will 
        request funding for the contract at the level required to avoid 
        contract cancellation.
            (4) There is a stable design for the property to be 
        acquired and the technical risks associated with such property 
        are not excessive.
            (5) The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the 
        anticipated cost avoidance through the use of a contract 
        authorized under subsection (a) are realistic.
            (6) The use of such a contract will promote the national 
        security of the United States.
            (7) During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be 
        awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the 
        contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense 
        program (as defined under section 221 of title 10, United 
        States Code) for such fiscal year will include the funding 
        required to execute the program without cancellation.
    (c) Authority for Advance Procurement.--The Secretary of the Navy 
may enter into one or more contracts for advance procurement associated 
with a vessel or vessels for which authorization to enter into a 
contract is provided under subsection (a), and for systems and 
subsystems associated with such vessels in economic order quantities 
when cost savings are achievable.
    (d) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year is 
subject to the availability of appropriations for that purpose for such 
fiscal year.
    (e) Milestone Decision Authority Defined.--In this section. the 
term ``milestone decision authority'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 2366a(d) of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 125. FIGHTER FORCE STRUCTURE ACQUISITION STRATEGY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary 
of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report with a fighter force structure acquisition strategy that is 
aligned with the results of the independent studies required under 
section 1064 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1576).The strategy shall establish a 
minimum number of F-35 and Next Generation Air Dominance (NGAD) 
aircraft that the Navy and Marine Corps would be required to purchase 
each year to mitigate or manage strike fighter shortfalls.
    (b) Limitation on Deviation From Strategy.--The Department of the 
Navy may not deviate from the acquisition strategy established under 
subsection (a) until--
            (1) the Secretary of the Navy receives a waiver and 
        justification from the Secretary of Defense; and
            (2) 30 days after the Secretary of the Navy notifies the 
        congressional defense committees of the proposed deviation.

SEC. 126. TREATMENT OF SYSTEMS ADDED BY CONGRESS IN FUTURE PRESIDENT'S 
              BUDGET REQUESTS.

    A procurement quantity of a system authorized by Congress in a 
National Defense Authorization Act for a given fiscal year that is 
subsequently appropriated by Congress in an amount greater than the 
quantity of such system included in the President's annual budget 
request submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, for such fiscal year shall not be included as a new 
procurement quantity in future annual budget requests.

SEC. 127. REPORT ON CARRIER WING COMPOSITION.

    (a) Report.--Not later than May 1, 2021, the Secretary of the Navy, 
in consultation with the Chief of Naval Operations and Commandant of 
the Marine Corps, shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
a report on the optimal composition of the carrier air wing in 2030 and 
2040, as well as alternative force design concepts.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An analysis and justification used to reach the 50-50 
        mix of 4th and 5th generation aircraft for 2030.
            (2) An analysis and justification for the optimal mix of 
        carrier aircraft for 2040.
            (3) A plan for incorporating unmanned aerial vehicles and 
        associated communication capabilities to effectively implement 
        the future force design.

SEC. 128. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO USE ALQ-249 NEXT GENERATION JAMMER TO 
              ENSURE FULL SPECTRUM ELECTROMAGNETIC SUPERIORITY.

    (a) Report.--Not later than July 30, 2021, the Secretary of the 
Navy, in consultation with the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees report with a strategy 
to ensure full spectrum electromagnetic superiority using the ALQ-249 
Next Generation Jammer.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) A description of the current procurement strategy of 
        the ALQ-249 and the analysis of its capability to meet the RF 
        frequency ranges required in a National Defense Strategy (NDS) 
        conflict.
            (2) An assessment of the ALQ-249's compatibility and 
        ability to synchronize non-kinetic fires using other Joint 
        Electronic Warfare (EW) platforms.
            (3) A future model of an interlinked/interdependent 
        electronic warfare menu of options for commanders at tactical, 
        operational, and strategic levels.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

SEC. 141. ECONOMIC ORDER QUANTITY CONTRACTING AUTHORITY FOR F-35 JOINT 
              STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority for Advance Procurement and Economic Order 
Quantity.--The Secretary of Defense may enter into one or more 
contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 2020 program year, for the 
procurement of economic order quantities of material and equipment for 
the F-35 aircraft program for use in procurement contracts to be 
awarded for such program during fiscal years 2021 through 2023.
    (b) Limitation.--The total amount obligated in fiscal year 2021 
under all contracts entered into under subsection (a) shall not exceed 
$493,000,000.
    (c) Preliminary Findings.--Before entering into a contract under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall make each of the following findings 
with respect to such contract:
            (1) The use of such a contract will result in significant 
        savings of the total anticipated costs of carrying out the 
        program through annual contracts.
            (2) The minimum need for the property to be procured is 
        expected to remain substantially unchanged during the 
        contemplated contract period in terms of production rate, 
        procurement rate, and total quantities.
            (3) There is a reasonable expectation that, throughout the 
        contemplated contract period, the Secretary will request 
        funding for the contract at the level required to avoid 
        contract cancellation.
            (4) There is a stable design for the property to be 
        procured, and the technical risks associated with such property 
        are not excessive.
            (5) The estimates of both the cost of the contract and the 
        anticipated cost avoidance through the use of an economic order 
        quantity contract are realistic.
            (6) Entering into the contract will promote the national 
        security interests of the United States.
    (d) Certification Requirement.--Except as provided in subsection 
(e), the Secretary of Defense may not enter into a contract under 
subsection (a) until 30 days after the Secretary certifies to the 
congressional defense committees, in writing, that each of the 
following conditions is satisfied:
            (1) A sufficient number of end items of the system being 
        acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within 
        the most recently available estimates of the program 
        acquisition unit cost or procurement unit cost for such system 
        to determine that the estimates of the unit costs are 
        realistic.
            (2) During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be 
        awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the 
        contract in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense 
        program submitted to Congress under section 221 of title 10, 
        United States Code, for that fiscal year will include the 
        funding required to execute the program without cancellation.
            (3) The contract is a fixed-price type contract.
            (4) The proposed contract provides for production at not 
        less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling and 
        facilities.
            (5) The Secretary has determined that each of the 
        conditions described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of 
        subsection (c) will be met by such contract and has provided 
        the basis for such determination to the congressional defense 
        committees.
            (6) The determination under paragraph (5) was made after 
        the completion of a cost analysis performed by the Director of 
        Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation for the purpose of 
        section 2334(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, and the 
        analysis supports that determination.
    (e) Exception.--Notwithstanding subsection (d), the Secretary of 
Defense may enter into a contract under subsection (a) on or after 
December 1, 2020, if--
            (1) the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
        has not completed a cost analysis of the preliminary findings 
        made by the Secretary under subsection (c) with respect to the 
        contract;
            (2) the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense 
        committees, in writing, that each of the conditions described 
        in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (d) is satisfied; 
        and
            (3) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on 
        which the Secretary submits the certification under paragraph 
        (2).

SEC. 142. MINIMUM AIRCRAFT LEVELS FOR MAJOR MISSION AREAS.

    (a) Minimum Levels.--Except as provided under subsection (b), the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall maintain the following minima, based 
on Primary Mission Aircraft Inventory (PMAI):
            (1) 1,182 Fighter aircraft.
            (2) 190 Attack Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA).
            (3) 92 Bomber aircraft.
            (4) 412 Tanker aircraft.
            (5) 230 Tactical airlift aircraft.
            (6) 235 Strategic airlift aircraft.
            (7) 84 Strategic Intelligence, Surveillance, and 
        Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft.
            (8) 106 Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) aircraft.
    (b) Exceptions.--The Secretary of the Air Force may reduce the 
number of aircraft in the PMAI of the Air Force below the minima 
specified in subsection (a) only if--
            (1) the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense 
        committees that such reduction is justified by the results of 
        the new capability and requirements studies; and
            (2) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on 
        which the certification is made to the congressional defense 
        committees under paragraph (1).
    (c) Applicability.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a 
case-by-case basis, to be no longer mission capable because of mishaps, 
other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.

SEC. 143. MINIMUM OPERATIONAL SQUADRON LEVEL.

    As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of the 
Air Force shall seek to achieve a minimum of not fewer than 386 
available operational squadrons, or equivalent organizational units, 
within the Air Force. In addition to the operational squadrons, the 
Secretary shall strive to achieve the following primary mission 
aircraft inventory (PMAI) numbers:
            (1) 1,680 Fighter aircraft.
            (2) 199 Persist attack remotely piloted aircraft (RPA).
            (3) 225 Bomber aircraft.
            (4) 500 Air refueling aircraft.
            (5) 286 Tactical airlift aircraft.
            (6) 284 Strategic airlift aircraft.
            (7) 55 Command and control aircraft.
            (8) 105 Combat search and rescue (CSAR) aircraft.
            (9) 30 Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) 
        aircraft.
            (10) 179 Special operations aircraft.
            (11) 40 Electronic warfare (EW) aircraft.

SEC. 144. MINIMUM AIR FORCE BOMBER AIRCRAFT LEVEL.

     The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees recommendations for a minimum number of bomber aircraft, 
including penetrating bombers in addition to B-52H aircraft, to enable 
the Air Force to carry out its long-range penetrating strike 
capability.

SEC. 145. F-35 GUN SYSTEM.

    The Secretary of the Air Force shall begin the procurement process 
for an alternate 25mm ammunition solution that provides a true full-
spectrum target engagement capability for the F-35A aircraft.

SEC. 146. PROHIBITION ON FUNDING FOR CLOSE AIR SUPPORT INTEGRATION 
              GROUP.

    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be obligated 
or expended for the Close Air Support Integration Group (CIG) or its 
subordinate units at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, and the Air Force 
may not utilize personnel or equipment in support of the CIG or its 
subordinate units.

SEC. 147. LIMITATION ON DIVESTMENT OF KC-10 AND KC-135 AIRCRAFT.

    The Secretary of Defense may not divest KC-10 and KC-135 aircraft 
in excess of the following amounts:
            (1) In fiscal year 2021, 6 KC-10 aircraft, including only 3 
        from primary mission aircraft inventory (PMAI).
            (2) In fiscal year 2022, 12 KC-10 aircraft.
            (3) In fiscal year 2023, 12 KC-10 and 14 KC-135 aircraft.

SEC. 148. LIMITATION ON RETIREMENT OF U-2 AND RQ-4 AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not take any 
action that would prevent the Air Force from maintaining the fleets of 
U-2 aircraft or RQ-4 aircraft in their current, or improved, 
configurations and capabilities until the Chairman of the Joint 
Requirements Oversight Council certifies in writing to the appropriate 
committees of Congress that the capability to be fielded at the same 
time or before the retirement of the U-2 aircraft or RQ-4 aircraft (as 
the case may be) would result in equal or greater capability available 
to the commanders of the combatant commands and would not result in 
less capacity available to the commanders of the combatant commands.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the certification 
requirement under subsection (a) with respect to U-2 aircraft or RQ-4 
aircraft if the Secretary--
            (1) determines, after analyzing sufficient and relevant 
        data, that a loss in capacity and capability will not prevent 
        the combatant commanders from accomplishing their missions at 
        acceptable levels of risk; and
            (2) provides to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        certification of such determination and supporting analysis.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 149. LIMITATION ON DIVESTMENT OF F-15C AIRCRAFT IN THE EUROPEAN 
              THEATER.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not divest F-
15C aircraft in the European theater until the F-15EX aircraft is 
integrated into the Air Force and has begun bed down actions in the 
European theater.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the 
Commander of the United States European Command (EUCOM), may waive the 
limitation under subsection (a) if the Secretary certifies to Congress 
the divestment is required for the national defense and that there 
exists sufficient resources at all times to meet NATO and EUCOM air 
superiority requirements for the European theater.

SEC. 150. AIR BASE DEFENSE DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION STRATEGY.

    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Chief of 
Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), in consultation with the Chief of Staff 
of the Army (CSA), shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
a development and acquisition strategy to procure a capability to 
protect air bases and prepositioned sites in contested environments 
highlighted in the National Defense Strategy. The strategy should 
ensure a solution that is effective against current and emerging cruise 
missile and advanced hypersonic missile threats.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Operation and Maintenance Funds.--Not more 
than 50 percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance for the Office of 
the Secretary of the Air Force and the Office of the Secretary of the 
Army may be obligated or expended until 15 days after submission of the 
strategy required under subsection (a).

SEC. 151. REQUIRED SOLUTION FOR KC-46 AIRCRAFT REMOTE VISUAL SYSTEM 
              LIMITATIONS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force shall develop and implement a 
complete, one-time solution to the KC-46 aircraft remote visual system 
(RVS) operational limitations. Not later than October 1, 2020, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
implementation strategy for the solution.

SEC. 152. ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS AND ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT 
              SYSTEM CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Analysis.--Not later than April 1, 2021, the Secretary of the 
Air Force, in consultation with the commanders of the combatant 
commands, shall develop an analysis of current and future moving target 
indicator requirements across the combatant commands and operational 
and tactical level command and control capabilities the Advanced Battle 
Management System (ABMS) will require when fielded.
    (b) JROC Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the Secretary 
        of the Air Force develops the analysis under subsection (a), 
        the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) shall certify 
        that requirements for ABMS incorporate the findings of the 
        analysis.
            (2) Congressional notification.--The Joint Requirements 
        Oversight Council (JROC) shall notify the congressional defense 
        committees upon making the certification required under 
        paragraph (1) and provide a briefing on the requirements and 
        findings described in such paragraph not later than 30 days 
        after such notification.

SEC. 153. STUDIES ON MEASURES TO ASSESS COST-PER-EFFECT FOR KEY MISSION 
              AREAS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall provide for the performance of two independent 
studies to devise new measures to assess cost-per-effect for key 
mission areas. One of the studies shall be conducted by an organization 
described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code, and one of the 
studies shall be conducted by a federally funded research and 
development center.
    (b) Scope.--Each study conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
address the following matters:
            (1) Number of weapon systems required to meet a specified 
        mission goal.
            (2) Number of personnel required to meet a specified 
        mission goal.
            (3) Associated operation and maintenance costs necessary to 
        facilitate respective operational constructs.
            (4) Basing requirements for respective force constructs.
            (5) Mission support elements required to facilitate 
        specified operations.
            (6) Defensive measures required to facilitate viable 
        mission operations.
            (7) Attrition due to enemy countermeasures and other loss 
        factors associated with respective technologies.
            (8) Associated weapon effects costs compared to alternative 
        forms of power projection.
    (c) Implementation of Measures.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall, as appropriate, incorporate the findings of the studies 
conducted pursuant to subsection (a) in the Air Force's future force 
development process. The measures--
            (1) should be domain and platform agnostic;
            (2) should focus on how best to achieve mission goals in 
        future operations; and
            (3) shall consider including harnessing cost-per-effect 
        assessments as a key performance parameter within the 
        Department of Defense's Joint Capabilities Integration and 
        Development System (JCIDS) requirements process.

SEC. 154. PLAN FOR OPERATIONAL TEST AND UTILITY EVALUATION OF SYSTEMS 
              FOR LOW-COST ATTRIBUTABLE AIRCRAFT TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.

    Not later than October 1, 2020, the Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall--
     (a) submit to the congressional defense committees an executable 
plan for the operational test and utility evaluation of the systems of 
the Low-Cost Attributable Aircraft Technology (LCAAT) program of the 
Air Force; and
    (b) brief the congressional defense committees on such plan.

SEC. 155. PROHIBITION ON RETIREMENT OR DIVESTMENT OF A-10 AIRCRAFT.

    The Secretary of Defense may not during fiscal year 2021 divest or 
retire any A-10 aircraft, in order to ensure ongoing capabilities to 
counter violent extremism and provide close air support and combat 
search and rescue in accordance with the National Defense Strategy.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

SEC. 171. BUDGETING FOR LIFE-CYCLE COST OF AIRCRAFT FOR THE NAVY, ARMY, 
              AND AIR FORCE: ANNUAL PLAN AND CERTIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 231 the following new section:
``Sec. 231a. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, 
              Army, and Air Force: Annual plan and certification
    ``(a) Annual Aircraft Procurement Plan and Certification.--Not 
later than 45 days after the date on which the President submits to 
Congress the budget for a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees--
            ``(1) a plan for the procurement of the aircraft specified 
        in subsection (b) for the Department of the Navy, the 
        Department of the Army, and the Department of the Air Force 
        developed in accordance with this section; and
            ``(2) a certification by the Secretary that both the budget 
        for such fiscal year and the future years defense program 
        submitted to Congress in relation to such budget under section 
        221 of this title provide for funding of the procurement of 
        aircraft at a level that is sufficient for the procurement of 
        the aircraft provided for in the plan under paragraph (1) on 
        the schedule provided in the plan.
    ``(b) Covered Aircraft.--The aircraft specified in this subsection 
are the aircraft as follows:
            ``(1) Fighter aircraft.
            ``(2) Attack aircraft.
            ``(3) Bomber aircraft.
            ``(4) Intertheater lift aircraft.
            ``(5) Intratheater lift aircraft.
            ``(6) Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        aircraft.
            ``(7) Tanker aircraft.
            ``(8) Remotely piloted aircraft.
            ``(9) Rotary-wing aircraft.
            ``(10) Operational support and executive lift aircraft.
            ``(11) Any other major support aircraft designated by the 
        Secretary of Defense for purposes of this section.
    ``(c) Annual Aircraft Procurement Plan.--(1) The annual aircraft 
procurement plan developed for a fiscal year for purposes of subsection 
(a)(1) should be designed so that the aviation force provided for under 
the plan is capable of supporting the national military strategy of the 
United States as set forth in the most recent National Defense Strategy 
submitted under section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, and 
National Military Strategy submitted under section 153(b) of title 10, 
United States Code.
    ``(2) Each annual aircraft procurement plan shall include the 
following:
            ``(A) A detailed program for the procurement of the 
        aircraft specified in subsection (b) for each of the Department 
        of the Navy, the Department of the Army, and the Department of 
        the Air Force over the next 30 fiscal years.
            ``(B) A description of the necessary aviation force 
        structure to meet the requirements of the national military 
        strategy of the United States or the most recent Quadrennial 
        Defense Review, whichever is applicable under paragraph (1).
            ``(C) The estimated levels of annual investment funding 
        necessary to carry out each aircraft program, together with a 
        discussion of the procurement strategies on which such 
        estimated levels of annual investment funding are based, set 
        forth in aggregate for the Department of Defense and in 
        aggregate for each military department.
            ``(D) The estimated level of annual funding necessary to 
        operate, maintain, sustain, and support each aircraft program 
        throughout the life-cycle of the program, set forth in 
        aggregate for the Department of Defense and in aggregate for 
        each military department.
            ``(E) For each of the cost estimates required by 
        subparagraphs (C) and (D)--
                    ``(i) a description of whether the cost estimate is 
                derived from the cost estimate position of the military 
                department or derived from the cost estimate position 
                of the Office of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation;
                    ``(ii) if the cost estimate position of the 
                military department and the cost estimate position of 
                the Office of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation 
                differ by more than 5 percent for any aircraft program, 
                an annotated cost estimate difference and sufficient 
                rationale to explain the difference;
                    ``(iii) the confidence or certainty level 
                associated with the cost estimate for each aircraft 
                program; and
                    ``(iv) a certification that cost between different 
                services and aircraft are based on similar components 
                in the life-cycle cost of each program.
            ``(F) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the 
        extent to which the combined aircraft forces of the Department 
        of the Navy, the Department of the Army, and the Department of 
        the Air Force meet the national security requirements of the 
        United States.
    ``(3) For any cost estimate required by paragraph (2)(C) or (D), 
for any aircraft program for which the Secretary is required to include 
in a report under section 2432 of this title, the source of the cost 
information used to prepare the annual aircraft plan, shall be sourced 
from the Selected Acquisition Report data that the Secretary plans to 
submit to the congressional defense committees in accordance with 
subsection (f) of that section for the year for which the annual 
aircraft plan is prepared.
    ``(4) The annual aircraft procurement plan shall be submitted in 
unclassified form and shall contain a classified annex. A summary 
version of the unclassified report shall be made available to the 
public.
    ``(d) Assessment When Aircraft Procurement Budget Is Insufficient 
to Meet Applicable Requirements.--If the budget for a fiscal year 
provides for funding of the procurement of aircraft for the Department 
of the Navy, the Department of the Army, or the Department of the Air 
Force at a level that is not sufficient to sustain the aviation force 
structure specified in the aircraft procurement plan for such 
Department for that fiscal year under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall include with the defense budget materials for that fiscal year an 
assessment that describes and discusses the risks associated with the 
reduced force structure of aircraft that will result from funding 
aircraft procurement at such level. The assessment shall be coordinated 
in advance with the commanders of the combatant commands.
    ``(e) Annual Report on Aircraft Inventory.--(1) As part of the 
annual plan and certification required to be submitted under this 
section, the Secretary shall include a report on the aircraft in the 
inventory of the Department of Defense. Each such report shall include 
the following, for the year covered by the report:
            ``(A) The total number of aircraft in the inventory.
            ``(B) The total number of the aircraft in the inventory 
        that are active, stated in the following categories (with 
        appropriate subcategories for mission aircraft, training 
        aircraft, dedicated test aircraft, and other aircraft):
                    ``(i) Primary aircraft.
                    ``(ii) Backup aircraft.
                    ``(iii) Attrition and reconstitution reserve 
                aircraft.
            ``(C) The total number of the aircraft in the inventory 
        that are inactive, stated in the following categories:
                    ``(i) Bailment aircraft.
                    ``(ii) Drone aircraft.
                    ``(iii) Aircraft for sale or other transfer to 
                foreign governments.
                    ``(iv) Leased or loaned aircraft.
                    ``(v) Aircraft for maintenance training.
                    ``(vi) Aircraft for reclamation.
                    ``(vii) Aircraft in storage.
            ``(D) The aircraft inventory requirements approved by the 
        Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under this subsection shall set forth 
each item described in paragraph (1) separately for the regular 
component of each armed force and for each reserve component of each 
armed force and, for each such component, shall set forth each type, 
model, and series of aircraft provided for in the future-years defense 
program that covers the fiscal year for which the budget accompanying 
the plan, certification and report is submitted.
    ``(f) Definition of Budget.--In this section, the term `budget', 
with respect to a fiscal year, means the budget for that fiscal year 
that is submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 231 the following new item:

``231a. Budgeting for life-cycle cost of aircraft for the Navy, Army, 
                            and Air Force: Annual plan and 
                            certification.''.

SEC. 172. AUTHORITY TO USE F-35 AIRCRAFT WITHHELD FROM DELIVERY TO 
              GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY.

    The Secretary of the Air Force is authorized to utilize, modify, 
and operate the 6 F-35 aircraft that were accepted by the Government of 
Turkey but never delivered because Turkey was suspended from the F-35 
program.

SEC. 173. TRANSFER FROM COMMANDER OF UNITED STATES STRATEGIC COMMAND TO 
              CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF OF RESPONSIBILITIES 
              AND FUNCTIONS RELATING TO ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM 
              OPERATIONS.

    (a) Transfer.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of 
Defense shall transition to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
as a Chairman's Controlled Activity all of the responsibilities and 
functions of the Commander of United States Strategic Command that are 
germane to electromagnetic spectrum operations, including--
            (1) advocacy for joint electronic warfare capabilities,
            (2) providing contingency electronic warfare support to 
        other combatant commands, and
            (3) supporting combatant command joint training and 
        planning related to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
    (b) Responsibility of Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as 
the Electronic Warfare Senior Designated Official.--The Vice Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as the Electronic Warfare Senior 
Designated Official, shall be responsible for the following:
            (1) Executing the functions transitioned to the Chairman of 
        the Joint Chiefs of Staff under subsection (a).
            (2) Overseeing, with the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Defense, the development and implementation of 
        the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority Strategy of the 
        Department of Defense and subsequent Department-wide 
        electromagnetic spectrum and electronic warfare strategies.
            (3) Managing the Joint Electronic Warfare Center and the 
        Joint Electromagnetic Preparedness for Advanced Combat 
        organizations.
            (4) Overseeing, through the Joint Requirements Oversight 
        Council and the Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations cross-
        functional team, the acquisition activities of the military 
        services as they relate to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
            (5) Overseeing and, as appropriate, setting standards for 
        the individual and unit training programs of the military 
        services and the joint training and mission rehearsal programs 
        of the combatant commands as they relate to electromagnetic 
        spectrum operations.
            (6) Overseeing the development of tactics, techniques, and 
        procedures germane to electromagnetic spectrum operations.
            (7) Overseeing the integration of electromagnetic spectrum 
        operations into operation plans and contingency plans.
            (8) Developing and integrating into the joint warfighting 
        concept operational concepts for electromagnetic spectrum 
        operations, including the following:
                    (A) The roles and responsibilities of each of the 
                military services and their primary contributions to 
                the joint force.
                    (B) The primary targets for offensive 
                electromagnetic spectrum operations and their alignment 
                to the military services and relevant capabilities.
                    (C) The armed forces' positioning, scheme of 
                maneuver, kill chains, and tactics, techniques, and 
                procedures, as appropriate, to conduct offensive 
                electromagnetic spectrum operations.
                    (D) The armed forces' positioning, scheme of 
                maneuver, kill chains, and tactics, techniques, and 
                procedures, as appropriate, to detect, disrupt, avoid, 
                or render ineffective adversary electromagnetic 
                spectrum operations.
    (c) Period of Effect of Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--The transfer required by subsection (a) 
        and the responsibilities specified in subsection (b) shall 
        remain in effect until such date as the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff considers appropriate, except that such date 
        shall not be earlier than the date that is 180 days after the 
        date on which the Chairman submits to the congressional defense 
        committees notice that--
                    (A) the Chairman has made a determination that--
                            (i) the military services', geographic 
                        combatant commands', and functional combatant 
                        commands' electromagnetic spectrum operations 
                        expertise, capabilities, and execution are 
                        sufficiently robust; and
                            (ii) an alternative arrangement described 
                        in paragraph (2) is justified; and
                    (B) the Chairman intends to transfer 
                responsibilities and activities in order to carry out 
                such alternative arrangement.
            (2) Alternative arrangement described.--An alternative 
        arrangement described in this paragraph is an arrangement in 
        which certain oversight, advocacy, and coordination functions 
        allotted to the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
        of Staff by subsections (a) and (b) are performed either by a 
        single combatant command or by the individual geographic and 
        functional combatant commands responsible for executing 
        electromagnetic spectrum operations with long-term supervision 
        by the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    (d) Evaluations of Armed Forces.--
            (1) In general.--The Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief 
        of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, the 
        Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space 
        Operations shall each conduct and complete an evaluation of the 
        armed forces for their respective military services and their 
        ability to perform the electromagnetic spectrum operations 
        missions required of them in--
                    (A) the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority 
                Strategy;
                    (B) the Joint Staff-developed concept of 
                operations; and
                    (C) the operation and contingency plans of the 
                combatant commanders.
            (2) Elements.--Each evaluation under paragraph (1) shall 
        include assessment of the following:
                    (A) Current programs of record, including--
                            (i) the ability of weapon systems to 
                        perform missions in contested electromagnetic 
                        spectrum environments; and
                            (ii) the ability of electronic warfare 
                        capabilities to disrupt adversary operations.
                    (B) Future programs of record, including--
                            (i) the need for distributed or network-
                        centric electronic warfare and signals 
                        intelligence capabilities; and
                            (ii) the need for automated and machine 
                        learning- or artificial intelligence-assisted 
                        electronic warfare capabilities.
                    (C) Order of battle.
                    (D) Individual and unit training.
                    (E) Tactics, techniques, and procedures, 
                including--
                            (i) maneuver, distribution of assets, and 
                        the use of decoys; and
                            (ii) integration of nonkinetic and kinetic 
                        fires.
    (e) Evaluation of Combatant Commands.--
            (1) In general.--The Commander of the United States 
        European Command, the Commander of the United States Pacific 
        Command, and the Commander of the United States Central Command 
        shall each conduct and complete an evaluation of the plans and 
        posture of their respective commands to execute the 
        electromagnetic spectrum operations envisioned in--
                    (A) the Electromagnetic Spectrum Superiority 
                Strategy; and
                    (B) the Joint Staff-developed concept of 
                operations.
            (2) Elements.--Each evaluation under paragraph (1) shall 
        include assessment of the following:
                    (A) Operation and contingency plans.
                    (B) The manning, organizational alignment, and 
                capability of joint electromagnetic spectrum operations 
                cells.
                    (C) Mission rehearsal and exercises.
                    (D) Force positioning, posture, and readiness.
    (f) Semiannual Briefing.--Not less frequently than twice each year 
until January 1, 2026, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
shall brief the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on the 
implementation of this section by each of the Joint Staff, the military 
services, and the combatant commands.

SEC. 174. CRYPTOGRAPHIC MODERNIZATION SCHEDULES.

    (a) Cryptographic Modernization Schedules Required.--Each of the 
Secretaries of the military departments and the heads of relevant 
defense agencies and field activities shall establish and maintain a 
cryptographic modernization schedule that specifies, for each pertinent 
weapon system, command and control system, or data link, including 
those that use commercial encryption technologies, as relevant, the 
following:
            (1) The expiration date or cease key date for applicable 
        cryptographic algorithms.
            (2) Anticipated key extension requests for systems where 
        cryptographic modernization is assessed to be overly burdensome 
        and expensive or to provide limited operational utility.
            (3) The funding and deployment schedule for modernized 
        cryptographic algorithms, keys, and equipment over the Future 
        Years Defense Program.
    (b) Requirements for Chief Information Officer.--The Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall--
            (1) oversee the construction and implementation of the 
        cryptographic modernization schedules required by subsection 
        (a);
            (2) establish and maintain an integrated cryptographic 
        modernization schedule for the entire Department, collating the 
        cryptographic modernization schedules required under subsection 
        (a); and
            (3) in coordination with the Director of the National 
        Security Agency and the Joint Staff Director for Command, 
        Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber, use the budget 
        certification, standard-setting, and policy-making authorities 
        provided in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, to 
        amend military service and defense agency and field activity 
        plans for key extension requests and cryptographic 
        modernization funding and deployment that pose unacceptable 
        risk to military operations.
    (c) Annual Notices.--Not later than January 1, 2022, and not less 
frequently than once each year thereafter until January 1, 2026, the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department and the Joint Staff 
Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/Cyber 
shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees 
notification of all--
            (1) delays to or planned delays of military service and 
        defense agency and field activity funding and deployment of 
        modernized cryptographic algorithms, keys, and equipment over 
        the previous year; and
            (2) changes in plans or schedules surrounding key extension 
        requests and waivers, including--
                    (A) unscheduled or unanticipated key extension 
                requests; and
                    (B) unscheduled or unanticipated waivers and 
                nonwaivers of scheduled or anticipated key extension 
                requests.

SEC. 175. PROHIBITION ON PURCHASE OF ARMED OVERWATCH AIRCRAFT.

    The Secretary of the Air Force may not purchase any aircraft for 
the Air Force Special Operations Command for the purpose of ``armed 
overwatch'' until such time as the Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that general purpose 
forces of the Air Force do not have the skill or capacity to provide 
close air support and armed overwatch to United States forces deployed 
operationally.

SEC. 176. SPECIAL OPERATIONS ARMED OVERWATCH.

    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for the Department of Defense may be used to acquire armed 
overwatch aircraft for the United States Special Operations Command, 
and the Department of Defense may not acquire armed overwatch aircraft 
for the United States Special Operations Command in fiscal year 2021.
    (b) Analysis Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than July 1, 2021, the Secretary 
        of Defense, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict and 
        the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command, 
        shall conduct an analysis to define the special operations-
        peculiar requirements for armed overwatch aircraft and to 
        determine whether acquisition of a new special operations-
        peculiar platform is the most cost effective means of 
        fulfilling such requirements.
            (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the analysis of alternatives 
        required under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) a description of the concept of operations for 
                employing armed overwatch aircraft in support of ground 
                forces;
                    (B) an identification of geographic regions in 
                which armed overwatch aircraft could be deployed;
                    (C) an identification of the most likely 
                antiaircraft threats in geographic areas where armed 
                overwatch aircraft will be deployed and possible 
                countermeasures to defeat such threats;
                    (D) a defined requirement for special operations-
                peculiar armed overwatch aircraft, including an 
                identification of threshold and objective performance 
                parameters for armed overwatch aircraft;
                    (E) an analysis of alternatives comparing various 
                manned and unmanned aircraft in the current aircraft 
                inventory of the United States Special Operations 
                Command and a new platform for meeting requirements for 
                the armed overwatch mission, including for each 
                alternative considered;
                    (F) an identification of any necessary aircraft 
                modifications and the associated cost;
                    (G) the annual cost of operating and sustaining 
                such aircraft;
                    (H) an identification of any required military 
                construction costs;
                    (I) an explanation of how the acquisition of a new 
                armed overwatch aircraft would impact the overall fleet 
                of special operations-peculiar aircraft and the 
                availability of aircrews and maintainers;
                    (J) an explanation of why existing Air Force and 
                United States Special Operations Command close air 
                support and airborne intelligence capabilities are 
                insufficient for the armed overwatch mission; and
                    (K) any other matters determined relevant by the 
                Secretary of Defense.

SEC. 177. AUTONOMIC LOGISTICS INFORMATION SYSTEM REDESIGN STRATEGY.

    Not later than October 1, 2020, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment, in consultation with the F-35 Program 
Executive Officer, shall--
            (1) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        describing a program-wide process for measuring, collecting, 
        and tracking information on how the Autonomic Logistics 
        Information System (ALIS) is affecting the performance of the 
        F-35 fleet, including its effects on mission capability rates; 
        and
            (2) implement a strategy for the redesign of ALIS, 
        including the identification and assessment of goals, key risks 
        or uncertainties, and costs of redesigning the system.

SEC. 178. CONTRACT AVIATION SERVICES IN A COUNTRY OR IN AIRSPACE IN 
              WHICH A SPECIAL FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATION APPLIES.

    (a) In General.--When the Department of Defense contracts for 
aviation services to be performed in a foreign country, or in airspace, 
in which a Special Federal Aviation Regulation issued by the Federal 
Aviation Administration would preclude operation of such aviation 
services by an air carrier or commercial operator of the United States, 
the Secretary of Defense (or a designee of the Secretary) shall--
            (1) obtain approval from the Administrator of the Federal 
        Aviation Administration (or a designee of the Administrator) 
        for the air carrier or commercial operator of the United States 
        to deviate from the Special Federal Aviation Regulation to the 
        extent necessary to perform such aviation services;
            (2) designate the aircraft of the air carrier or commercial 
        operator of the United States to be State Aircraft of the 
        United States when performing such aviation services; or
            (3) use organic aircraft to perform such aviation services 
        in lieu of aircraft of an air carrier or commercial operator of 
        the United States.
    (b) Construction of Designation.--The designation of aircraft of an 
air carrier or commercial operator of the United States as State 
Aircraft of the United States under subsection (a)(2) shall have no 
effect on Federal Aviation Administration requirements for--
            (1) safety oversight responsibility for the operation of 
        aircraft so designated, except for those activities prohibited 
        or restricted by an applicable Special Federal Aviation 
        Regulation; and
            (2) any previously issued nonpremium aviation insurance or 
        reinsurance policy issued to the air carrier or commercial 
        operator of the United States for the duration of aviation 
        services performed as a State Aircraft of the United States 
        under that subsection.

SEC. 179. F-35 AIRCRAFT MUNITIONS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Navy shall 
qualify and certify, for the use of United States forces, additional 
munitions on the F-35 aircraft that are already qualified on NATO 
member F-35 partner aircraft.

SEC. 180. AIRBORNE INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE 
              ACQUISITION ROADMAP FOR UNITED STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
              COMMAND.

    (a) In General.--Not later than December 1, 2021, the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity Conflict 
and the Commander of the United States Special Operations Command shall 
jointly submit to the congressional defense committees an acquisition 
roadmap to meet the manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of United States Special 
Operations Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The roadmap required under subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) A description of the current platform requirements for 
        manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance capabilities to support United States Special 
        Operations Forces.
            (2) An analysis of the remaining service life of existing 
        manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance capabilities currently operated by United States 
        Special Operations Forces.
            (3) An identification of any current or anticipated special 
        operations-peculiar capability gaps.
            (4) A description of the future manned and unmanned 
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance platform 
        requirements of the United States Special Operations Forces, 
        including range, payload, endurance, ability to operate in 
        contested environments, and other requirements as appropriate.
            (5) An explanation of the anticipated mix of manned and 
        unmanned aircraft, number of platforms, and associated aircrew 
        and maintainers.
            (6) An explanation of the extent to which service-provided 
        manned and unmanned airborne intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance capabilities will be required in support of 
        United States Special Operations Forces and how such 
        capabilities will supplement and integrate with the organic 
        capabilities possessed by United States Special Operations 
        Forces.
            (7) Any other matters deemed relevant by the Assistant 
        Secretary and Commander.

SEC. 181. REQUIREMENT TO ACCELERATE THE FIELDING AND DEVELOPMENT OF 
              COUNTER UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS ACROSS THE JOINT FORCE.

    (a) Priority Objectives for Executive Agent for C-UAS.--The 
Executive Agent of the Joint Counter Small Unmanned Aerial Systems (C-
sUAS) Office, as designated by the Under Secretary of Defense, 
Acquisition and Sustainment, shall prioritize the following objectives:
            (1) Select counter unmanned aerial systems that can be 
        fielded as early as fiscal year 2021 to meet immediate 
        operational needs in countering Group 1, 2, and 3 unmanned 
        aerial systems with the potential to expand to other larger 
        systems.
            (2) Devise and execute a near-term plan to develop and 
        field a select set of counter unmanned aerial systems to meet 
        joint force requirements, beginning in fiscal year 2021.
    (b) Fielding C-UAS Systems in Fiscal Year 2021.--Pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1), the Executive Agent shall prioritize the selection 
of counter unmanned aerial systems that can be fielded in fiscal year 
2021 with specific emphasis on systems that--
            (1) have undergone effective combat validations;
            (2) meet the operational demands of deployed forces facing 
        the most significant threats, especially unmanned aerial 
        systems that are not remotely piloted or are not reliant on a 
        command link; and
            (3) utilize autonomous systems and processes that increase 
        operational effectiveness, reduce the manning demands on 
        operational forces, and limit the need for government-funded 
        contractor logistics support.
    (c) Near-term Development Plan.--The plan for the near-term 
development of counter unmanned aerial systems prioritized under 
subsection (a)(2) shall ensure, at a minimum, that the development of 
such systems--
            (1) builds, as much as practicable, upon systems that were 
        selected for fielding in fiscal year 2021 and the criteria 
        prioritized for their selection, as specified in subsection 
        (b);
            (2) reduces or accelerates the timeline for initial 
        operational capability and full operational capability;
            (3) utilizes a software-defined, family-of-systems approach 
        that enables the flexible and continuous integration of 
        different types of sensors and mitigation solutions based on 
        the different demands of particular military installations and 
        deployed forces, physical geographies, and threat profiles; and
            (4) gives preference to commercial items, as required in 
        section 3307 of title 41, United States Code, when making 
        selections of counter unmanned aerial systems or component 
        parts, including a common command and control system.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Executive Agent shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the selection process for counter 
unmanned aerial systems capabilities prioritized under paragraph (1) of 
subsection (a) and the plan prioritized under paragraph (2) of such 
subsection.
    (e) Oversight.--The Executive Agent shall--
            (1) oversee the program management and execution of all 
        counter unmanned aerial systems being developed within the 
        military departments on the day before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) ensure that the plan prioritized under subsection 
        (a)(2) guides future programmatic and funding decisions for 
        activities relating to counter unmanned aerial systems, 
        including cancellation of such activities.

SEC. 182. JOINT ALL DOMAIN COMMAND AND CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Production of Requirements by Joint Requirements Oversight 
Council.--Not later than October 1, 2020, the Joint Requirements and 
Oversight Council (JROC) shall produce requirements for the Joint All 
Domain Command and Control (JADC2) program.
    (b) Air Force Certification.--Immediately after the certification 
of requirements produced under subsection (a), the Chief of Staff of 
the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
certification that the current JADC2 effort, including programmatic and 
architecture efforts, being led by the Air Force will meet the 
requirements laid out by the JROC.
    (c) Certification by Other Services.-- Not later than January 1, 
2021, the chief of each other military service shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a certification whether that service's 
efforts on multi-domain command and control are compatible with the Air 
Force-led JADC2 architecture.
    (d) Budgeting.--The Secretary of Defense shall incorporate the 
expected costs for full development and implementation of the JADC2 
program across the Department in the President's budget submission to 
Congress for fiscal year 2022 under section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 211. DESIGNATION AND ACTIVITIES OF SENIOR OFFICIALS FOR CRITICAL 
              TECHNOLOGY AREAS SUPPORTIVE OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE 
              STRATEGY.

    (a) Designation of Senior Officials.--The Under Secretary for 
Research and Engineering shall designate a set of senior officials to 
coordinate research and engineering in such technology areas as the 
Under Secretary considers critical for the support of the National 
Defense Strategy.
    (b) Duties.--The duties of the senior officials designated under 
subsection (a) shall include, within their respective technology 
areas--
            (1) developing and continuously updating research and 
        technology development roadmaps, associated funding strategies, 
        and associated technology transition strategies to ensure 
        effective and efficient development of new capabilities and 
        operational use of appropriate technologies;
            (2) annual assessments of workforce, infrastructure, and 
        industrial base capabilities and capacity to support the 
        roadmaps developed under paragraph (1) and the goals of the 
        National Defense Strategy;
            (3) reviewing the relevant research and engineering budgets 
        of appropriate organizations within the Department of Defense, 
        including the military services, and advising the Under 
        Secretary on--
                    (A) the consistency of the budgets with the 
                roadmaps developed under paragraph (1);
                    (B) any technical and programmatic risks to 
                achieving the research and technology development goals 
                of the National Defense Strategy; and
                    (C) projects and activities with unwanted or 
                inefficient duplication, including with other 
                government agencies and the commercial sector, lack of 
                appropriate coordination with relevant organizations, 
                or inappropriate alignment with organizational missions 
                and capabilities;
            (4) coordinating research and engineering activities of the 
        Department with appropriate international, interagency, and 
        private sector organizations; and
            (5) tasking the appropriate intelligence agencies to 
        develop a direct comparison between the capabilities of the 
        United States and the capabilities of adversaries of the United 
        States.
    (c) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2021, and not 
        later than December 1 of each year thereafter until December 1, 
        2025, the Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report of successful examples of research 
        and engineering activities that have--
                    (A) achieved significant technical progress;
                    (B) transitioned to formal acquisition programs;
                    (C) transitioned into operational use; or
                    (D) transferred for further commercial development 
                or commercial sales.
            (2) Form.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in a publicly releasable format, but may include a 
        classified annex.
    (d) Coordination of Research and Engineering Activities.--The 
Service Acquisition Executive for each military services and the 
Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency shall each 
identify senior officials to ensure coordination of appropriate 
research and engineering activities with each of the senior officials 
designated under subsection (a).

SEC. 212. GOVERNANCE OF FIFTH-GENERATION WIRELESS NETWORKING IN THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out the responsibilities established 
in section 142 of title 10, United States Code, the Chief Information 
Officer (CIO) of the Department of Defense shall--
            (1) lead the cross-functional team established pursuant to 
        subsection (c); and
            (2) serve as the senior designated official for fifth-
        generation wireless networking (commonly known as ``5G'') 
        policy, oversight, guidance, research, and coordination in the 
        Department.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The Chief Information Officer shall have, 
with respect to authorities referenced in subsection (a), the following 
responsibilities:
            (1) Proposing governance, management, and organizational 
        policy for fifth-generation wireless networking to the 
        Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the heads of the 
        constituent organizations of the cross-functional team 
        established pursuant to subsection (c).
            (2) Leading the cross-functional team established pursuant 
        to subsection (c).
    (c) Cross-functional Team for Fifth-generation Wireless 
Networking.--
            (1) Establishment required.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall, in accordance with section 911(c) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-
        328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), establish a cross-functional team for 
        fifth-generation wireless networking in order--
                    (A) to advance the adoption of commercially 
                available next generation wireless communication 
                technologies, capabilities, security, and applications 
                by the Department of Defense and the defense industrial 
                base; and
                    (B) to support public-private partnership between 
                the Department and industry regarding fifth-generation 
                wireless networking.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the cross-functional team 
        established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be the--
                    (A) oversight of the implementation of the strategy 
                developed as required by section 254 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
                Law 116-92) for harnessing fifth-generation wireless 
                networking technologies, coordinated across all 
                relevant elements of the Department;
                    (B) coordination of research and development, 
                implementation and acquisition activities, warfighting 
                concept development, spectrum policy, industrial policy 
                and commercial outreach and partnership relating to 
                fifth-generation wireless networking in the Department, 
                and interagency and international engagement;
                    (C) integration of the Department's fifth-
                generation wireless networking programs and policies 
                with major Department initiatives, programs, and 
                policies surrounding secure microelectronics and 
                command and control; and
                    (D) oversight, coordination, execution, and 
                leadership of initiatives to advance fifth-generation 
                wireless network technologies and associated 
                applications developed for the Department.
    (d) Roles and Responsibilities.--The Secretary of Defense, through 
the cross-functional team established under subsection (c), shall 
define the roles of the organizations within the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, Department of Defense intelligence components, 
military services, defense agencies and field activities, combatant 
commands, and the Joint Staff, for fifth-generation wireless networking 
policy and programs within the Department.
    (e) Briefing.--Not later than March 15, 2021, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the 
establishment of the cross-functional team pursuant to subsection (c) 
and the roles and responsibilities defined pursuant to subsection (d).
    (f) Rule of Construction.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
        as providing the Chief Information Officer immediate 
        responsibility for the Department's activities in fifth-
        generation wireless networking experimentation and science and 
        technology development.
            (2) Purview of experimentation and science and technology 
        development.--The activities described in paragraph (1) shall 
        remain within the purview of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Research and Engineering, but shall inform and be informed by 
        the activities of the cross-functional team established 
        pursuant to subsection (c).

SEC. 213. APPLICATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO THE DEFENSE REFORM 
              PILLAR OF THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY.

    (a) Identification of Use Cases.--The Secretary of Defense, acting 
through such officers and employees of the Department of Defense as the 
Secretary considers appropriate, including the chief data officers and 
chief management officers of the military departments, shall identify a 
set of no fewer than five use cases of the application of existing 
artificial intelligence enabled systems to support improved management 
of enterprise acquisition, personnel, audit, or financial management 
functions, or other appropriate management functions, that are 
consistent with reform efforts that support the National Defense 
Strategy.
    (b) Prototyping Activities Aligned to Use Cases.--The Secretary, 
acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering and in coordination with the Director of the Joint 
Artificial Intelligence Center and such other officers and employees as 
the Secretary considers appropriate, shall pilot technology development 
and prototyping activities that leverage commercially available 
technologies and systems to demonstrate new artificial intelligence 
enabled capabilities to support the use cases identified under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing summarizing 
the activities carried out under this section.

SEC. 214. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES TO ENHANCE INNOVATION AT DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE LABORATORIES.

    (a) Extension of Pilot Program for the Enhancement of the Research, 
Development, Test, and Evaluation Centers of the Department of 
Defense.--Section 233(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended 
by striking ``September 30, 2022'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2025''.
    (b) Extension of Pilot Program to Improve Incentives for Technology 
Transfer From Department of Defense Laboratories.--Subsection (e) of 
section 233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2514 note) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(e) Sunset.--The pilot program under this section shall terminate 
on September 30, 2025.''.

SEC. 215. UPDATES TO DEFENSE QUANTUM INFORMATION SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
              RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    Section 234 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), as 
amended by section 220 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Use of Quantum Computing Capabilities.--The Secretary of each 
military department shall--
            ``(1) develop and annually update a list of technical 
        problems and research challenges which are likely to be 
        addressable by quantum computers available for use within in 
        the next one to three years, with a priority for technical 
        problems and challenges where quantum computing systems have 
        performance advantages over traditional computing systems, in 
        order to enhance the capabilities of such quantum computers and 
        support the addressing of relevant technical problems and 
        research challenges; and
            ``(2) establish programs and enter into agreements with 
        appropriate medium and small businesses with functional quantum 
        computing capabilities to provide such private sector 
        capabilities to government, industry, and academic researchers 
        working on relevant technical problems and research 
        activities.''.

SEC. 216. PROGRAM OF PART-TIME AND TERM EMPLOYMENT AT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION LABORATORIES 
              OF FACULTY AND STUDENTS FROM INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER 
              EDUCATION.

    (a) Program Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
program to provide part-time or term employment in Department of 
Defense science and technology reinvention laboratories for--
            (1) faculty of institutions of higher education who have 
        expertise in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics 
        to conduct research projects in such laboratories; and
            (2) students at such institutions to assist such faculty in 
        conducting such research projects.
    (b) Number of Positions.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the commencement of the program established under subsection 
        (a), the Secretary shall, under such program, establish at 
        least 10 positions of employment described in such subsection 
        for faculty described in paragraph (1) of such subsection.
            (2) Artificial intelligence and machine learning.--Of the 
        positions established under paragraph (1), at least five of 
        such positions shall be for faculty conducting research in the 
        area of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
    (c) Selection.--The Secretary, acting through the directors of the 
laboratories described in subsection (a), shall select faculty 
described in paragraph (1) of such subsection for participation in the 
program established under such subsection on the basis of--
            (1) the academic credentials and research experience of the 
        faculty;
            (2) the potential contribution to Department objectives by 
        the research that will be conducted by the faculty under the 
        program; and
            (3) the qualifications of any students who will be 
        assisting the faculty in such research and the role and 
        credentials of such students.
    (d) Authorities.--In carrying out the program established under 
subsection (a), the Secretary and the directors of the laboratories 
described in such subsection may--
            (1) use any hiring authority available to the Secretary or 
        the directors, including any authority available under a 
        laboratory demonstration program, direct hiring authority under 
        section 1599h of title 10, United States Code, and expert 
        hiring authority under section 3109 of title 5, United States 
        Code;
            (2) utilize cooperative research and development agreements 
        under section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation 
        Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) to enable sharing of research and 
        expertise with institutions of higher education and the private 
        sector; and
            (3) provide referral bonuses to program participants who 
        identify students to assist in a research project under the 
        program or to participate in laboratory internship programs and 
        the Pathways Internship Program.
    (e) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once 
        each year thereafter until the date that is three years after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        submit to Congress a report on the program established under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Contents of first report.--The first report submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall address, at a minimum, the following:
                    (A) The number of faculty and students employed 
                under the program.
                    (B) The laboratories employing such faculty and 
                students.
                    (C) The types of research conducted or to be 
                conducted by such faculty or students.
            (3) Contents of subsequent reports.--Each report submitted 
        under paragraph (1) after the first report shall address, at a 
        minimum, the following:
                    (A) The matters set forth in subparagraphs (A) 
                through (C) of paragraph (2).
                    (B) The number of interns and recent college 
                graduates hired pursuant to referrals under subsection 
                (d)(3).
                    (C) The results of research conducted under the 
                program.
    (f) Department of Defense Science and Technology Reinvention 
Laboratory Defined.--In this section, the term ``Department of Defense 
science and technology reinvention laboratory'' means the entities 
designated by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note).

SEC. 217. IMPROVEMENTS TO TECHNOLOGY AND NATIONAL SECURITY FELLOWSHIP 
              OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Modification Regarding Basic Pay.--Subsection (a)(4)(A) of 
section 235 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``equivalent to'' and inserting ``not less 
        than''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and not more than the rate of basic pay 
        payable for a position at level 15 of such schedule'' before 
        the semicolon.
    (b) Background Checks.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Background check requirement.--No individual may 
        participate in the fellows program without first undergoing a 
        background check that the Secretary considers appropriate for 
        participation in the fellows program.''.

SEC. 218. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEPLOYMENT 
              OF TECHNOLOGY TO SUPPORT WATER SUSTAINMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall research, develop, 
and deploy advanced technologies that support water sustainment with 
technologies that capture ambient humidity and harvest, recycle, and 
reuse water.
    (b) Goal.--Under subsection (a), the Secretary shall seek to 
develop water systems that reduce weight and logistics support and 
transition such advanced technologies for use by expeditionary forces 
by January 1, 2025.
    (c) Modular Platforms.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall develop the following:
            (1) Modular platforms that are easily transportable.
            (2) Trailer mounted systems that will reduce resupply.
            (3) Storage requirements at forward operating bases.
    (d) Partnerships and Existing Techniques and Technologies.--In 
carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall seek--
            (1) to enter into partnerships with foreign militaries and 
        organizations that have proven they have the ability to operate 
        in water constrained areas;
            (2) to leverage existing techniques and technologies; and
            (3) to apply such techniques and technologies to military 
        operations carried out by the United States.
    (e) Commercial Off-the-shelf Technologies.--In carrying out 
subsection (a), in addition to technology described in such subsection, 
the Secretary shall consider using commercial off-the-shelf 
technologies for cost savings and near ready deployment technologies to 
enable warfighters to be more self-sufficient.
    (f) Cross Functional Teams.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall establish cross functional teams to determine regions 
where deployment of water harvesting technologies could reduce conflict 
and potentially eliminate the need for the presence of the Armed 
Forces.

SEC. 219. DEVELOPMENT AND TESTING OF HYPERSONIC CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress on Hypersonic Capabilities.--It is the sense 
of Congress that development of hypersonic capabilities is a key 
element of the National Defense Strategy.
    (b) Improving Ground-based Test Facilities.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall take such actions as may be necessary to improve ground-
based test facilities for the development of hypersonic capabilities, 
such as improving wind tunnels.
    (c) Increasing Flight Test Rate.--The Secretary shall increase the 
flight test rate to expedite the maturation and fielding of hypersonic 
technologies.
    (d) Strategy and Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 30, 2020, the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, in 
        consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees an executable 
        strategy and plan to field air-launched and air-breathing 
        hypersonic weapons capability before the date that is three 
        years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Testing and infrastructure.--The strategy and plan 
        submitted under paragraph (1) shall cover required investments 
        in testing and infrastructure to address the need for both 
        flight and ground testing.

SEC. 220. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR RECIPIENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GRANTS.

    (a) Disclosure Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 2374b. Disclosure requirements for recipients of research and 
              development grants
    ``An individual or entity (including a State or local government) 
that receives Department of Defense grant funds for research and 
development shall clearly state in any statement, press release, or 
other document describing the program, project, or activity funded 
through such grant funds, other than a communication containing not 
more than 280 characters, the dollar amount of Department grant funds 
made available for the program, project, or activity.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 139 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``2374b. Disclosure requirements for recipients of research and 
                            development grants.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2021, and shall apply with respect to grants 
for research and development that are awarded by the Department of 
Defense on or after that date.

             Subtitle C--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

SEC. 231. ASSESSMENT ON UNITED STATES NATIONAL SECURITY EMERGING 
              BIOTECHNOLOGY EFFORTS AND CAPABILITIES AND COMPARISON 
              WITH ADVERSARIES.

    (a) Assessment and Comparison Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and 
        the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, shall conduct 
        an assessment and direct comparison of capabilities in emerging 
        biotechnologies for national security purposes, including 
        applications in material, manufacturing, and health, between 
        the capabilities of the United States and the capabilities of 
        adversaries of the United States.
            (2) Elements.--The assessment and comparison carried out 
        under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) An evaluation of the quantity, quality, and 
                progress of United States fundamental and applied 
                research for emerging biotechnology initiatives for 
                national security purposes.
                    (B) An assessment of the resourcing of United 
                States efforts to harness emerging biotechnology 
                capabilities for national security purposes, including 
                the supporting facilities, test infrastructure, and 
                workforce.
                    (C) An intelligence assessment of adversary 
                emerging biotechnology capabilities and research as 
                well as an assessment of adversary intent and 
                willingness to use emerging biotechnologies for 
                national security purposes.
                    (D) An assessment of the analytic and operational 
                subject matter expertise necessary to assess rapidly-
                evolving foreign military developments in 
                biotechnology, and the current state of the workforce 
                in the intelligence community
                    (E) Recommendations to improve and accelerate 
                United States capabilities in emerging biotechnologies 
                and the associated intelligence community expertise.
                    (F) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a report on the assessment carried out under subsection (a).
            (2) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in the following formats--
                    (A) unclassified form, which may include a 
                classified annex; and
                    (B) publically releasable form, representing 
                appropriate information from the report under 
                subparagraph (A).
    (c) Definition of Intelligence Community.--In this subsection, the 
term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning given such term in 
section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

SEC. 232. INDEPENDENT COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF EFFORTS BY CHINA AND THE 
              UNITED STATES TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN RESEARCHERS IN 
              NATIONAL SECURITY-RELATED FIELDS.

    (a) Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into an agreement with the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine for the National Academies 
        of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to perform the services 
        covered by this section.
            (2) Timing.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into the 
        agreement described in paragraph (1) not later than 60 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Review.--
            (1) In general.--Under an agreement between the Secretary 
        and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
        Medicine under this section, the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall carry out a 
        comparative analysis of efforts by China and the United States 
        Government to recruit and retain domestic and foreign 
        researchers and develop recommendations for the Department of 
        Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The comparative analysis carried out under 
        paragraph (1) and the recommendations developed under such 
        paragraph shall include the following:
                    (A) A list of the ``talent programs'' used by China 
                and a list of the incentive programs used by the United 
                States to recruit and retain relevant researchers.
                    (B) The types of researchers, scientists, other 
                technical experts, and fields targeted by each talent 
                program listed under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) The number of researchers in academia, the 
                Department of Defense Science and Technology 
                Reinvention Laboratories, and national security science 
                and engineering programs of the National Nuclear 
                Security Administration targeted by the talent programs 
                listed under subparagraph (A).
                    (D) The number of personnel currently participating 
                in the talent programs listed under subparagraph (A) 
                and the number of researchers currently participating 
                in the incentive programs listed under such 
                subparagraph.
                    (E) The incentives offered by each of the talent 
                programs listed under subparagraph (A) and a 
                description of the incentives offered through incentive 
                programs under such subparagraph to recruit and retain 
                researchers, scientists, and other technical experts.
                    (F) A characterization of the national security, 
                economic, and scientific benefits China gains through 
                the talent programs listed under subparagraph (A) and a 
                description of similar gains accrued to the United 
                States through incentive programs listed under such 
                subparagraph.
                    (G) A list of findings and recommendations relating 
                to policies that can be implemented by the United 
                States, especially the Department of Defense, to 
                improve the relative effectiveness of United States 
                activities to recruit and retain researchers, 
                scientists, and other technical experts relative to 
                China.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the execution of an agreement under subsection (a), the 
        National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        findings National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
        Medicine with respect to the review carried out under this 
        section and the recommendations developed under this section.
            (2) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in a publicly releasable and unclassified formats, 
        but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 233. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE DEMONSTRATION OF VIRTUALIZED RADIO 
              ACCESS NETWORK AND MASSIVE MULTIPLE INPUT MULTIPLE OUTPUT 
              RADIO ARRAYS FOR FIFTH GENERATION WIRELESS NETWORKING.

    (a) Demonstration Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
out a demonstration to demonstrate the maturity, performance, and cost 
of covered technologies in order to provide additional options for 
providers of fifth-generation (5G) wireless networking services.
    (b) Covered Technologies.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
technology is--
            (1) a disaggregated or virtualized radio access network and 
        core where components can be provided by different vendors and 
        interoperate through open protocols and interfaces; and
            (2) one or more massive multiple input and multiple output 
        radio arrays provided by United States companies that have the 
        potential to compete favorably with radios produced by foreign 
        companies in terms of cost, performance, and efficiency.
    (c) Location.--The Secretary shall carry out the demonstration 
under subsection (a) at at least one site where the Secretary of 
Defense plans to deploy a fifth-generation wireless network.
    (d) Coordination.--The Secretary shall carry out the demonstration 
under subsection (a) in coordination with at least one major United 
States wireless network service provider.

SEC. 234. INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL REVIEW OF FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS 
              COMMISSION ORDER 20-48.

    (a) Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to 
        enter into an agreement with the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine for the National Academies 
        of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to perform the services 
        covered by this section.
            (2) Timing.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into the 
        agreement described in paragraph (1) not later than 30 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Independent Technical Review.--
            (1) In general.--Under an agreement between the Secretary 
        and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
        Medicine under subsection (a), the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall carry out an 
        independent technical review of the Order and Authorization 
        adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on April 19, 
        2020 (FCC 20-48), to the extent that such order and 
        authorization affects the devices, operations, or activities of 
        the Department of Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The independent technical review carried out 
        under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) Comparison of the two different approaches on 
                which the Commission relied for the order and 
                authorized described in paragraph (1) to evaluate the 
                potential harmful interference concerns relating to 
                Global Positioning System devices, with a 
                recommendation on which method most effectively 
                mitigates risks of harmful interference with Global 
                Positioning System devices of the Department, or 
                relating to or with the potential to affect the 
                operations and activities of the Department.
                    (B) Assessment of the potential for harmful 
                interference to mobile satellite services, including 
                commercial services and Global Positioning System 
                services of the Department, or relating to or with the 
                potential to affect the operations and activities of 
                the Department.
                    (C) Review of the feasibility, practicality, and 
                effectiveness of the proposed mitigation measures 
                relating to, or with the potential to affect, the 
                devices, operations, or activities of the Department.
                    (D) Development of recommendations associated with 
                the findings of the National Academies of Sciences, 
                Engineering, and Medicine in carrying out the 
                independent technical review.
                    (E) Such other matters as the National Academies of 
                Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine determines 
                relevant.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Under an agreement between the Secretary 
        and the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and 
        Medicine under subsection (a), the National Academies of 
        Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall, not later than nine 
        months after the date of the execution of such agreement, the 
        National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall 
        submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a 
        report on the findings of the National Academies of Sciences, 
        Engineering, and Medicine with respect to the independent 
        technical review carried out under subsection (b) and the 
        recommendations developed pursuant to such review.
            (2) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in a publicly releasable and unclassified formats, 
        but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 235. REPORT ON MICRO NUCLEAR REACTOR PROGRAMS.

    (a) Report Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the micro nuclear 
reactor programs of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) Potential operational uses on United States and non-
        United States territory, including both mobile and fixed 
        systems.
            (2) Cost and schedule estimates for each new or ongoing 
        program to reach initial operational capability, including the 
        timeline for transition of any program currently funded using 
        defense-wide funds to one or more military services and the 
        identified transition partner in such military services.
            (3) In consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
        for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense programs, an 
        assessment of physical security requirements for use of such 
        reactors on domestic military installations and non-United 
        States nondomestic installations or locations, including fully 
        permissive, semi-permissive, and remote environments, including 
        a preliminary design basis threat analysis.
            (4) In coordination with the Secretary of State--
                    (A) an assessment of any agreements or changes to 
                agreements that would be required for use of such 
                reactors on non-United States territory;
                    (B) an assessment of applicability of foreign 
                regulations or International Atomic Energy Agency 
                safeguards for use on non-United States territory; and
                    (C) other policy implications of deployment of such 
                systems on non-United States territory.
            (5) In coordination with the Chairman of the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission, a summary of licensing requirements for 
        operation of such systems on United States territory.
            (6) A summary of requirements pursuant to the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for 
        development and operation on United States territory.
            (7) In consultation with the General Counsel of the 
        Department of Defense, an assessment of any issues relating to 
        indemnification for operation on United States or non-United 
        States territory and any other relevant legal matters.
            (8) In coordination with the Secretary of State and the 
        Secretary of Energy, a determination of whether development, 
        production, and deployment of such systems would require 
        unobligated enriched uranium fuel.
            (9) If the determination in paragraph (8) is that 
        unobligated fuel would be required, in coordination with the 
        Administrator for Nuclear Security, an assessment of the 
        availability of such unobligated enriched uranium fuel, by 
        year, for the estimated life of the program, considered with 
        other United States Government demands for such fuel, including 
        tritium production, naval nuclear propulsion, and medical 
        isotope production.
            (10) Any other considerations the Secretary determines 
        relevant.
    (c) Consultation.--In addition to consultation and coordination 
required under subsection (b), the Secretary shall, in producing the 
report required by subsection (a), consult with the Secretary of the 
Army, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy, the Director of Naval Nuclear Propulsion, and such 
other officials as the Secretary considers necessary.
    (d) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                Resources, the Committee on Environment and Public 
                Works, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, the Committee on Energy and 
                Commerce, the Committee on Natural Resources, and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) The term ``micro nuclear reactor''means a nuclear 
        reactor with a production capacity of less than 20 megawatts.

SEC. 236. MODIFICATION TO TEST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CENTER STRATEGIC 
              PLAN REPORTING CYCLE AND CONTENTS.

    (a) Quadrennial Strategic Plan.--Section 196 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsections (c)(1)(C) and (e)(2)(B), by inserting 
        ``quadrennial'' before ``strategic plan''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in the heading, by inserting ``Quadrennial'' 
                before ``Strategic Plan''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``quadrennial'' before ``strategic 
                plan'' each place it occurs.
    (b) Timing and Coverage of Plan.--Subsection (d)(1) of such 
section, as amended by subsection (a)(2), is further amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``two fiscal years'' 
        and inserting ``four fiscal years, and within one year after 
        release of the National Defense Strategy,'' ; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``thirty fiscal 
        years'' and inserting ``15 fiscal years''.
    (c) Amendment to Contents of Plan.--Subsection (d)(2) of such 
section, as amended by subsection (a)(2), is further amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (B);
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (G) as 
        subparagraphs (B) through (F), respectively; and
            (3) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by paragraph (2), 
        by striking ``based on current'' and all that follows through 
        the end and inserting ``for test and evaluation of the 
        Department of Defense major weapon systems based on current and 
        emerging threats.''.
    (d) Annual Update to Plan.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5)(A) In addition to the quadrennial strategic plan completed 
under paragraph (1), the Director of the Department of Defense Test 
Resource Management Center shall also complete an annual update to the 
quadrennial strategic plan.
    ``(B) Each annual update completed under subparagraph (A) shall 
include the following:
            ``(i) A summary of changes to the assessment provided in 
        the most recent quadrennial strategic plan.
            ``(ii) Comments and recommendations the Director considers 
        appropriate.
            ``(iii) Test and evaluation challenges raised since the 
        completion of the most recent quadrennial strategic plan.
            ``(iv) Actions taken or planned to address such 
        challenges.''.
    (e) Technical Correction.--Subsection (d)(1) of such, as amended by 
subsections (a)(2) and (b), is further amended by striking ``Test 
Resources Management Center'' and inserting ``Test Resource Management 
Center''.

SEC. 237. LIMITATION ON CONTRACT AWARDS FOR CERTAIN UNMANNED VESSELS.

    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2021 by section 201 for research, development, test, 
and evaluation may be used for the award of a contract for a covered 
vessel until the date that is 30 days after the date on which the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering submits to the 
congressional defense committees a report and certification described 
in subsection (c) for such contract and covered vessel.
    (b) Covered Vessels.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
vessel is one of the following:
            (1) A large unmanned surface vessel (LUSV).
            (2) A medium unmanned surface vehicle (MUSV).
            (3) A large displacement unmanned undersea vehicle (LDUUV).
            (4) An extra-large unmanned undersea vehicle (XLUUV).
    (c) Report and Certification Described.--A report and certification 
described in this subsection regarding a contract for a covered vessel 
is--
            (1) a report--
                    (A) submitted to the congressional defense 
                committees not later than 60 days after the date of the 
                completion of an independent technical risk assessment 
                for such covered vessel; and
                    (B) on the findings of the Under Secretary with 
                respect to such assessment; and
            (2) a certification, submitted to the congressional defense 
        committees with the report described in paragraph (1), that 
        certifies that--
                    (A) the Under Secretary has determined, in 
                conjunction with the Senior Technical Authority 
                designated under section 8669b(a)(1) of title 10, 
                United States Code, for the class of naval vessels that 
                includes the covered vessel, that the critical mission, 
                hull, mechanical, and electrical subsystems of the 
                covered vessel--
                            (i) have been demonstrated in vessel-
                        representative form, fit, and function; and
                            (ii) have achieved performance levels equal 
                        to or greater than applicable Department of 
                        Defense threshold requirements for such class 
                        of vessels; and
                    (B) such contract is necessary to meet Department 
                research, development, test, and evaluation objectives 
                for such covered vessel that cannot otherwise be met 
                through further land-based subsystem prototyping or 
                other demonstration approaches.
    (d) Critical Mission, Hull, Mechanical, and Electrical Subsystems 
Defined.--In this section, the term ``critical mission, hull, 
mechanical, and electrical subsystems'', with respect to a covered 
vessel, includes the following subsystems:
            (1) Command, control, communications, computers, 
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
            (2) Autonomous vessel navigation, vessel control, contact 
        management, and contact avoidance.
            (3) Communications security, including cryptopgraphy, 
        encryption, and decryption.
            (4) Main engines, including the lube oil, fuel oil, and 
        other supporting systems.
            (5) Electrical generation and distribution, including 
        supporting systems.
            (6) Military payloads.
            (7) Any other subsystem identified as critical by the 
        Senior Technical Authority designated under section 8669b(a)(1) 
        of title 10, United States Code, for the class of naval vessels 
        that includes the covered vessel.

SEC. 238. DOCUMENTATION RELATING TO THE ADVANCED BATTLE MANAGEMENT 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Documentation Required.--Immediately upon the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the following documentation relating to the Advanced 
Battle Management System:
            (1) A list that identifies each program, project, and 
        activity that contributes to the architecture of the Advanced 
        Battle Management System.
            (2) The final analysis of alternatives for the Advanced 
        Battle Management System.
            (3) The requirements for the networked data architecture 
        necessary for the Advanced Battle Management System to provide 
        multidomain command and control and battle management 
        capabilities and a development schedule for such architecture.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for fiscal year 2021 for operations and maintenance for the Office 
of the Secretary of the Air Force, not more than 25 percent may be 
obligated until the date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional defense 
committees the documentation required by subsection (a) and the Vice 
Chairman of the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs certifies the 
documentation.
    (c) Advanced Battle Management System.--In this section, the term 
``Advanced Battle Management System'' means the Advanced Battle 
Management System of Systems capability of the Air Force, including 
each program, project, and activity that contributes to such 
capability.

SEC. 239. ARMED SERVICES VOCATIONAL APTITUDE BATTERY TEST SPECIAL 
              PURPOSE ADJUNCT TO ADDRESS COMPUTATIONAL THINKING.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a special purpose test 
adjunct to the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery test to 
address computational thinking skills relevant to military 
applications, including problem decomposition, abstraction, pattern 
recognition, analytical ability, the identification of variables 
involved in data representation, and the ability to create algorithms 
and solution expressions.

SEC. 240. REPORT ON USE OF TESTING FACILITIES TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOP 
              HYPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the costs and benefits of the use and potential 
refurbishment of existing operating and mothballed Federal research and 
testing facilities to support hypersonics activities of the Department 
of Defense.

SEC. 241. STUDY AND PLAN ON THE USE OF ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING AND 
              THREE-DIMENSIONAL BIOPRINTING IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              WARFIGHTER.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
use of additive manufacturing and three-dimensional bioprinting across 
the Military Health System.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall examine 
the activities currently underway by each of the military services and 
the Department agencies, including costs, sources of funding, 
oversight, collaboration, and outcomes.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the 
study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 242. ELEMENT IN ANNUAL REPORTS ON CYBER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
              ACTIVITIES ON WORK WITH ACADEMIC CONSORTIA ON HIGH 
              PRIORITY CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH ACTIVITIES IN DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE CAPABILITIES.

    Section 257(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Sta. 1291) is amended by 
adding at end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(J) Efforts to work with academic consortia on 
                high priority cybersecurity research activities.''.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

SEC. 311. MODIFICATIONS AND TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO ENSURE RESTORATION 
              OF CONTAMINATION BY PERFLUOROOCTANE SULFONATE AND 
              PERFLUOROOCTANOIC ACID.

    (a) Definition for PFOA and PFOS.--Section 2700 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs:
            ``(4) The term `perfluorooctane sulfonate' means 
        perfluorooctane sulfonic acid or sulfonate (commonly referred 
        to as `PFOS') (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 1763-23-1) and 
        the salts associated with perfluorooctane sulfonic acid or 
        sulfonate (Chemical Abstracts Service Nos. 2795-39-3, 29457-72-
        5, 56773-42-3, 29081-56-9, and 70225-14-8).
            ``(5) The term `perfluorooctanoic acid' means 
        perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly referred to as `PFOA') 
        (Chemical Abstracts Service No. 335-67-1) and the salts 
        associated with perfluorooctanoic acid (Chemical Abstracts 
        Service Nos. 3825-26-1, 335-95-5, and 68141-02-6).''.
    (b) Modification of Environmental Restoration Accounts.--Section 
2703 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ``environmental'';
            (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``to the Environmental 
        Restoration Account, Defense, or to any environmental 
        restoration account of a military department,'' and inserting 
        ``or transferred to an account established under subsection 
        (a)'';
            (3) by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following:
    ``(g) Sole Source of Funds for Responses Under This Chapter.--
Except as provided in subsection (h), the sole source of funds for all 
phases of a response under this chapter shall be the applicable 
environmental restoration account established under subsection (a).''; 
and
            (4) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Environmental Remediation'' and inserting 
                ``Responses''; and
                    (B) by striking ``services procured under section 
                2701(d)(1) of this title'' and inserting ``a 
                response''.
    (c) Modification of Authority for Environmental Restoration 
Projects of National Guard.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2707(e) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting 
                ``(1) Notwithstanding'';
                    (B) by inserting ``where military activities are 
                conducted by the National Guard of a State under title 
                32'' after ``facility''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary concerned may use the authority under section 
2701(d) of this title to carry out environmental restoration projects 
under paragraph (1).''.
            (2) Correction of definition of facility.--Paragraph (2) of 
        section 2700 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(A) The 
                terms'' and inserting ``The terms''; and
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (d) Extension of Contract Authority.--Section 2708(b) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``fiscal years 1992 
        through 1996'' and inserting ``a period specified in paragraph 
        (3)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) A period specified in this paragraph is--
            ``(A) the period of fiscal years 1992 through 1996; or
            ``(B) on or after the date of the enactment of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021.''.
    (e) Technical Consistency for Munitions Response.--
            (1) Program goals.--Section 2701(b)(2) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``of unexploded ordnance'' and inserting 
        ``of unexploded ordnance, discarded military munitions, and 
        munitions constituents in a manner consistent with section 2710 
        of this title''.
            (2) Environmental restoration accounts.--Section 2703(b) of 
        such title is amended by striking the second sentence and 
        inserting the following new sentence: ``Such remediation shall 
        be conducted in a manner consistent with section 2710 of this 
        title.''.
            (3) Transfer of definitions.--
                    (A) Transfer.--Paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 
                2710(e) of such title are--
                            (i) transferred to section 2700 of such 
                        title;
                            (ii) added at the end of such section; and
                            (iii) redesignated as paragraphs (6) and 
                        (7), respectively.
                    (B) Redesignation of definitions.--Section 2710(e) 
                of such title is amended by redesignating paragraphs 
                (4) through (7) as paragraphs (2) through (5), 
                respectively.
            (4) Conforming amendments.--Section 313(d) of the John 
        Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 
        (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 2710 note) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ```discarded military 
                        munitions', `munitions constituents', and 
                        `defense sites''' and inserting ```discarded 
                        military munitions' and `munitions 
                        constituents'''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``section 2710(e)'' and 
                        inserting ``section 2700''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `defense site' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 2710(e) of such title.''.
    (f) Technical Correction Regarding Cooperative Agreements.--Section 
332(a)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended, in the matter preceding 
subparagraph (A), by striking ``shall meet or exceed the most stringent 
of the following'' and inserting ``relating to a response shall reflect 
application to the response of the most protective of the following''.

SEC. 312. READINESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION INTEGRATION PROGRAM 
              TECHNICAL EDITS AND CLARIFICATION.

    (a) Use of Funds.--Section 2684a(i) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Funds obligated to carry out an agreement under this section 
shall be available for use with regard to any property in the 
geographic scope specified in the agreement--
            ``(A) at the time the funds are obligated; and
            ``(B) in any subsequent modification to the agreement.''.
    (b) Clarification of References to Eligible Entities.--
            (1) Definition.--Subsection (b) of section 2684a of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1), by striking ``An agreement under this section 
        may be entered into with'' and inserting ``For purposes of this 
        section, an eligible entity is''.
            (2) Acquisition of property and interests.--Subsection 
        (d)(1) of such section is amended by striking ``the entity or 
        entities'' each place it appears and inserting ``an eligible 
        entity or entities''.
            (3) Retroactive application.--The amendments made by 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) shall apply to any agreement entered 
        into under section 2684a of title 10, United States Code, on or 
        after December 2, 2002.

SEC. 313. SURVEY AND MARKET RESEARCH OF TECHNOLOGIES FOR PHASE OUT BY 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF USE OF FLUORINATED AQUEOUS FILM-
              FORMING FOAM.

    (a) Survey of Technologies and Market Research.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
        survey and market research of relevant technologies, other than 
        fire-fighting agent solutions, to determine whether any such 
        technologies are available and can be adapted quickly for use 
        by the Department of Defense to execute the phase-out by the 
        Department of the use of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam.
            (2) Technologies included.--The technologies surveyed or 
        researched under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) Hangar flooring systems.
                    (B) Liquid drainage flood assemblies.
                    (C) Fire-fighting agent delivery systems.
                    (D) Containment systems.
                    (E) Such other relevant technologies as the 
                Secretary determines appropriate.
    (b) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the 
        congressional defense committees on the results of the survey 
        and market research conducted under subsection (a).
            (2) Elements of briefing.--The briefing required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the technologies surveyed and 
                researched under subsection (a).
                    (B) An identification of any such technologies that 
                were considered for further testing or analysis.
                    (C) An identification of any other technologies 
                useful for the phase-out by the Department of the use 
                of fluorinated aqueous film-forming foam that are 
                undergoing additional analysis for possible application 
                within the Department.

SEC. 314. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT MILITARY INSTALLATION 
              RESILIENCE PROJECTS.

    (a) Modification of Authority.--Section 2815 of title 10, United 
States Code is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``(except as provided 
        in subsections (d)(3) and (e))'' before the period at the end;
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``A project'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (e)(2), a 
        project'';
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(d) Location of Projects.--Projects carried out pursuant to this 
section may be carried out--
            ``(1) on a military installation;
            ``(2) on a facility used by the Department of Defense that 
        is owned and operated by a State, the District of Columbia, the 
        Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Virgin 
        Islands, even if the facility is not under the jurisdiction of 
        the Department of Defense, if the Secretary of Defense 
        determines that the facility is subject to significant use by 
        the armed forces for testing or training; or
            ``(3) outside of a military installation or facility 
        described in paragraph (2) if the Secretary concerned 
        determines that the project would preserve or enhance the 
        resilience of--
                    ``(A) a military installation;
                    ``(B) a facility described in paragraph (2); or
                    ``(C) community infrastructure determined by the 
                Secretary concerned to be necessary to maintain, 
                improve, or rapidly reestablish installation mission 
                assurance and mission-essential functions.
    ``(e) Alternative Funding Source.--(1) In carrying out a project 
under this section, the Secretary concerned may use amounts available 
for operation and maintenance for the military department concerned if 
the Secretary concerned submits a notification to the congressional 
defense committees of the decision to carry out the project using such 
amounts and includes in the notification--
            ``(A) the current estimate of the cost of the project;
            ``(B) the source of funds for the project; and
            ``(C) a certification that deferral of the project for 
        inclusion in the next Military Construction Authorization Act 
        would be inconsistent with national security or the protection 
        of health, safety, or environmental quality, as the case may 
        be.
    ``(2) A project carried out under this section using amounts under 
paragraph (1) may be carried out only after the end of the 7-day period 
beginning on the date on which a copy of the notification described in 
paragraph (1) is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 
480 of this title.
    ``(3) The maximum aggregate amount that the Secretary concerned may 
obligate from amounts available to the military department concerned 
for operation and maintenance in any fiscal year for projects under the 
authority of this subsection is $100,000,000.''.
    (b) Consideration of Military Installation Resilience in Agreements 
and Interagency Cooperation.--Section 2684a of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B)--
                            (i) by striking clause (ii); and
                            (ii) in clause (i)--
                                    (I) by striking ``(i)''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``; or'' and 
                                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) maintaining or improving military installation 
        resilience; or''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (h) to read as follows:
    ``(h) Interagency Cooperation in Conservation and Resilience 
Programs to Avoid or Reduce Adverse Impacts on Military Installation 
Resilience and Military Readiness Activities.--In order to facilitate 
interagency cooperation and enhance the effectiveness of actions that 
will protect the environment, military installation resilience, and 
military readiness, the recipient of funds provided pursuant to an 
agreement under this section or under the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670 et 
seq.) may, with regard to the lands and waters within the scope of the 
agreement, use such funds to satisfy any matching funds or cost-sharing 
requirement of any conservation or resilience program of any Federal 
agency notwithstanding any limitation of such program on the source of 
matching or cost-sharing funds.''.

SEC. 315. NATIVE AMERICAN INDIAN LANDS ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 160 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish and 
carry out a program to mitigate the environmental effects of actions by 
the Department of Defense on Indian lands and culturally connected 
locations.
    ``(b) Program Activities.--The activities that may be carried out 
under the program established under subsection (a) are the following:
            ``(1) Identification, investigation, and documentation of 
        suspected environmental effects attributable to past actions by 
        the Department of Defense.
            ``(2) Development of mitigation options for such 
        environmental effects, including development of cost-to-
        complete estimates and a system for prioritizing mitigation 
        actions.
            ``(3) Direct mitigation actions that the Secretary 
        determines are necessary and appropriate to mitigate the 
        adverse environmental effects of past actions by the 
        Department.
            ``(4) Demolition and removal of unsafe buildings and 
        structures used by, under the jurisdiction of, or formerly used 
        by or under the jurisdiction of the Department.
            ``(5) Training, technical assistance, and administrative 
        support to facilitate the meaningful participation of Indian 
        tribes in mitigation actions under the program.
            ``(6) Development and execution of a policy governing 
        consultation with Indian tribes that have been or may be 
        affected by action by the Department, including training 
        personnel of the Department to ensure compliance with the 
        policy.
    ``(c) Cooperative Agreements.--(1) In carrying out the program 
established under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may enter 
into a cooperative agreement with an Indian tribe or an instrumentality 
of tribal government.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, a cooperative 
agreement under this section may be used to acquire property or 
services for the direct benefit of the United States Government.
    ``(3) A cooperative agreement under this section for the 
procurement of severable services may begin in one fiscal year and end 
in another fiscal year only if the total period of performance does not 
exceed two calendar years.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `Indian land' includes--
                    ``(A) any land located within the boundaries and a 
                part of an Indian reservation, pueblo, or rancheria;
                    ``(B) any land that has been allotted to an 
                individual Indian but has not been conveyed to such 
                Indian with full power of alienation;
                    ``(C) Alaska Native village and regional 
                corporation lands; and
                    ``(D) lands and waters upon which any Federally 
                recognized Indian tribe has rights reserved by treaty, 
                act of Congress, or action by the President.
            ``(2) The term `Indian Tribe' means any Indian Tribe, band, 
        nation, or other organized group or community, including any 
        Native village, Regional Corporation, or Village Corporation 
        (as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
        Act (43 U.S.C. 1602)), that is recognized as eligible for the 
        special programs and services provided by the United States to 
        Indians because of their status as Indians.
            ``(3) The term `culturally connected location' means a 
        location or place that has demonstrable significance to Indians 
        or Alaska Natives based on its association with the traditional 
        beliefs, customs, and practices of a living community, 
        including locations or places where religious, ceremonial, 
        subsistence, medicinal, economic, or other lifeways practices 
        have historically taken place.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 160 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2711 the following new item:

``2712. Native American lands environmental mitigation program.''.

SEC. 316. ENERGY RESILIENCE AND ENERGY SECURITY MEASURES ON MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 173 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2919 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2920. Energy resilience and energy security measures on military 
              installations
    ``(a) Energy Resilience Measures.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall, by the end of fiscal year 2030, provide that 100 percent of the 
energy load required to maintain the critical missions of each 
installation have a minimum level of availability of 99.9 percent per 
fiscal year.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall issue standards establishing 
levels of availability relative to specific critical missions, with 
such standards providing a range of not less than 99.9 percent 
availability per fiscal year and not more than 99.9999 percent 
availability per fiscal year, depending on the criticality of the 
mission.
    ``(3) The Secretary may establish interim goals to take effect 
prior to fiscal year 2025 to ensure the requirements under this 
subsection are met.
    ``(4) The Secretary of each military department and the head of 
each Defense Agency shall ensure that their organizations meet the 
requirements of this subsection.
    ``(b) Planning.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall require the 
Secretary of each military department and the head of each Defense 
Agency to plan for the provision of energy resilience and energy 
security for installations.
    ``(2) Planning under paragraph (1) shall--
            ``(A) promote the use of multiple and diverse sources of 
        energy, with an emphasis favoring energy resources originating 
        on the installation such as modular generation;
            ``(B) promote installing microgrids to ensure the energy 
        security and energy resilience of critical missions; and
            ``(C) favor the use of full-time, installed energy sources 
        rather than emergency generation.
    ``(c) Development of Information.--The planning required by 
subsection (b) shall identify each of the following for each 
installation:
            ``(1) The critical missions of the installation.
            ``(2) The energy requirements of those critical missions.
            ``(3) The duration that those energy requirements are 
        likely to be needed in the event of a disruption or emergency.
            ``(4) The current source of energy provided to those 
        critical missions.
            ``(5) The duration that the currently provided energy would 
        likely be available in the event of a disruption or emergency.
            ``(6) Any currently available sources of energy that would 
        provide uninterrupted energy to critical missions in the event 
        of a disruption or emergency.
            ``(7) Alternative sources of energy that could be developed 
        to provide uninterrupted energy to critical missions in the 
        event of a disruption or emergency.
    ``(d) Testing and Measuring.--(1)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall 
require the Secretary of each military department and head of each 
Defense Agency to conduct monitoring, measuring, and testing to provide 
the data necessary to comply with this section.
    ``(B) Any data provided under subparagraph (A) shall be made 
available to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment upon 
request.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall require that black start 
exercises be conducted to assess the energy resilience and energy 
security of installations for periods established to evaluate the 
ability of the installation to perform critical missions without access 
to off-installation energy resources.
    ``(B) A black start exercise conducted under subparagraph (A) may 
exclude, if technically feasible, housing areas, commissaries, 
exchanges, and morale, welfare, and recreation facilities.
    ``(C) The Secretary of Defense shall--
            ``(i) provide uniform policy for the military departments 
        and the Defense Agencies with respect to conducting black start 
        exercises; and
            ``(ii) establish a schedule of black start exercises for 
        the military departments and the Defense Agencies, with each 
        military department and Defense Agency scheduled to conduct 
        such an exercise on a number of installations each year 
        sufficient to allow that military department or Defense Agency 
        to meet the goals of this section, but in any event not fewer 
        than five installations each year for each military department 
        through fiscal year 2027.
    ``(D)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), the Secretary of each 
military department shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
conduct black start exercises in accordance with the schedule provided 
for in subparagraph (C)(ii), with any such exercise not to last longer 
than five days.
    ``(ii) The Secretary of a military department may conduct more 
black start exercises than those identified in the schedule provided 
for in subparagraph (C)(ii).
    ``(e) Contract Requirements.--For contracts for energy and utility 
services, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            ``(1) specify methods and processes to measure, manage, and 
        verify compliance with subsection (a); and
            ``(2) ensure that such contracts include requirements 
        appropriate to ensure energy resilience and energy security, 
        including requirements for metering to measure, manage, and 
        verify energy consumption, availability, and reliability 
        consistent with this section and the energy resilience metrics 
        and standards under section 2911(b) of this title.
    ``(f) Exception.--This section does not apply to fuels used in 
aircraft, vessels, or motor vehicles.
    ``(g) Report.--If by the end of fiscal year 2029, the Secretary 
determines that the Department will be unable to meet the requirements 
under subsection (a), not later than 90 days after the end of such 
fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report 
detailing--
            ``(1) the projected shortfall;
            ``(2) reasons for the projected shortfall;
            ``(3) any statutory, technological, or monetary impediments 
        to achieving such requirements;
            ``(4) any impact to readiness or ability to meet the 
        national defense posture; and
            ``(5) any other relevant information as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `availability' means the availability of 
        required energy at a stated instant of time or over a stated 
        period of time for a specific purpose.
            ``(2) The term `black start exercise' means an exercise in 
        which delivery of energy provided from off an installation is 
        terminated before backup generation assets on the installation 
        are turned on. Such an exercise shall--
                    ``(A) determine the ability of the backup systems 
                to start independently, transfer the load, and carry 
                the load until energy from off the installation is 
                restored;
                    ``(B) align organizations with critical missions to 
                coordinate in meeting critical mission requirements;
                    ``(C) validate mission operation plans, such as 
                continuity of operations plans;
                    ``(D) identify infrastructure interdependencies; 
                and
                    ``(E) verify backup electric power system 
                performance.
            ``(3) The term `critical mission'--
                    ``(A) means those aspects of the missions of an 
                installation, including mission essential operations, 
                that are critical to successful performance of the 
                strategic national defense mission;
                    ``(B) may include operational headquarters 
                facilities, airfields and supporting infrastructure, 
                harbor facilities supporting naval vessels, munitions 
                production and storage facilities, missile fields, 
                radars, satellite control facilities, cyber operations 
                facilities, space launch facilities, operational 
                communications facilities, and biological defense 
                facilities; and
                    ``(C) does not include military housing (including 
                privatized military housing), morale, welfare, and 
                recreation facilities, exchanges, commissaries, or 
                privately owned facilities.
            ``(4) The term `energy' means electricity, natural gas, 
        steam, chilled water, and heated water.
            ``(5) The term `installation' has the meaning given the 
        term `military installation' in section 2801(c)(4) of this 
        title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter I of chapter 173 of such title is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 2919 the following new item:

``2920. Energy resilience and energy security measures on military 
                            installations.''.

SEC. 317. MODIFICATION TO AVAILABILITY OF ENERGY COST SAVINGS FOR 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 2912(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``and, in the case of operational energy, from both training 
and operational missions,'' after ``under section 2913 of this 
title,''.

SEC. 318. LONG-DURATION DEMONSTRATION INITIATIVE AND JOINT PROGRAM.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Environmental Security Technology Certification Program of 
        the Department of Defense.
            (2) Director of arpa-e.--The term ``Director of ARPA-E'' 
        means the Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency--
        Energy.
            (3) Initiative.--The term ``Initiative'' means the 
        demonstration initiative established under subsection (b).
            (4) Joint program.--The term ``Joint Program'' means the 
        joint program established under subsection (d).
    (b) Establishment of Initiative.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall establish a 
demonstration initiative composed of demonstration projects focused on 
the development of long-duration energy storage technologies.
    (c) Selection of Projects.--To the maximum extent practicable, in 
selecting demonstration projects to participate in the Initiative, the 
Director shall--
            (1) ensure a range of technology types;
            (2) ensure regional diversity among projects; and
            (3) consider bulk power level, distribution power level, 
        behind-the-meter, microgrid (grid-connected or islanded mode), 
        and off-grid applications.
    (d) Joint Program.--
            (1) Establishment.--As part of the Initiative, the 
        Director, in consultation with the Director of ARPA-E, shall 
        establish within the Department of Defense a joint program to 
        carry out projects--
                    (A) to demonstrate promising long-duration energy 
                storage technologies at different scales to promote 
                energy resiliency; and
                    (B) to help new, innovative long-duration energy 
                storage technologies become commercially viable.
            (2) Memorandum of understanding.--Not later than 200 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall 
        enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Director of 
        ARPA-E to administer the Joint Program.
            (3) Infrastructure.--In carrying out the Joint Program, the 
        Director and the Director of ARPA-E shall--
                    (A) use existing test-bed infrastructure at--
                            (i) installations of the Department of 
                        Defense; and
                            (ii) facilities of the Department of 
                        Energy; and
                    (B) develop new infrastructure for identified 
                projects, if appropriate.
            (4) Goals and metrics.--The Director and the Director of 
        ARPA-E shall develop goals and metrics for technological 
        progress under the Joint Program consistent with energy 
        resilience and energy security policies.
            (5) Selection of projects.--
                    (A) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
                in selecting projects to participate in the Joint 
                Program, the Director and the Director of ARPA-E 
                shall--
                            (i) ensure that projects are carried out 
                        under conditions that represent a variety of 
                        environments with different physical conditions 
                        and market constraints; and
                            (ii) ensure an appropriate balance of--
                                    (I) larger, higher-cost projects; 
                                and
                                    (II) smaller, lower-cost projects.
                    (B) Priority.--In carrying out the Joint Program, 
                the Director and the Director of ARPA-E shall give 
                priority to demonstration projects that--
                            (i) make available to the public project 
                        information that will accelerate deployment of 
                        long-duration energy storage technologies that 
                        promote energy resiliency; and
                            (ii) will be carried out in the field.

SEC. 319. PILOT PROGRAM ON ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLE PURCHASING.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the General Services 
Administration, shall carry out a pilot program under which the 
Secretary of Defense may, notwithstanding section 400AA of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6374), purchase new alternative 
fuel vehicles for which the initial cost of such vehicles exceeds the 
initial cost of a comparable gasoline or diesel fueled vehicle by not 
more than 10 percent.
    (b) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
        the pilot program under subsection (a) at not fewer than 2 
        facilities or installations of the Department of Defense in the 
        continental United States that--
                    (A) have the largest total number of attached 
                noncombat vehicles as compared to other facilities or 
                installations of the Department of Defense; and
                    (B) are located within 20 miles of public or 
                private refueling or recharging stations.
            (2) Air force logistics center.--One of the facilities or 
        installations selected under paragraph (1) shall be an Air 
        Force Logistics Center.
    (c) Alternative Fuel Vehicle Defined.--In this section, the term 
``alternative fuel vehicle'' includes a vehicle that uses--
            (1) fuels derived from renewable biomass, as defined in 
        section 211(o)(1)(I) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
        7545(o)(1)(I));
            (2) natural gas (including compressed and liquefied natural 
        gas); or
            (3) propane.

SEC. 320. EXTENSION OF REAL-TIME SOUND MONITORING AT NAVY INSTALLATIONS 
              WHERE TACTICAL FIGHTER AIRCRAFT OPERATE.

    Section 325(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by striking ``a 12-
month period'' and inserting ``two 12-month periods, including one such 
period that begins in fiscal year 2021''.

SEC. 321. STUDY ON IMPACTS OF TRANSBOUNDARY FLOWS, SPILLS, OR 
              DISCHARGES OF POLLUTION OR DEBRIS FROM THE TIJUANA RIVER 
              ON PERSONNEL, ACTIVITIES, AND INSTALLATIONS OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency, the Secretary of State, and the United 
        States Commissioner of the International Boundary and Water 
        Commission, shall commission an independent scientific study of 
        the impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of 
        pollution or debris from the Tijuana River on the personnel, 
        activities, and installations of the Department of Defense.
            (2) Elements.--The study required by paragraph (1) shall 
        address the short-term, long-term, primary, and secondary 
        impacts of transboundary flows, spills, or discharges of 
        pollution or debris from the Tijuana River and include 
        recommendations to mitigate such impacts.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report containing the results of 
the study under subsection (a), including all findings and 
recommendations resulting from the study.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Environment and Public Works, and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure, and the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 322. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR STUDY BY CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL 
              AND PREVENTION RELATING TO PERFLUOROALKYL AND 
              POLYFLUOROALKYL SUBSTANCE CONTAMINATION IN DRINKING 
              WATER.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Increase.--The amount authorized to be appropriated by 
        this Act for fiscal year 2021 for Operation and Maintenance, 
        Defense Wide for SAG 4GTN for the study by the Centers for 
        Disease Control and Prevention under section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 
        (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1350) is hereby increased by 
        $5,000,000.
            (2) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated by 
        this Act for fiscal year 2021 for Operation and Maintenance, 
        Army for SAG 421, Servicewide Transportation is hereby reduced 
        by $5,000,000.
    (b) Increase in Transfer Authority.--Section 316(a)(2)(B)(ii) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 
115-91; 131 Stat. 1350), as amended by section 315(a) of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1713), is amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' 
and inserting ``$15,000,000''.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

SEC. 331. REPEAL OF STATUTORY REQUIREMENT FOR NOTIFICATION TO DIRECTOR 
              OF DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY THREE YEARS PRIOR TO 
              IMPLEMENTING CHANGES TO ANY UNIFORM OR UNIFORM COMPONENT.

    Section 356 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 10 U.S.C. 771 note prec.) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (a) and (b), respectively; and
            (3) in subsections (a) and (b), as so redesignated, by 
        striking ``Commander'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Director''.

SEC. 332. CLARIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON LENGTH OF OVERSEAS FORWARD 
              DEPLOYMENT OF CURRENTLY DEPLOYED NAVAL VESSELS.

    Section 323(b) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1720; 10 U.S.C. 
8690 note) is amended by striking ``In the case of any naval vessel'' 
and inserting ``In the case of any aircraft carrier, amphibious ship, 
cruiser, destroyer, frigate, or littoral combat ship''.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

SEC. 351. REPORT ON IMPACT OF PERMAFROST THAW ON INFRASTRUCTURE, 
              FACILITIES, AND OPERATIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a comprehensive report on the impact 
of permafrost thaw on the infrastructure, facilities, assets, and 
operations of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An identification of the infrastructure, facilities, 
        and assets of the Department of Defense that could be impacted 
        by permafrost thaw.
            (2) For each element of infrastructure and each facility 
        and asset identified pursuant to paragraph (1)--
                    (A) an assessment of the threat posed by permafrost 
                thaw; and
                    (B) an estimate of potential damage in the event of 
                likely permafrost thaw.
            (3) A description of the threats and impacts posed by 
        permafrost thaw to military and other national security 
        operations.
    (c) Consultation.--In preparing the report under subsection (a), 
the Secretary may consult with other Federal agencies, agencies of 
State and local governments, and academic institutions with expertise 
or experience in the effects of permafrost thaw on infrastructure, 
facilities, and operations.
    (d) Asset Defined.--In this section, the term ``asset'' means the 
following:
            (1) Any aircraft, weapon system, vehicle, equipment, or 
        gear of the Department of Defense or the Armed Forces.
            (2) Any other item of the Department or the Armed Forces 
        that the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of this 
        section.

SEC. 352. PLANS AND REPORTS ON EMERGENCY RESPONSE TRAINING FOR MILITARY 
              INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Plans.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        ensure that each military installation under the jurisdiction 
        of the Secretary that does not conduct live emergency response 
        training on an annual basis or more frequently with the 
        civilian law enforcement and emergency response agencies 
        responsible for responding to an emergency at the installation 
        develops a plan to conduct such training.
            (2) Elements.--Each plan developed under paragraph (1) with 
        respect to an installation--
                    (A) shall include--
                            (i) the cost of implementing training 
                        described in paragraph (1) at the installation;
                            (ii) a description of any obstacles to the 
                        implementation of such training; and
                            (iii) recommendations for mitigating any 
                        such obstacles; and
                    (B) shall be designed to ensure that the civilian 
                law enforcement and emergency response agencies 
                described in paragraph (1) are familiar with--
                            (i) the physical features of the 
                        installation, including gates, buildings, 
                        armories, headquarters, command and control 
                        centers, and medical facilities; and
                            (ii) the emergency response personnel and 
                        procedures of the installation.
            (3) Submittal of plans.--
                    (A) Submittal to secretary.--Not later than 90 days 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
                commander of each military installation required to 
                develop a plan under paragraph (1) shall submit such 
                plan to the Secretary of Defense.
                    (B) Submittal to congress.--Not later than 180 days 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
                a summary of the plans submitted to the Secretary under 
                subparagraph (A).
    (b) Reports on Training Conducted.--
            (1) List of installations.--Not later than March 1, 2021, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives a list of all 
        military installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
        that conduct live emergency response training on an annual 
        basis or more frequently with the civilian law enforcement and 
        emergency response agencies responsible for responding to an 
        emergency at the installation.
            (2) Annual reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
                thereafter, the commander of each military installation 
                under the jurisdiction of the Secretary shall submit to 
                the Secretary a report on each live emergency response 
                training conducted during the year covered by the 
                report with the civilian law enforcement and emergency 
                response agencies responsible for responding to an 
                emergency at the installation.
                    (B) Elements.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include, with respect to each 
                training exercise, the following:
                            (i) The date and duration of the exercise.
                            (ii) A detailed description of the 
                        exercise.
                            (iii) An identification of all military and 
                        civilian personnel who participated in the 
                        exercise.
                            (iv) Any recommendations resulting from the 
                        exercise.
                            (v) The actions taken, if any, to implement 
                        such recommendations.
                    (C) Inclusion in annual budget submission.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary shall 
                        include in the budget submitted to Congress by 
                        the President pursuant to section 1105(a) of 
                        title 31, United States Code, a summary of any 
                        report submitted to the Secretary under 
                        subparagraph (A) during the one-year period 
                        preceding the submittal of the budget.
                            (ii) Classified form.--The summary 
                        submitted under clause (i) may be submitted in 
                        classified form.
                    (D) Sunset.--The requirement to submit annual 
                reports under subparagraph (A) shall terminate upon the 
                submittal of the budget described in subparagraph 
                (C)(i) for fiscal year 2024.

SEC. 353. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
              REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO RENEWABLE FUEL PUMPS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a report on the implementation by the Department of Defense of 
the requirements under section 246(a) of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17053(a)).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An estimate of the cost to the Department of fully 
        implementing the requirements under section 246(a) of the 
        Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007; and
            (2) An assessment of any problems or issues the Department 
        is having in complying with the requirements under such 
        section.
    (c) Exception.--The report required by subsection (a) shall not 
apply to a fueling center of the Department with a fuel turnover rate 
of less than 100,000 gallons of fuel per year.

SEC. 354. REPORT ON EFFECTS OF EXTREME WEATHER ON DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on vulnerabilities to 
military installations and combatant commander requirements resulting 
from extreme weather that builds upon the report submitted under 
section 335(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1358).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An explanation of the underlying methodology that the 
        Department uses to assess the effects of extreme weather in the 
        report, including through the use of a climate vulnerability 
        and risk assessment tool as directed under section 326 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
        Law 116-92).
            (2) An assessment of how extreme weather affects low-lying 
        military installations, military installations of the Navy and 
        the Marine Corps, and military installations outside the United 
        States.
            (3) An assessment of how extreme weather affects access of 
        members of the Armed Forces to training ranges.
            (4) With respect to a military installation in a country 
        outside the United States, an assessment of the collaboration 
        between the Department of Defense and the military or civilian 
        agencies of the government of that country or nongovernmental 
        organizations operating in that country to adapt to risks from 
        extreme weather.
            (5) An assessment of how extreme weather affects housing 
        safety and food security on military installations.
            (6) An assessment of the strategic benefits derived from 
        isolating infrastructure of the Department of Defense in the 
        United States from the national electric grid and the use of 
        energy-efficient, distributed, and smart power grids by the 
        Armed Forces in the United States and overseas to ensure 
        affordable access to electricity.
            (7) A list of ten military installation resilience projects 
        conducted within each military department.
            (8) An overview of mitigations, in addition to current 
        efforts undertaken by the Department, that may be necessary to 
        ensure the continued operational viability and to increase the 
        resilience of military installations, and the estimated costs 
        of those mitigations.
    (c) Consultation.--In developing the report required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the 
Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 
the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the 
Commander of the Army Corps of Engineers, the Administrator of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, a federally funded 
research and development center, and the heads of such other relevant 
Federal agencies as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate.
    (d) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex if 
necessary.
    (e) Publication.--Upon submittal of the report required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall publish the unclassified 
portion of the report on an Internet website of the Department of 
Defense that is available to the public.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Extreme weather.--The term ``extreme weather'' means 
        recurrent flooding, drought, desertification, wildfires, and 
        thawing permafrost.
            (2) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or 
        possession of the United States.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 371. PROHIBITION ON DIVESTITURE OF MANNED INTELLIGENCE, 
              SURVEILLANCE, AND RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT OPERATED BY 
              UNITED STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND.

    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be used to 
divest any manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
aircraft operated by the United States Special Operations Command, and 
the Department of Defense may not divest any manned intelligence, 
surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft operated by the United States 
Special Operations Command in fiscal year 2021.

SEC. 372. INFORMATION ON OVERSEAS CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN SUPPORT OF 
              CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS USING FUNDS FOR OPERATION AND 
              MAINTENANCE.

    (a) Annual Budget Justification Display.--Section 2805(c) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary concerned'' and inserting 
        ``(1) The Secretary concerned''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) The Secretary of each military department, the Director of 
each Defense Agency, and the head of any other relevant component of 
the Department of Defense shall track and report to the Under Secretary 
of Defense (Comptroller) relevant data regarding all overseas 
construction projects funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available for operation and maintenance in support of contingency 
operations.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall prepare, for inclusion in 
the annual budget submission by the President to Congress under section 
1105 of title 31, a consolidated budget justification display, in 
classified and unclassified form, that identifies all overseas 
construction projects funded with amounts appropriated or otherwise 
made available for operation and maintenance in support of contingency 
operations.
    ``(B) The display prepared under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
list of all construction projects described in such subparagraph that 
were completed in the prior fiscal year, that are ongoing, or that are 
expected for the next five fiscal years, and shall identify for each 
project--
            ``(i) the component of the Department of Defense involved 
        in the project;
            ``(ii) the location of the project;
            ``(iii) a brief description of the purpose of the project; 
        and
            ``(iv) the actual or estimated cost of the project.''.
    (b) Report on Construction Projects in Support of Contingency 
Operations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on ways to improve the development, 
        funding, and execution of construction projects in support of 
        overseas contingency operations, including those funded with 
        amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for operation 
        and maintenance and those funded with amounts appropriated or 
        otherwise made available for military construction.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include, at a minimum, the following:
                    (A) An examination and comparison of the time 
                required to plan, approve, and execute construction 
                projects funded with operation and maintenance amounts 
                versus those funded with military construction amounts, 
                in support of contingency operations, including 
                construction projects in support of recent operations 
                in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, and Eastern Europe.
                    (B) A description of any challenges associated with 
                the processes of the Department of Defense for 
                planning, approving, and executing such projects.
                    (C) A description of any ongoing or planned efforts 
                to improve such processes to promote efficiency and 
                expediency in the development and execution of such 
                projects.
                    (D) Any recommendations with respect to improving 
                such processes, including those from the commanders of 
                the combatant commands and the Secretaries of the 
                military departments.

SEC. 373. PROVISION OF PROTECTION TO THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE MARINE 
              CORPS, THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY, THE 
              NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES NAVY, AND THE 
              NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE.

    Section 2465(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) A contract for the performance of on-site armed 
        security guard functions to be performed--
                    ``(A) at the Marine Corps Heritage Center at Marine 
                Corps Base Quantico, Virginia, including the National 
                Museum of the Marine Corps;
                    ``(B) at the Heritage Center for the National 
                Museum of the United States Army at Fort Belvoir, 
                Virginia;
                    ``(C) at the Heritage Center for the National 
                Museum of the United States Navy at Washington, 
                District of Columbia; or
                    ``(D) at the Heritage Center for the National 
                Museum of the United States Air Force at Wright-
                Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.''.

SEC. 374. INAPPLICABILITY OF CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION AND DOLLAR 
              LIMITATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVANCE BILLINGS FOR CERTAIN 
              BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.

    Section 2208(l) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
    ``(4) This subsection shall not apply to advance billing for 
background investigation and related services performed by the Defense 
Counterintelligence and Security Agency.''.

SEC. 375. REPEAL OF SUNSET FOR MINIMUM ANNUAL PURCHASE AMOUNT FOR 
              CARRIERS PARTICIPATING IN THE CIVIL RESERVE AIR FLEET.

    Section 9515 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsection (k).

SEC. 376. IMPROVEMENT OF THE OPERATIONAL ENERGY CAPABILITY IMPROVEMENT 
              FUND OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Management of the Operational Energy Capability Improvement 
Fund.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Sustainment shall 
exercise authority, direction, and control over the Operational Energy 
Capability Improvement Fund of the Department of Defense (in this 
section referred to as the ``OECIF'').
    (b) Alignment and Coordination With Related Programs.--
            (1) Realignment of oecif.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall realign the OECIF under the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Sustainment, with such realignment to include 
        personnel positions adequate for the mission of the OECIF.
            (2) Better coordination with related programs.--The 
        Assistant Secretary shall ensure that the placement under the 
        authority of the Assistant Secretary of the OECIF along with 
        the Strategic Environmental Research Program, the Environmental 
        Security Technology Certification Program, and the Operational 
        Energy Prototyping Program is utilized to advance common goals 
        of the Department, promote organizational synergies, and avoid 
        unnecessary duplication of effort.
    (c) Program for Operational Energy Prototyping.--
            (1) In general.--Commencing not later than 90 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Defense, through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Sustainment, shall carry out a program for the demonstration of 
        technologies related to operational energy prototyping, 
        including demonstration of operational energy technology and 
        validation prototyping.
            (2) Operation of program.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
        the program under paragraph (1) operates in conjunction with 
        the OECIF to promote the transfer of innovative technologies 
        that have successfully established proof of concept for use in 
        production or in the field.
            (3) Program elements.--In carrying out the program under 
        paragraph (1) the Secretary shall--
                    (A) identify and demonstrate the most promising, 
                innovative, and cost-effective technologies and methods 
                that address high-priority operational energy 
                requirements of the Department of Defense;
                    (B) in conducting demonstrations under subparagraph 
                (A), the Secretary shall--
                            (i) collect cost and performance data to 
                        overcome barriers against employing an 
                        innovative technology because of concerns 
                        regarding technical or programmatic risk; and
                            (ii) ensure that components of the 
                        Department have time to establish new 
                        requirements where necessary and plan, program, 
                        and budget for technology transition to 
                        programs of record;
                    (C) utilize project structures similar to those of 
                the OECIF to ensure transparency and accountability 
                throughout the efforts conducted under the program; and
                    (D) give priority, in conjunction with the OECIF, 
                to the development and fielding of clean technologies 
                that reduce reliance on fossil fuels.
            (4) Tool for accountability and transition.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out the program under 
                paragraph (1) the Secretary shall develop and utilize a 
                tool to track relevant investments in operational 
                energy from applied research to transition to use to 
                ensure user organizations have the full picture of 
                technology maturation and development.
                    (B) Transition.--The tool developed and utilized 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be designed to overcome 
                transition challenges with rigorous and well-documented 
                demonstrations that provide the information needed by 
                all stakeholders for acceptance of the technology.
            (5) Locations.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the 
                testing and evaluation phase of the program under 
                paragraph (1) at installations of the Department of 
                Defense or in conjunction with exercises conducted by 
                the Joint Staff, a combatant command, or a military 
                department.
                    (B) Formal demonstrations.--The Secretary shall 
                carry out any formal demonstrations under the program 
                under paragraph (1) at installations of the Department 
                or in operational settings to document and validate 
                improved warfighting performance and cost savings.

SEC. 377. COMMISSION ON THE NAMING OF ITEMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE THAT COMMEMORATE THE CONFEDERATE STATES OF 
              AMERICA OR ANY PERSON WHO SERVED VOLUNTARILY WITH THE 
              CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA.

    (a) Removal.--Not later than three years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the 
plan submitted by the commission described in paragraph (b) and remove 
all names, symbols, displays, monuments, and paraphernalia that honor 
or commemorate the Confederate States of America (commonly referred to 
as the ``Confederacy'') or any person who served voluntarily with the 
Confederate States of America from all assets of the Department of 
Defense.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
commission relating to assigning, modifying, or removing of names, 
symbols, displays, monuments, and paraphernalia to assets of the 
Department of Defense that commemorate the Confederate States of 
America or any person who served voluntarily with the Confederate 
States of America.
    (c) Duties.--The Commission shall--
            (1) assess the cost of renaming or removing names, symbols, 
        displays, monuments, or paraphernalia that commemorate the 
        Confederate States of America or any person who served 
        voluntarily with the Confederate States of America;
            (2) develop procedures and criteria to assess whether an 
        existing name, symbol, monument, display, or paraphernalia 
        commemorates the Confederate States of America or person who 
        served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America;
            (3) recommend procedures for renaming assets of the 
        Department of Defense to prevent commemoration of the 
        Confederate States of America or any person who served 
        voluntarily with the Confederate States of America;
            (4) develop a plan to remove names, symbols, displays, 
        monuments, or paraphernalia that commemorate the Confederate 
        States of America or any person who served voluntarily with the 
        Confederate States of America from assets of the Department of 
        Defense, within the timeline established by this Act; and
            (5) include in the plan procedures and criteria for 
        collecting and incorporating local sensitivities associated 
        with naming or renaming of assets of the Department of Defense.
    (d) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of eight members, 
of whom--
            (1) four shall be appointed by the Secretary of Defense;
            (2) one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (3) one shall be appointed by the Ranking Member of the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (4) one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
            (5) one shall be appointed by the Ranking Member of the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
    (e) Appointment.--Members of the Commission shall be appointed not 
later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Initial Meeting.--The Commission shall hold its initial meeting 
on the date that is 60 days after the enactment of this Act.
    (g) Briefings and Reports.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the 
Commission shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and House of Representatives detailing the progress of the requirements 
under subsection (c). Not later than October 1, 2022, and not later 
than 90 days before the implementation of the plan in subsection 
(c)(4), the Commission shall present a briefing and written report 
detailing the results of the requirements under subsection (c), 
including:
            (1) A list of assets to be removed or renamed.
            (2) Costs associated with the removal or renaming of assets 
        in subsection (g)(1).
            (3) Criteria and requirements used to nominate and rename 
        assets in subsection (g)(1).
            (4) Methods of collecting and incorporating local 
        sensitivities associated with the removal or renaming of assets 
        in subsection (g)(1).
    (h) Funding.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated $2,000,000 to carry out this section.
            (2) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated by 
        the Act for fiscal year 2021 for Operations and Maintenance, 
        Army, sub activity group 434 - other personnel support is 
        hereby reduced by $2,000,000.
    (i) Assets Defined.--In this section, the term ``assets'' includes 
any base, installation, street, building, facility, aircraft, ship, 
plane, weapon, equipment, or any other property owned or controlled by 
the Department of Defense.
    (j) Exemption for Grave Markers.--Shall not cover monuments but 
shall exempt grave markers. Congress expects the commission to further 
define what constitutes a grave marker.

SEC. 378. MODIFICATIONS TO REVIEW OF PROPOSED ACTIONS BY MILITARY 
              AVIATION AND INSTALLATION ASSURANCE CLEARINGHOUSE.

    Section 183a(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``If the Clearinghouse'' and inserting 
        ``(A) If the Clearinghouse''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(B) After the Clearinghouse issues a notice under 
        subparagraph (A) with respect to an energy project, the parties 
        should seek to identify feasible and affordable actions that 
        can be taken by the Department, the developer of such energy 
        project, or others to mitigate any adverse impact on military 
        operations and readiness.
            ``(C) If the Secretary determines within a reasonable 
        period of time after the issuance of a notice under 
        subparagraph (A) with respect to an energy project that the 
        concerns identified in the preliminary review conducted under 
        paragraph (1) with respect to such project have been mitigated 
        to the extent that such project does not pose an unacceptable 
        level of risk to military operations and readiness, the 
        Clearinghouse shall timely issue a mission compatibility letter 
        to the applicant of such project, the governor of the State in 
        which such project is located, and the Secretary of the finding 
        of the Clearinghouse.''.

SEC. 379. ADJUSTMENT IN AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR UNUSUAL COST 
              OVERRUNS AND FOR CHANGES IN SCOPE OF WORK.

    Section 8683 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Treatment of Amounts Appropriated After End of Period of 
Obligation.--In the application of section 1553(c) of title 31 to funds 
appropriated in the Operation and Maintenance, Navy account that are 
available for ship overhaul, the Secretary of the Navy--
            ``(1) may treat the limitation specified in paragraph (1) 
        of such section to be `$10,000,000' rather than `$4,000,000'; 
        and
            ``(2) may treat the limitation specified in paragraph (2) 
        of such section to be `$30,000,000' rather than 
        `$25,000,000'.''.

SEC. 380. REQUIREMENT THAT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE IMPLEMENT SECURITY AND 
              EMERGENCY RESPONSE RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO ACTIVE 
              SHOOTER OR TERRORIST ATTACKS ON INSTALLATIONS OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Requirement.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall implement the 
applicable security and emergency response recommendations relating to 
active shooter or terrorist attacks on installations of the Department 
of Defense made in the following reports:
            (1) The report by the Government Accountability Office 
        dated July 2015 entitled, ``Insider Threats: DOD Should Improve 
        Information Sharing and Oversight to Protect U.S. 
        Installations'' (GAO-15-543).
            (2) The report prepared by the Department of the Navy 
        relating to the Washington Navy Yard shooting in 2013.
            (3) The report by the Department of the Army dated August 
        2010 entitled ``Fort Hood, Army Internal Review Team: Final 
        Report''.
            (4) The independent review by the Department of Defense 
        dated January 2010 entitled ``Protecting the Force: Lessons 
        from Fort Hood''.
            (5) The report by the Department of the Air Force dated 
        October 2010 entitled ``Air Force Follow-On Review: Protecting 
        the Force: Lessons from Fort Hood''.
    (b) Notification of Inapplicable Recommendations.--
            (1) In general.--If the Secretary determines that a 
        recommendation described in subsection (a) is outdated, is no 
        longer applicable, or has been superseded by more recent 
        separate guidance or recommendations set forth by the 
        Government Accountability Office, the Department of Defense, or 
        another entity in related contracted review, the Secretary 
        shall notify the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives not later than 45 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Identification and justification.--The notification 
        under paragraph (1) shall include an identification, set forth 
        by report specified in subsection (a), of each recommendation 
        that the Secretary determines should not be implemented, with a 
        justification for each such determination.

SEC. 381. CLARIFICATION OF FOOD INGREDIENT REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD OR 
              BEVERAGES PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Before making any final rule, statement, or 
determination regarding the limitation or prohibition of any food or 
beverage ingredient in military food service, military medical foods, 
commissary food, or commissary food service, the Secretary of Defense 
shall publish in the Federal Register a notice of a preliminary rule, 
statement, or determination (in this section referred to as a 
``proposed action'') and provide opportunity for public comment.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The Secretary shall include in any 
notice published under subsection (a) the following:
            (1) The date of the notice.
            (2) Contact information for the appropriate office at the 
        Department of Defense.
            (3) A summary of the notice.
            (4) A date for comments to be submitted and specific 
        methods for submitting comments.
            (5) A description of the substance of the proposed action.
            (6) Findings and a statement of reasons supporting the 
        proposed action.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.

    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2021, as follows:
            (1) The Army, 485,000.
            (2) The Navy, 346,730.
            (3) The Marine Corps, 180,000.
            (4) The Air Force, 333,475.

SEC. 402. END STRENGTH LEVEL MATTERS.

    (a) Strength Levels to Support Two Major Regional Contingencies.--
            (1) In general.--Section 691 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 39 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 691.
    (b) Certain Active-duty and Selected Reserve Strengths.--Section 
115 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``increase'' and 
        inserting ``vary''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)(1)(A), by striking ``increase'' and 
        inserting ``vary''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2021, as follows:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 336,500.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 189,800.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 58,800.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 108,100.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 70,300.
            (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
            (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to 
        serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which 
        are on active duty (other than for training) at the end of the 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
        organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
        component who are on active duty (other than for training or 
        for unsatisfactory participation in training) without their 
        consent at the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.

SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF THE 
              RESERVES.

    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2021, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,595.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 16,511.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 10,215.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,386.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 25,333.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 5,256.

SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).

    (a) In General.--The authorized number of military technicians 
(dual status) as of the last day of fiscal year 2021 for the reserve 
components of the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 
of title 10, United States Code) shall be the following:
            (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        22,294.
            (2) For the Army Reserve, 6,492.
            (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 
        10,994.
            (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 7,947.
    (b) Limitation.--Under no circumstances may a military technician 
(dual status) employed under the authority of this section be coerced 
by a State into accepting an offer of realignment or conversion to any 
other military status, including as a member of the Active, Guard, and 
Reserve program of a reserve component. If a military technician (dual 
status) declines to participate in such realignment or conversion, no 
further action will be taken against the individual or the individual's 
position.

SEC. 414. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.

    During fiscal year 2021, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
            (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
            (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
            (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
            (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
            (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
            (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

SEC. 415. SEPARATE AUTHORIZATION BY CONGRESS OF MINIMUM END STRENGTHS 
              FOR NON-TEMPORARY MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS) AND 
              MAXIMUM END STRENGTHS FOR TEMPORARY MILITARY TECHNICIANS 
              (DUAL STATUS).

    (a) In General.--Section 115(d) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``the end strength 
        for military technicians (dual status)'' and inserting ``both 
        the minimum end strength for non-temporary military technicians 
        (dual status) and the maximum end strength for temporary 
        military technicians (dual status)''; and
            (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``the end strength 
        requested for military technicians (dual status)'' and 
        inserting ``the minimum end strength for non-temporary military 
        technicians (dual status), and the maximum end strength for 
        temporary military technicians (dual status), requested''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the day after the date of the enactment of this Act. The 
amendment made by subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to budgets 
submitted by the President to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, after such effective date.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2021.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

SEC. 501. REPEAL OF CODIFIED SPECIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS OF 
              CERTAIN COMMISSIONED OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY.

    Effective as of October 1, 2021, the text of section 523 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``The total number of commissioned officers serving on active duty 
in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps in each of the grades of major, 
lieutenant colonel, or colonel, or in the Navy in each of the grades of 
lieutenant commander, commander, or captain, at the end of any fiscal 
year shall be as specifically authorized by Act of Congress for such 
fiscal year.''.

SEC. 502. TEMPORARY EXPANSION OF AVAILABILITY OF ENHANCED CONSTRUCTIVE 
              SERVICE CREDIT IN A PARTICULAR CAREER FIELD UPON ORIGINAL 
              APPOINTMENT AS A COMMISSIONED OFFICER.

    (a) Regular Officers.--Subparagraph (D) of section 533(b)(1) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(D) Additional credit as follows:
                    ``(i) For special training or experience in a 
                particular officer field as designated by the Secretary 
                concerned, if such training or experience is directly 
                related to the operational needs of the armed force 
                concerned.
                    ``(ii) During fiscal years 2021 through 2025, for 
                advanced education in an officer field so designated, 
                if such education is directly related to the 
                operational needs of the armed force concerned.''.
    (b) Reserve Officers.--Section 12207(b)(1) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), ``or a 
        designation in'' and all that follows through ``education or 
        training,'' and inserting ``and who has special training or 
        experience, or advanced education (if applicable),''; and
            (2) by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the 
        following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) Additional credit as follows:
                    ``(i) For special training or experience in a 
                particular officer field as designated by the Secretary 
                concerned, if such training or experience is directly 
                related to the operational needs of the armed force 
                concerned.
                    ``(ii) During fiscal years 2021 through 2025, for 
                advanced education in an officer field so designated, 
                if such education is directly related to the 
                operational needs of the armed force concerned.''.
    (c) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1, 2022, and every 
        four years thereafter, each Secretary of a military department 
        shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
        and the House of Representatives a report on the use of the 
        authorities in subparagraph (D) of section 553(b)(1) of title 
        10, United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), and 
        subparagraph (D) of section 12207(b)(1) of such title (as 
        amended by subsection (b)) (each referred to in this subsection 
        as a ``constructive credit authority'') during the preceding 
        fiscal year for the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such 
        Secretary.
            (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, for the fiscal year and Armed Forces covered by such 
        report, the following:
                    (A) The manner in which constructive service credit 
                was calculated under each constructive credit 
                authority.
                    (B) The number of officers credited constructive 
                service credit under each constructive credit 
                authority.
                    (C) A description and assessment of the utility of 
                the constructive credit authorities in meeting the 
                operational needs of the Armed Force concerned.
                    (D) Such other matters in connection with the 
                constructive credit authorities as the Secretary of the 
                military department concerned considers appropriate.

SEC. 503. REQUIREMENT FOR PROMOTION SELECTION BOARD RECOMMENDATION OF 
              HIGHER PLACEMENT ON PROMOTION LIST OF OFFICERS OF 
              PARTICULAR MERIT.

    (a) In General.--Section 616(g) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting ``, pursuant to guidelines and 
                procedures prescribed by the Secretary,'' after 
                ``officers of particular merit''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, pursuant to 
        guidelines and procedures prescribed by the Secretary 
        concerned,'' after ``shall recommend''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to officers recommended for promotion by promotion 
selection boards convened on or after that date.

SEC. 504. SPECIAL SELECTION REVIEW BOARDS FOR REVIEW OF PROMOTION OF 
              OFFICERS SUBJECT TO ADVERSE INFORMATION IDENTIFIED AFTER 
              RECOMMENDATION FOR PROMOTION AND RELATED MATTERS.

    (a) Regular Officers.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter III of chapter 36 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 628 
        the following new section:
``Sec. 628a. Special selection review boards
    ``(a) In General.--(1) If the Secretary of the military department 
concerned determines that a person recommended by a promotion board for 
promotion to a grade at or below the grade of major general, rear 
admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force is the 
subject of credible information of an adverse nature, including any 
substantiated adverse finding or conclusion described in section 
615(a)(3)(A) of this title, that was not furnished to the promotion 
board during its consideration of the person for promotion as otherwise 
required by such section, the Secretary shall convene a special 
selection review board under this section to review the person and 
recommend whether the recommendation for promotion of the person should 
be sustained.
    ``(2) If a person and the recommendation for promotion of the 
person is subject to review under this section by a special selection 
review board convened under this section, the name of the person--
            ``(A) shall not be disseminated or publicly released on the 
        list of officers recommended for promotion by the promotion 
        board recommending the promotion of the person; and
            ``(B) shall not be forwarded to the Secretary of Defense, 
        the President, or the Senate, as applicable, or included on a 
        promotion list under section 624(a) of this title.
    ``(b) Convening.--(1) Any special selection review board convened 
under this section shall be convened in accordance with the provisions 
of section 628(f) of this title.
    ``(2) Any special selection review board convened under this 
section may review such number of persons, and recommendations for 
promotion of such persons, as the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall specify in convening such special selection review 
board.
    ``(c) Information Considered.--(1) In reviewing a person and 
recommending whether the recommendation for promotion of the person 
should be sustained under this section, a special selection review 
board convened under this section shall be furnished and consider the 
following:
            ``(A) The record and information concerning the person 
        furnished in accordance with section 615(a)(2) of this title to 
        the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
            ``(B) Any credible information of an adverse nature on the 
        person, including any substantiated adverse finding or 
        conclusion from an officially documented investigation or 
        inquiry described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this title.
    ``(2) The furnishing of information to a special selection review 
board under paragraph (1)(B) shall be governed by the standards and 
procedures referred to in paragraph (3)(C) of section 615(a) of this 
title applicable to the furnishing of information described in 
paragraph (3)(A) of such section to selection boards in accordance with 
that section.
    ``(3)(A) Before information on a person described in paragraph 
(1)(B) is furnished to a special selection review board for purposes of 
this section, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall 
ensure that--
            ``(i) such information is made available to the person; and
            ``(ii) subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), the person is 
        afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit comments on such 
        information to the special selection review board before its 
        review of the person and the recommendation for promotion of 
        the person under this section.
    ``(B) If information on a person described in paragraph (1)(B) is 
not made available to the person as otherwise required by subparagraph 
(A)(i) due to the classification status of such information, the person 
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be furnished a summary of 
such information appropriate to the person's authorization for access 
to classified information.
    ``(C)(i) An opportunity to submit comments on information is not 
required for a person under subparagraph (A)(ii) if--
            ``(I) such information was made available to the person in 
        connection with the furnishing of such information under 
        section 615(a) of this title to the promotion board that 
        recommended the promotion of the person subject to review under 
        this section; and
            ``(II) the person submitted comments on such information to 
        that promotion board.
    ``(ii) The comments on information of a person described in clause 
(i)(II) shall be furnished to the special selection review board.
    ``(D) A person may waive either or both of the following:
            ``(i) The right to submit comments to a special selection 
        review board under subparagraph (A)(ii).
            ``(ii) The furnishing of comments to a special selection 
        review board under subparagraph (C)(ii).
    ``(d) Consideration.--(1) In considering the record and information 
on a person under this section, the special selection review board 
shall compare such record and information with an appropriate sampling 
of the records of those officers of the same competitive category who 
were recommended for promotion by the promotion board that recommended 
the person for promotion, and an appropriate sampling of the records of 
those officers who were considered by and not recommended for promotion 
by that promotion board.
    ``(2) Records and information shall be presented to a special 
selection review board for purposes of paragraph (1) in a manner that 
does not indicate or disclose the person or persons for whom the 
special selection review board was convened.
    ``(3) In considering whether the recommendation for promotion of a 
person should be sustained under this section, a special selection 
review board shall, to the greatest extent practicable, apply standards 
used by the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
    ``(4) The recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained 
under this section only if the special selection review board 
determines that the person--
            ``(A) ranks on an order of merit created by the special 
        selection review board as better qualified for promotion than 
        the sample officer highest on the order of merit list who was 
        considered by and not recommended for promotion by the 
        promotion board concerned; and
            ``(B) is comparable in qualification for promotion to those 
        sample officers who were recommended for promotion by that 
        promotion board.
    ``(5) A recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained 
under this section only by a vote of a majority of the members of the 
special selection review board.
    ``(6) If a special selection review board does not sustain a 
recommendation for promotion of a person under this section, the person 
shall be considered to have failed of selection for promotion.
    ``(e) Reports.--(1) Each special selection review board convened 
under this section shall submit to the Secretary of the military 
department concerned a written report, signed by each member of the 
board, containing the name of each person whose recommendation for 
promotion it recommends for sustainment and certifying that the board 
has carefully considered the record and information of each person 
whose name was referred to it.
    ``(2) The provisions of sections 617(b) and 618 of this title apply 
to the report and proceedings of a special selection review board 
convened under this section in the same manner as they apply to the 
report and proceedings of a promotion board convened under section 
611(a) of this title.
    ``(f) Appointment of Persons.--(1) If the report of a special 
selection review board convened under this section recommends the 
sustainment of the recommendation for promotion to the next higher 
grade of a person whose name was referred to it for review under this 
section, and the President approves the report, the person shall, as 
soon as practicable, be appointed to that grade in accordance with 
subsections (b) and (c) of section 624 of this title.
    ``(2) A person who is appointed to the next higher grade as 
described in paragraph (1) shall, upon that appointment, have the same 
date of rank, the same effective date for the pay and allowances of 
that grade, and the same position on the active-duty list as the person 
would have had pursuant to the original recommendation for promotion of 
the promotion board concerned.
    ``(g) Regulations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section. Such regulations shall apply 
uniformly across the military departments.
    ``(2) Any regulation prescribed by the Secretary of a military 
department to supplement the regulations prescribed pursuant to 
paragraph (1) may not take effect without the approval of the Secretary 
of Defense, in writing.
    ``(h) Promotion Board Defined.--In this section, the term 
`promotion board 'means a selection board convened by the Secretary of 
a military department under section 611(a) of this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter III of chapter 36 of such title is 
        amended by inserting after the item relating to section 628 the 
        following new item:

``628a. Special selection review boards.''.
            (3) Delay in promotion.--Section 624(d) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``or'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (E) 
                        the following new subparagraph (F):
            ``(F) the Secretary of the military department concerned 
        determines that credible information of an adverse nature, 
        including a substantiated adverse finding or conclusion 
        described in section 615(a)(3)(A) of this title, with respect 
        to the officer will result in the convening of a special 
        selection review board under section 628a of this title to 
        review the officer and recommend whether the recommendation for 
        promotion of the officer should be sustained.'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
    ``(3) In the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant 
to paragraph (1)(F) and whose recommendation for promotion is 
sustained, authorities for the promotion of the officer are specified 
in section 628a(f) of this title.''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by striking ``The appointment'' and 
                        inserting ``(A) Except as provided in 
                        subparagraph (B), the appointment''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
    ``(B) In the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant 
to paragraph (1)(F), requirements applicable to notice and opportunity 
for response to such delay are specified in section 628a(c)(3) of this 
title.''.
    (b) Reserve Officers.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 1407 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 14502 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 14502a. Special selection review boards
    ``(a) In General.--(1) If the Secretary of the military department 
concerned determines that a person recommended by a promotion board for 
promotion to a grade at or below the grade of major general or rear 
admiral in the Navy is the subject of credible information of an 
adverse nature, including any substantiated adverse finding or 
conclusion described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title, that was 
not furnished to the promotion board during its consideration of the 
person for promotion as otherwise required by such section, the 
Secretary shall convene a special selection review board under this 
section to review the person and recommend whether the recommendation 
for promotion of the person should be sustained.
    ``(2) If a person and the recommendation for promotion of the 
person is subject to review under this section by a special selection 
review board convened under this section, the name of the person--
            ``(A) shall not be disseminated or publicly released on the 
        list of officers recommended for promotion by the promotion 
        board recommending the promotion of the person; and
            ``(B) shall not be forwarded to the Secretary of Defense, 
        the President, or the Senate, as applicable, or included on a 
        promotion list under section 14308(a) of this title.
    ``(b) Convening.--(1) Any special selection review board convened 
under this section shall be convened in accordance with the provisions 
of section 14502(b)(2) of this title.
    ``(2) Any special selection review board convened under this 
section may review such number of persons, and recommendations for 
promotion of such persons, as the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall specify in convening such special selection review 
board.
    ``(c) Information Considered.--(1) In reviewing a person and 
recommending whether the recommendation for promotion of the person 
should be sustained under this section, a special selection review 
board convened under this section shall be furnished and consider the 
following:
            ``(A) The record and information concerning the person 
        furnished in accordance with section 14107(a)(2) of this title 
        to the promotion board that recommended the person for 
        promotion.
            ``(B) Any credible information of an adverse nature on the 
        person, including any substantiated adverse finding or 
        conclusion from an officially documented investigation or 
        inquiry described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title.
    ``(2) The furnishing of information to a special selection review 
board under paragraph (1)(B) shall be governed by the standards and 
procedures referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of section 14107(a) of this 
title applicable to the furnishing of information described in 
paragraph (3)(A) of such section to promotion boards in accordance with 
that section.
    ``(3)(A) Before information on person described in paragraph (1)(B) 
is furnished to a special selection review board for purposes of this 
section, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall 
ensure that--
            ``(i) such information is made available to the person; and
            ``(ii) subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), the person is 
        afforded a reasonable opportunity to submit comments on such 
        information to the special selection review board before its 
        review of the person and the recommendation for promotion of 
        the person under this section.
    ``(B) If information on an officer described in paragraph (1)(B) is 
not made available to the person as otherwise required by subparagraph 
(A)(i) due to the classification status of such information, the person 
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be furnished a summary of 
such information appropriate to the person's authorization for access 
to classified information.
    ``(C)(i) An opportunity to submit comments on information is not 
required for a person under subparagraph (A)(ii) if--
            ``(I) such information was made available to the person in 
        connection with the furnishing of such information under 
        section 14107(a) of this title to the promotion board that 
        recommended the promotion of the person subject to review under 
        this section; and
            ``(II) the person submitted comments on such information to 
        that promotion board.
    ``(ii) The comments on information of a person described in clause 
(i)(II) shall be furnished to the special selection review board.
    ``(D) A person may waive either or both of the following:
            ``(i) The right to submit comments to a special selection 
        review board under subparagraph (A)(ii).
            ``(ii) The furnishing of comments to a special selection 
        review board under subparagraph (C)(ii).
    ``(d) Consideration.--(1) In considering the record and information 
on a person under this section, the special selection review board 
shall compare such record and information with an appropriate sampling 
of the records of those officers of the same competitive category who 
were recommended for promotion by the promotion board that recommended 
the person for promotion, and an appropriate sampling of the records of 
those officers who were considered by and not recommended for promotion 
by that promotion board.
    ``(2) Records and information shall be presented to a special 
selection review board for purposes of paragraph (1) in a manner that 
does not indicate or disclose the person or persons for whom the 
special selection review board was convened.
    ``(3) In considering whether the recommendation for promotion of a 
person should be sustained under this section, a special selection 
review board shall, to the greatest extent practicable, apply standards 
used by the promotion board that recommended the person for promotion.
    ``(4) The recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained 
under this section only if the special selection review board 
determines that the person--
            ``(A) ranks on an order of merit created by the special 
        selection review board as better qualified for promotion than 
        the sample officer highest on the order of merit list who was 
        considered by and not recommended for promotion by the 
        promotion board concerned; and
            ``(B) is comparable in qualification for promotion to those 
        sample officers who were recommended for promotion by that 
        promotion board.
    ``(5) A recommendation for promotion of a person may be sustained 
under this section only by a vote of a majority of the members of the 
special selection review board.
    ``(6) If a special selection review board does not sustain a 
recommendation for promotion of a person under this section, the person 
shall be considered to have failed of selection for promotion.
    ``(e) Reports.--(1) Each special selection review board convened 
under this section shall submit to the Secretary of the military 
department concerned a written report, signed by each member of the 
board, containing the name of each person whose recommendation for 
promotion it recommends for sustainment and certifying that the board 
has carefully considered the record and information of each person 
whose name was referred to it.
    ``(2) The provisions of sections 14109(c), 14110, and 14111 of this 
title apply to the report and proceedings of a special selection review 
board convened under this section in the same manner as they apply to 
the report and proceedings of a promotion board convened under section 
14101(a) of this title.
    ``(f) Appointment of Persons.--(1) If the report of a special 
selection review board convened under this section recommends the 
sustainment of the recommendation for promotion to the next higher 
grade of a person whose name was referred to it for review under this 
section, and the President approves the report, the person shall, as 
soon as practicable, be appointed to that grade in accordance with 
section 14308 of this title.
    ``(2) A person who is appointed to the next higher grade as 
described in paragraph (1) shall, upon that appointment, have the same 
date of rank, the same effective date for the pay and allowances of 
that grade, and the same position on the reserve active-status list as 
the person would have had pursuant to the original recommendation for 
promotion of the promotion board concerned.
    ``(g) Regulations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section. Such regulations shall apply 
uniformly across the military departments.
    ``(2) Any regulation prescribed by the Secretary of a military 
department to supplement the regulations prescribed pursuant to 
paragraph (1) may not take effect without the approval of the Secretary 
of Defense, in writing.
    ``(h) Promotion Board Defined.--In this section, the term 
`promotion board 'means a selection board convened by the Secretary of 
a military department under section 14101(a) of this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 1407 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 14502 the following new 
        item:

``14502a. Special selection review boards.''.
            (3) Delay in promotion.--Section 14311 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end 
                        the following new subparagraph:
            ``(F) The Secretary of the military department concerned 
        determines that credible information of adverse nature, 
        including a substantiated adverse finding or conclusion 
        described in section 14107(a)(3)(A) of this title, with respect 
        to the officer will result in the convening of a special 
        selection review board under section 14502a of this title to 
        review the officer and recommend whether the recommendation for 
        promotion of the officer should be sustained.''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        paragraph:
    ``(2) In the case of an officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant 
to paragraph (1)(F) and whose recommendation for promotion is 
sustained, authorities for the promotion of the officer are specified 
in section 14502a(f) of this title.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the 
                following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), in the case of an 
officer whose promotion is delayed pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(F), 
requirements applicable to notice and opportunity for response to such 
delay are specified in section 14502a(c)(3) of this title.''.
    (c) Requirements for Furnishing Adverse Information on Regular 
Officers to Promotion Selection Boards.--
            (1) Extension of requirements to space force regular 
        officers.--Subparagraph (B)(i) of section 615(a)(3) of title 
        10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or, in the 
        case of the Navy, lieutenant'' and inserting ``, in the case of 
        the Navy, lieutenant, or in the case of the Space Force, the 
        equivalent grade''.
            (2) Satisfaction of requirements through special selection 
        review boards.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
        the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(D) With respect to the consideration of an officer for promotion 
to a grade at or below major general, in the case of the Navy, rear 
admiral, or, in the case of the Space Force, the equivalent grade, the 
requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (C) may be met through the 
convening and actions of a special selection review board with respect 
to the officer under section 628a of this title.''.
            (3) Delayed applicability of requirements to boards for 
        promotion of officers to non-general and flag officer grades.--
        Subsection (c) of section 502 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is 
        amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Effective Date and Applicability.--
            ``(1) Effective date.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall take effect on December 20, 2019, and shall, except as 
        provided in paragraph (2), apply with respect to the 
        proceedings of promotion selection boards convened under 
        section 611(a) of title 10, United States Code, after that 
        date.
            ``(2) Delayed applicability for boards for promotion to 
        non-general and flag officer grades.--The amendments made this 
        section shall apply with respect to the proceedings of 
        promotion selection boards convened under section 611(a) of 
        title 10, United States Code, for consideration of officers for 
        promotion to a grade below the grade of brigadier general or, 
        in the case of the Navy, rear admiral (lower half), only if 
        such boards are so convened after January 1, 2021.''.
    (d) Requirements for Furnishing Adverse Information on Reserve 
Officers to Promotion Selection Boards.--Section 14107(a)(3) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``colonel, or, in the case of the Navy, captain'' and 
        inserting ``lieutenant colonel, or, in the case of the Navy, 
        commander''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs
    ``(B) The standards and procedures referred to in subparagraph (A) 
shall require the furnishing to the selection board, and to each 
individual member of the board, the information described in that 
subparagraph with regard to an officer in a grade specified in that 
subparagraph at each stage or phase of the selection board, concurrent 
with the screening, rating, assessment, evaluation, discussion, or 
other consideration by the board or member of the official military 
personnel file of the officer, or of the officer.
    ``(C) With respect to the consideration of an officer for promotion 
to a grade at or below major general or, in the Navy, rear admiral, the 
requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) may be met through the 
convening and actions of a special selection board with respect to the 
officer under section 14502a of this title.''.

SEC. 505. NUMBER OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR CONSIDERATION FOR PROMOTION UNDER 
              ALTERNATIVE PROMOTION AUTHORITY.

    Section 649c of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Inapplicability of Requirement Relating to Opportunities for 
Consideration for Promotion.--Section 645(1)(A)(i)(I) of this title 
shall not apply to the promotion of officers described in subsection 
(a) to the extent that such section is inconsistent with a number of 
opportunities for promotion specified pursuant to section 649d of this 
title.''.

SEC. 506. MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR AGE.

    (a) General Rule.--Subsection (a) of section 1251 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``or Marine 
        Corps,''; and
            (2) by inserting ``or separated, as specified in subsection 
        (e),'' after ``shall be retired''.
    (b) Deferred Retirement or Separation of Health Professions 
Officers.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or 
        Separation'' after ``Retirement''; and
            (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or separation'' after 
        ``retirement''.
    (c) Deferred Retirement or Separation of Other Officers.--
Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``of Chaplains'' 
        and inserting ``or Separation of Other Officers'';
            (2) by inserting ``or separation'' after ``retirement''; 
        and
            (3) by striking ``an officer who is appointed or designated 
        as a chaplain'' and inserting ``any officer other than a health 
        professions officer described in subsection (b)(2)''.
    (d) Retirement or Separation Based on Years of Creditable 
Service.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(e) Retirement or Separation Based on Years of Creditable 
Service.--The following rules shall apply to a regular commissioned 
officer who is to be retired or separated under subsection (a):
            ``(1) If the officer has at least 6 but fewer than 20 years 
        of creditable service, the officer shall be separated, with 
        separation pay computed under section 1174(d)(1) of this title.
            ``(2) If the officer has fewer than 6 years of creditable 
        service, the officer shall be separated under subsection 
        (a).''.

SEC. 507. CLARIFYING AND IMPROVING RESTATEMENT OF RULES ON THE RETIRED 
              GRADE OF COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.

    (a) Restatement.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 69 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking section 1370 and inserting the 
        following new sections:
``Sec. 1370. Regular commissioned officers
    ``(a) Retirement in Highest Grade in Which Served Satisfactorily.--
            ``(1) In general.--Unless entitled to a different retired 
        grade under some other provision of law, a commissioned officer 
        (other than a commissioned warrant officer) of the Army, Navy, 
        Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force who retires under any 
        provision of law other than chapter 61 or 1223 of this title 
        shall be retired in the highest permanent grade in which such 
        officer is determined to have served on active duty 
        satisfactorily.
            ``(2) Determination of satisfactory service.--The 
        determination of satisfactory service of an officer in a grade 
        under paragraph (1) shall be made as follows:
                    ``(A) By the Secretary of the military department 
                concerned, if the officer is serving in a grade at or 
                below the grade of major general, rear admiral in the 
                Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force.
                    ``(B) By the Secretary of Defense, if the officer 
                is serving or has served in a grade above the grade of 
                major general, rear admiral in the Navy, or the 
                equivalent grade in the Space Force.
            ``(3) Effect of misconduct in lower grade in 
        determination.--If the Secretary of a military department or 
        the Secretary of Defense, as applicable, determines that an 
        officer committed misconduct in a lower grade than the 
        retirement grade otherwise provided for the officer by this 
        section--
                    ``(A) such Secretary may deem the officer to have 
                not served satisfactorily in any grade equal to or 
                higher than such lower grade for purposes of 
                determining the retirement grade of the officer under 
                this section; and
                    ``(B) the grade next lower to such lower grade 
                shall be the retired grade of the officer under this 
                section.
            ``(4) Nature of retirement of certain reserve officers and 
        officers in temporary grades.--A reserve officer, or an officer 
        appointed to a position under section 601 of this title, who is 
        notified that the officer will be released from active duty 
        without the officer's consent and thereafter requests 
        retirement under section 7311, 8323, or 9311 of this title and 
        is retired pursuant to that request is considered for purposes 
        of this section to have been retired involuntarily.
            ``(5) Nature of retirement of certain removed officers.--An 
        officer retired pursuant to section 1186(b)(1) of this title is 
        considered for purposes of this section to have been retired 
        voluntarily.
    ``(b) Retirement of Officers Retiring Voluntarily.--
            ``(1) Service-in-grade requirement.--In order to be 
        eligible for voluntary retirement under any provision of this 
        title in a grade above the grade of captain in the Army, Air 
        Force, or Marine Corps, lieutenant in the Navy, or the 
        equivalent grade in the Space Force, a commissioned officer of 
        the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space Force must 
        have served on active duty in that grade for a period of not 
        less than three years, except that--
                    ``(A) subject to subsection (c), the Secretary of 
                Defense may reduce such period to a period of not less 
                than two years for any officer; and
                    ``(B) in the case of an officer to be retired in a 
                grade at or below the grade of major general in the 
                Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the 
                Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, the 
                Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of the 
                military department concerned to reduce such period to 
                a period of not less than two years.
            ``(2) Limitation on delegation.--The authority of the 
        Secretary of Defense in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) may 
        not be delegated. The authority of the Secretary of a military 
        department in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1), as delegated 
        to such Secretary pursuant to such subparagraph, may not be 
        further delegated.
            ``(3) Waiver of requirement.--Subject to subsection (c), 
        the President may waive the application of the service-in-grade 
        requirement in paragraph (1) to officers covered by that 
        paragraph in individual cases involving extreme hardship or 
        exceptional or unusual circumstances. The authority of the 
        President under this paragraph may not be delegated.
            ``(4) Limitation on reduction or waiver of requirement for 
        officers under investigation or pending misconduct.--In the 
        case of an officer to be retired in a grade above the grade of 
        colonel in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, captain in the 
        Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, the service-
        in-grade requirement in paragraph (1) may not be reduced 
        pursuant to that paragraph, or waived pursuant to paragraph 
        (3), while the officer is under investigation for alleged 
        misconduct or while there is pending the disposition of an 
        adverse personnel action against the officer.
            ``(5) Grade and fiscal year limitations on reduction or 
        waiver of requirements.--The aggregate number of members of an 
        armed force in a grade for whom reductions are made under 
        paragraph (1), and waivers are made under paragraph (3), in a 
        fiscal year may not exceed--
                    ``(A) in the case of officers to be retired in a 
                grade at or below the grade of major in the Army, Air 
                Force, or Marine Corps, lieutenant commander in the 
                Navy, or the equivalent grade in the Space Force, the 
                number equal to two percent of the authorized active-
                duty strength for that fiscal year for officers of that 
                armed force in that grade;
                    ``(B) in the case of officers to be retired in the 
                grade of lieutenant colonel or colonel in the Army, Air 
                Force, or Marine Corps, commander or captain in the 
                Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, the 
                number equal to four percent of the authorized active-
                duty strength for that fiscal year for officers of that 
                armed force in the applicable grade; or
                    ``(C) in the case of officers to be retired in the 
                grade of brigadier general or major general in the 
                Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral (lower 
                half) or rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent 
                grade in the Space Force, the number equal to 10 
                percent of the authorized active-duty strength for that 
                fiscal year for officers of that armed force in the 
                applicable grade.
            ``(6) Notice to congress on reduction or waiver of 
        requirements for general, flag, and equivalent officer 
        grades.--In the case of an officer to be retired in a grade 
        that is a general or flag officer grade, or an equivalent grade 
        in the Space Force, who is eligible to retire in that grade 
        only by reason of an exercise of the authority in paragraph (1) 
        to reduce the service-in-grade requirement in that paragraph, 
        or the authority in paragraph (3) to waive that requirement, 
        the Secretary of Defense or the President, as applicable, 
        shall, not later than 60 days prior to the date on which the 
        officer will be retired in that grade, notify the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        of the exercise of the applicable authority with respect to 
        that officer.
            ``(7) Retirement in next lowest grade for officers not 
        meeting requirement.--An officer described in paragraph (1) 
        whose length of service in the highest grade held by the 
        officer while on active duty does not meet the period of the 
        service-in-grade requirement applicable to the officer under 
        this subsection shall, subject to subsection (c), be retired in 
        the next lower grade in which the officer served on active duty 
        satisfactorily, as determined by the Secretary of the military 
        department concerned or the Secretary of Defense, as 
        applicable.
    ``(c) Officers in O-9 and O-10 Grades.--
            ``(1) In general.--An officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
        Marine Corps, or Space Force who is serving or has served in a 
        position of importance and responsibility designated by the 
        President to carry the grade of lieutenant general or general 
        in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice admiral or 
        admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force 
        under section 601 of this title may be retired in such grade 
        under subsection (a) only after the Secretary of Defense 
        certifies in writing to the President and the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        that the officer served on active duty satisfactorily in such 
        grade.
            ``(2) Prohibition on delegation.--The authority of the 
        Secretary of Defense to make a certification with respect to an 
        officer under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
            ``(3) Requirements in connection with certification.--A 
        certification with respect to an officer under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    ``(A) be submitted by the Secretary of Defense such 
                that it is received by the President and the Committees 
                on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
                Representatives not later than 60 days prior to the 
                date on which the officer will be retired in the grade 
                concerned;
                    ``(B) include an up-to-date copy of the military 
                biography of the officer; and
                    ``(C) include the statement of the Secretary as to 
                whether or not potentially adverse, adverse, or 
                reportable information regarding the officer was 
                considered by the Secretary in making the 
                certification.
            ``(4) Construction with other notice.--In the case of an 
        officer under paragraph (1) to whom a reduction in the service-
        in-grade requirement under subsection (b)(1) or waiver under 
        subsection (b)(3) applies, the requirement for notification 
        under subsection (b)(6) is satisfied if the notification is 
        included in the certification submitted by the Secretary of 
        Defense under paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Conditional Retirement Grade and Retirement for Officers 
Pending Investigation or Adverse Action.--
            ``(1) In general.--When an officer serving in a grade at or 
        below the grade of major general in the Army, Air Force, or 
        Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade 
        in the Space Force is under investigation for alleged 
        misconduct or pending the disposition of an adverse personnel 
        action at the time of retirement, the Secretary of the military 
        department concerned may--
                    ``(A) conditionally determine the highest permanent 
                grade of satisfactory service on active duty of the 
                officer pending completion of the investigation or 
                resolution of the personnel action, as applicable; and
                    ``(B) retire the officer in that conditional grade, 
                subject to subsection (e).
            ``(2) Officers in o-9 and o-10 grades.--When an officer 
        described by subsection (c)(1) is under investigation for 
        alleged misconduct or pending the disposition of an adverse 
        personnel action at the time of retirement, the Secretary of 
        Defense may--
                    ``(A) conditionally determine the highest permanent 
                grade of satisfactory service on active duty of the 
                officer, pending completion of the investigation or 
                personnel action, as applicable; and
                    ``(B) retire the officer in that conditional grade, 
                subject to subsection (e).
            ``(3) Reduction or waiver of service-in-grade requirement 
        prohibited for general, flag, and equivalent officer grades.--
        In conditionally determining the retirement grade of an officer 
        under paragraph (1)(A) or (2)(A) of this subsection to be a 
        grade above the grade of colonel in the Army, Air Force, or 
        Marine Corps, captain in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in 
        the Space Force, the service-in-grade requirement in subsection 
        (b)(1) may not be reduced pursuant to subsection (b)(1) or 
        waived pursuant to subsection (b)(3).
            ``(4) Prohibition on delegation.--The authority of the 
        Secretary of a military department under paragraph (1) may not 
        be delegated. The authority of the Secretary of Defense under 
        paragraph (2) may not be delegated.
    ``(e) Final Retirement Grade Following Resolution of Pending 
Investigation or Adverse Action.--
            ``(1) No change from conditional retirement grade.--If the 
        resolution of an investigation or personnel action with respect 
        to an officer who has been retired in a conditional retirement 
        grade pursuant to subsection (d) results in a determination 
        that the conditional retirement grade in which the officer was 
        retired will not be changed, the conditional retirement grade 
        of the officer shall, subject to paragraph (3), be the final 
        retired grade of the officer.
            ``(2) Change from conditional retirement grade.--If the 
        resolution of an investigation or personnel action with respect 
        to an officer who has been retired in a conditional retirement 
        grade pursuant to subsection (d) results in a determination 
        that the conditional retirement grade in which the officer was 
        retired should be changed, the changed retirement grade shall 
        be the final retired grade of the officer under this section, 
        except that if the final retirement grade provided for an 
        officer pursuant to this paragraph is the grade of lieutenant 
        general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, 
        vice admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in 
        the Space Force, the requirements in subsection (c) shall apply 
        in connection with the retirement of the officer in such final 
        retirement grade.
            ``(3) Recalculation of retired pay.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the final retired grade of an 
                officer is as a result of a change under paragraph (2), 
                the retired pay of the officer under chapter 71 of this 
                title shall be recalculated accordingly, with any 
                modification of the retired pay of the officer to go 
                into effect as of the date of the retirement of the 
                officer.
                    ``(B) Payment of higher amount for period of 
                conditional retirement grade.--If the recalculation of 
                the retired pay of an officer results in an increase in 
                retired pay, the officer shall be paid the amount by 
                which such increased retired pay exceeded the amount of 
                retired pay paid the officer for retirement in the 
                officer's conditional grade during the period beginning 
                on the date of the retirement of the officer in such 
                conditional grade and ending on the effective date of 
                the change of the officer's retired grade. For an 
                officer whose retired grade is determined pursuant to 
                subsection (c), the effective date of the change of the 
                officer's retired grade for purposes of this 
                subparagraph shall be the date that is 60 days after 
                the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to 
                the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives the certification required by 
                subsection (c) in connection with the retired grade of 
                the officer.
                    ``(C) Recoupment of overage during period of 
                conditional retirement grade.--If the recalculation of 
                the retired pay of an officer results in a decrease in 
                retired pay, there shall be recouped from the officer 
                the amount by which the amount of retired pay paid the 
                officer for retirement in the officer's conditional 
                grade exceeded such decreased retired pay during the 
                period beginning on the date of the retirement of the 
                officer in such conditional grade and ending on the 
                effective date of the change of the officer's retired 
                grade.
    ``(f) Finality of Retired Grade Determinations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except for a conditional determination 
        authorized by subsection (d), a determination of the retired 
        grade of an officer pursuant to this section is 
        administratively final on the day the officer is retired, and 
        may not be reopened, except as provided in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Reopening.--A final determination of the retired 
        grade of an officer may be reopened as follows:
                    ``(A) If the retirement or retired grade of the 
                officer was procured by fraud.
                    ``(B) If substantial evidence comes to light after 
                the retirement that could have led to determination of 
                a different retired grade under this section if known 
                by competent authority at the time of retirement.
                    ``(C) If a mistake of law or calculation was made 
                in the determination of the retired grade.
                    ``(D) If the applicable Secretary determines, 
                pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
                Defense, that good cause exists to reopen the 
                determination of retired grade.
            ``(3) Applicable secretary.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the applicable Secretary for purposes of a 
        determination or action specified in this subsection is--
                    ``(A) the Secretary of the military department 
                concerned, in the case of an officer retired in a grade 
                at or below the grade of major general in the Army, Air 
                Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the Navy, or 
                the equivalent grade in the Space Force; or
                    ``(B) the Secretary of Defense, in the case of an 
                officer retired in a grade of lieutenant general or 
                general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice 
                admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade 
                in the Space Force.
            ``(4) Notice and limitation.--If a final determination of 
        the retired grade of an officer is reopened in accordance with 
        paragraph (2), the applicable Secretary--
                    ``(A) shall notify the officer of the reopening; 
                and
                    ``(B) may not make an adverse determination on the 
                retired grade of the officer until the officer has had 
                a reasonable opportunity to respond regarding the basis 
                for the reopening of the officer's retired grade.
            ``(5) Additional notice on reopening for officers retired 
        in o-9 and o-10 grades.--If the determination of the retired 
        grade of an officer whose retired grade was provided for 
        pursuant to subsection (c) is reopened, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall also notify the President and the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
            ``(6) Manner of making of change.--If the retired grade of 
        an officer is proposed to be changed through the reopening of 
        the final determination of an officer's retired grade under 
        this subsection, the change in grade shall be made--
                    ``(A) in the case of an officer whose retired grade 
                is to be changed to a grade at or below the grade of 
                major general in the Army, Air Force or Marine Corps, 
                rear admiral in the Navy, or the equivalent grade in 
                the Space Force, in accordance with subsections (a) and 
                (b)--
                            ``(i) by the Secretary of Defense (who may 
                        delegate such authority only as authorized by 
                        clause (ii)); or
                            ``(ii) if authorized by the Secretary of 
                        Defense, by the Secretary of the military 
                        department concerned (who may not further 
                        delegate such authority);
                    ``(B) in the case of an officer whose retired grade 
                is to be changed to the grade of lieutenant general or 
                general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, vice 
                admiral or admiral in the Navy, or an equivalent grade 
                in the Space Force, by the President, by and with the 
                advice and consent of the Senate.
            ``(7) Recalculation of retired pay.--If the final retired 
        grade of an officer is changed through the reopening of the 
        officer's retired grade under this subsection, the retired pay 
        of the officer under chapter 71 of this title shall be 
        recalculated. Any modification of the retired pay of the 
        officer as a result of the change shall go into effect on the 
        effective date of the change of the officer's retired grade, 
        and the officer shall not be entitled or subject to any changed 
        amount of retired pay for any period before such effective 
        date. An officer whose retired grade is changed as provided in 
        paragraph (6)(B) shall not be entitled or subject to a change 
        in retired pay for any period before the date on which the 
        Senate provides advice and consent for the retirement of the 
        officer in such grade.
    ``(g) Highest Permanent Grade Defined.--In this section, the term 
`highest permanent grade' means a grade at or below the grade of major 
general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, rear admiral in the 
Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force.
``Sec. 1370a. Officers entitled to retired pay for non-regular service
    ``(a) Retirement in Highest Grade Held Satisfactorily.--Unless 
entitled to a different grade, or to credit for satisfactory service in 
a different grade under some other provision of law, a person who is 
entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of this title shall, upon 
application under section 12731 of this title, be credited with 
satisfactory service in the highest permanent grade in which that 
person served satisfactorily at any time in the armed forces, as 
determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned in 
accordance with this section.
    ``(b) Service-in-grade Requirement for Officers in Grades Below O-
5.--In order to be credited with satisfactory service in an officer 
grade (other than a warrant officer grade) below the grade of 
lieutenant colonel or commander (in the case of the Navy), a person 
covered by subsection (a) must have served satisfactorily in that grade 
(as determined by the Secretary of the military department concerned) 
as a reserve commissioned officer in an active status, or in a retired 
status on active duty, for not less than six months.
    ``(c) Service-in-grade Requirement for Offices in Grades Above O-
4.--
            ``(1) In general.--In order to be credited with 
        satisfactory service in an officer grade above major or 
        lieutenant commander (in the case of the Navy), a person 
        covered by subsection (a) must have served satisfactorily in 
        that grade (as determined by the Secretary of the military 
        department concerned) as a reserve commissioned officer in an 
        active status, or in a retired status on active duty, for not 
        less than three years.
            ``(2) Satisfaction of requirement by certain officers not 
        completing three years.--A person covered by paragraph (1) who 
        has completed at least six months of satisfactory service in 
        grade may be credited with satisfactory service in the grade in 
        which serving at the time of transfer or discharge, 
        notwithstanding failure of the person to complete three years 
        of service in that grade, if the person is transferred from an 
        active status or discharged as a reserve commissioned officer--
                    ``(A) solely due to the requirements of a 
                nondiscretionary provision of law requiring that 
                transfer or discharge due to the person's age or years 
                of service; or
                    ``(B) because the person no longer meets the 
                qualifications for membership in the Ready Reserve 
                solely because of a physical disability, as determined, 
                at a minimum, by a medical evaluation board and at the 
                time of such transfer or discharge the person (pursuant 
                to section 12731b of this title or otherwise) meets the 
                service requirements established by section 12731(a) of 
                this title for eligibility for retired pay under 
                chapter 1223 of this title, unless the disability is 
                described in section 12731b of this title.
            ``(3) Reduction in service-in-grade requirements.--
                    ``(A) Officers in grades below general and flag 
                officer grades.--In the case of a person to be retired 
                in a grade below brigadier general or rear admiral 
                (lower half) in the Navy, the Secretary of Defense may 
                authorize the Secretary of a military department to 
                reduce, subject to subparagraph (B), the three-year 
                period of service-in-grade required by paragraph (1) to 
                a period not less than two years. The authority of the 
                Secretary of a military department under this 
                subparagraph may not be delegated.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--The number of reserve 
                commissioned officers of an armed force in the same 
                grade for whom a reduction is made under subparagraph 
                (A) during any fiscal year in the period of service-in-
                grade otherwise required by paragraph (1) may not 
                exceed the number equal to 2 percent of the strength 
                authorized for that fiscal year for reserve 
                commissioned officers of that armed force in an active 
                status in that grade.
                    ``(C) Officers in general and flag officers 
                grades.--The Secretary of Defense may reduce the three-
                year period of service-in-grade required by paragraph 
                (1) to a period not less than two years for any person, 
                including a person who, upon transfer to the Retired 
                Reserve or discharge, is to be credited with 
                satisfactory service in a general or flag officer grade 
                under that paragraph. The authority of the Secretary of 
                Defense under this subparagraph may not be delegated.
                    ``(D) Notice to congress on reduction in service-
                in-grade requirements for general and flag officer 
                grades.--In the case of a person to be credited under 
                this section with satisfactory service in a grade that 
                is a general or flag officer grade who is eligible to 
                be credited with such service in that grade only by 
                reason of an exercise of authority in subparagraph (C) 
                to reduce the three-year service-in-grade requirement 
                otherwise applicable under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
                of Defense shall, not later than 60 days prior to the 
                date on which the person will be credited with such 
                satisfactory service in that grade, notify the 
                Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives of the exercise of authority 
                in subparagraph (C) with respect to that person.
            ``(4) Officers serving in grades above o-6 involuntarily 
        transferred from active status.--A person covered by paragraph 
        (1) who has completed at least six months of satisfactory 
        service in a grade above colonel or (in the case of the Navy) 
        captain and, while serving in an active status in such grade, 
        is involuntarily transferred (other than for cause) from active 
        status may be credited with satisfactory service in the grade 
        in which serving at the time of such transfer, notwithstanding 
        failure of the person to complete three years of service in 
        that grade.
            ``(5) Adjutants and assistant adjutants general.--If a 
        person covered by paragraph (1) has completed at least six 
        months of satisfactory service in grade, the person was serving 
        in that grade while serving in a position of adjutant general 
        required under section 314 of title 32 or while serving in a 
        position of assistant adjutant general subordinate to such a 
        position of adjutant general, and the person has failed to 
        complete three years of service in that grade solely because 
        the person's appointment to such position has been terminated 
        or vacated as described in section 324(b) of such title, the 
        person may be credited with satisfactory service in that grade, 
        notwithstanding the failure of the person to complete three 
        years of service in that grade.
            ``(6) Officers recommended for promotion serving in certain 
        grade before promotion.--To the extent authorized by the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned, a person who, 
        after having been recommended for promotion in a report of a 
        promotion board but before being promoted to the recommended 
        grade, served in a position for which that grade is the minimum 
        authorized grade may be credited for purposes of paragraph (1) 
        as having served in that grade for the period for which the 
        person served in that position while in the next lower grade. 
        The period credited may not include any period before the date 
        on which the Senate provides advice and consent for the 
        appointment of that person in the recommended grade.
            ``(7) Officers qualified for federal recognition serving in 
        certain grade before appointment.--To the extent authorized by 
        the Secretary of the military department concerned, a person 
        who, after having been found qualified for Federal recognition 
        in a higher grade by a board under section 307 of title 32, 
        serves in a position for which that grade is the minimum 
        authorized grade and is appointed as a reserve officer in that 
        grade may be credited for the purposes of paragraph (1) as 
        having served in that grade. The period of the service for 
        which credit is afforded under the preceding sentence may be 
        only the period for which the person served in the position 
        after the Senate provides advice and consent for the 
        appointment.
            ``(8) Retirement in next lowest grade for officers not 
        meeting service-in-grade requirements.--A person whose length 
        of service in the highest grade held does not meet the service-
        in-grade requirements specified in this subsection shall be 
        credited with satisfactory service in the next lower grade in 
        which that person served satisfactorily (as determined by the 
        Secretary of the military department concerned) for not less 
        than six months.
    ``(d) Officers in O-9 and O-10 Grades.--
            ``(1) In general.--A person covered by this section in the 
        Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who is serving or has 
        served in a position of importance and responsibility 
        designated by the President to carry the grade of lieutenant 
        general or general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps, or 
        vice admiral or admiral in the Navy under section 601 of this 
        title may be retired in such grade under subsection (a) only 
        after the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing to the 
        President and the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
        and the House of Representatives that the officer served 
        satisfactorily in such grade.
            ``(2) Prohibition on delegation.--The authority of the 
        Secretary of Defense to make a certification with respect to an 
        officer under paragraph (1) may not be delegated.
            ``(3) Requirements in connection with certification.--A 
        certification with respect to an officer under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    ``(A) be submitted by the Secretary of Defense such 
                that it is received by the President and the Committees 
                on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
                Representatives not later than 60 days prior to the 
                date on which the officer will be retired in the grade 
                concerned;
                    ``(B) include an up-to-date copy of the military 
                biography of the officer; and
                    ``(C) include the statement of the Secretary as to 
                whether or not potentially adverse, adverse, or 
                reportable information regarding the officer was 
                considered by the Secretary in making the 
                certification.
            ``(4) Construction with other notice.--In the case of an 
        officer under paragraph (1) who is eligible to be credited with 
        service in a grade only by reason of the exercise of the 
        authority in subsection (c)(3)(C) to reduce the three-year 
        service-in-grade requirement under subsection (c)(1), the 
        requirement for notification under subsection (c)(3)(D) is 
        satisfied if the notification is included in the certification 
        submitted by the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (1).
    ``(e) Conditional Retirement Grade and Retirement for Officers 
Under Investigation for Misconduct or Pending Adverse Personnel 
Action.--The retirement grade, and retirement, of a person covered by 
this section who is under investigation for alleged misconduct or 
pending the disposition of an adverse personnel action at the time of 
retirement is as provided for by section 1370(d) of this title. In the 
application of such section 1370(d) for purposes of this subsection, 
any reference `active duty' shall be deemed not to apply, and any 
reference to a provision of section 1370 of this title shall be deemed 
to be a reference to the analogous provision of this section.
    ``(f) Final Retirement Grade Following Resolution of Pending 
Investigation or Adverse Action.--The final retirement grade under this 
section of a person described in subsection (e) following resolution of 
the investigation or personnel action concerned is the final retirement 
grade provided for by section 1370(e) of this title. In the application 
of such section 1370(e) for purposes of this subsection, any reference 
to a provision of section 1370 of this title shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the analogous provision of this section. In the 
application of paragraph (3) of such section 1370e(e) for purposes of 
this subsection, the reference to `chapter 71' of this title shall be 
deemed to be a reference to `chapter 1223 of this title'.
    ``(g) Finality of Retired Grade Determinations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except for a conditional determination 
        authorized by subsection (e), a determination of the retired 
        grade of a person pursuant to this section is administratively 
        final on the day the person is retired, and may not be 
        reopened.
            ``(2) Reopening.--A determination of the retired grade of a 
        person may be reopened in accordance with applicable provisions 
        of section 1370(f) of this title. In the application of such 
        section 1370(f) for purposes of this subsection, any reference 
        to a provision of section 1370 of this title shall be deemed to 
        be a reference to the analogous provision of this section. In 
        the application of paragraph (7) of such section 1370(f) for 
        purposes of this paragraph, the reference to `chapter 71 of 
        this title' shall be deemed to be a reference to `chapter 1223 
        of this title'.
    ``(h) Highest Permanent Grade Defined.--In this section, the term 
`highest permanent grade' means a grade at or below the grade of major 
general in the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps or rear admiral in the 
Navy.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 69 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 1370 and 
        inserting the following new items:

``1370. Regular commissioned officers.
``1370a. Officers entitled to retired pay for non-regular service.''.
    (b) Conforming and Technical Amendments to Retired Grade Rules for 
the Armed Forces.--
            (1) Retired pay.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended 
        as follows:
                    (A) In section 1406(b)(2), by striking ``section 
                1370(d)'' and inserting ``section 1370a''.
                    (B) In section 1407(f)(2)(B), by striking ``by 
                reason of denial of a determination or certification 
                under section 1370'' and inserting ``pursuant to 
                section 1370 or 1370a''.
            (2) Army.--Section 7341 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the 
                following new subsection (a):
    ``(a)(1) The retired grade of a regular commissioned officer of the 
Army who retires other than for physical disability is determined under 
section 1370 of this title.
    ``(2) The retired grade of a reserve commissioned officer of the 
Army who retires other than for physical disability is determined under 
section 1370a of this title.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                        member''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his'' and inserting 
                        ``the member's''.
            (3) Navy and marine corps.--Such title is further amended 
        as follows:
                    (A) In section 8262(a), by striking ``sections 689 
                and 1370'' and inserting ``section 689, and section 
                1370 or 1370a (as applicable),''.
                    (B) In section 8323(c), by striking ``section 1370 
                of this title'' and inserting ``section 1370 or 1370a 
                of this title, as applicable''.
            (4) Air force and space force.--Section 9341 of such title 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the 
                following new subsection (a):
    ``(a)(1) The retired grade of a regular commissioned officer of the 
Air Force or the Space Force who retires other than for physical 
disability is determined under section 1370 of this title.
    ``(2) The retired grade of a reserve commissioned officer of the 
Air Force or the Space Force who retires other than for physical 
disability is determined under section 1370a of this title.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or a Regular or Reserve 
                        of the Space Force'' after ``Air Force'';
                            (ii) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                        member''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``his'' and inserting 
                        ``the member's''.
            (5) Reserve officers.--Section 12771 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 
                1370(d)'' and inserting ``section 1370a of this 
                title''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``section 
                1370(d)'' and inserting ``section 1370a''.
    (c) Other References.--In the determination of the retired grade of 
a commissioned officer of the Armed Forces entitled to retired pay 
under chapter 1223 of title 10, United States Code, who retires after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, any reference in a provision of 
law or regulation to section 1370 of title 10, United States Code, in 
such determination with respect to such officer shall be deemed to be a 
reference to section 1370a of title 10, United States Code (as amended 
by subsection (a)).

SEC. 508. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY FOR ORIGINAL APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR NAVY 
              OFFICERS DESIGNATED FOR ENGINEERING DUTY, AERONAUTICAL 
              ENGINEERING DUTY, AND SPECIAL DUTY.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 8137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 815 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 8137.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

SEC. 511. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN RESERVE GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY FROM LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORIZED STRENGTHS.

    (a) Duty for Certain Reserve Officers Under Joint Duty Limited 
Exclusion.--Subsection (b) of section 526a of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Duty for certain reserve officers.--Of the officers 
        designated pursuant to paragraph (1), the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff may designate up to 15 general and flag officer 
        positions in the unified and specified combatant commands, and 
        up to three general and flag officer positions on the Joint 
        Staff, as positions to be held only by reserve officers who are 
        in a general or flag officer grade below lieutenant general or 
        vice admiral. Each position so designated shall be considered 
        to be a joint duty assignment position for purposes of chapter 
        38 of this title.''.
    (b) Reserve Officers on Active Duty for Training or for Less Than 
180 Days.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (h) as 
        subsections (d) through (i), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Reserve Officers on Active Duty for Training or for Less Than 
180 Days.--The limitations of this section do not apply to a reserve 
general or flag officer who--
            ``(1) is on active duty for training; or
            ``(2) is on active duty under a call or order specifying a 
        period of less than 180 days.''.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

SEC. 516. INCREASED ACCESS TO POTENTIAL RECRUITS.

    (a) Secondary Schools.--Section 503(c)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``and telephone 
                listings,'' and all that follows through the period at 
                the end and inserting ``electronic mail addresses, home 
                telephone numbers, and mobile telephone numbers, 
                notwithstanding subsection (a)(5)(B) or (b) of section 
                444 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 
                1232g); and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
            ``(iii) shall provide information requested pursuant to 
        clause (ii) within a reasonable period of time, but in no event 
        later than 60 days after the date of the request.''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and telephone 
        listing'' and inserting ``electronic mail address, home 
        telephone number, or mobile telephone number''.
    (b) Institutions of Higher Education.--Section 983(b) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and 
                telephone listings'' and inserting ``electronic mail 
                addresses, home telephone numbers, and mobile telephone 
                numbers, which information shall be made available not 
                later than 60 days after the start of classes for the 
                current semester or not later than 60 days after the 
                date of a request, whichever is later''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) access by military recruiters for purposes of 
        military recruiting to lists of students (who are 17 years of 
        age or older) not returning to the institution after having 
        been enrolled during the previous semester, together with 
        student recruiting information and the reason why the student 
        did not return, if collected by the institution.''.

SEC. 517. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO ORDER RETIRED MEMBERS TO ACTIVE DUTY 
              IN HIGH-DEMAND, LOW-DENSITY ASSIGNMENTS DURING WAR OR 
              NATIONAL EMERGENCY.

    Section 688a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsection (g):
    ``(g) Exceptions During Periods of War or National Emergency.--The 
limitations in subsections (c) and (f) shall not apply during a time of 
war or of national emergency declared by Congress or the President.''.

SEC. 518. CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DISCHARGE FROM ACTIVE DUTY (DD FORM 
              214) MATTERS.

    (a) Redesignation as Certificate of Military Service.--
            (1) In general.--Department of Defense Form DD 214, the 
        Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, is hereby 
        redesignated as the Certificate of Military Service.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 1168(a) of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``discharge 
        certificate or certificate of release from active duty, 
        respectively,'' and inserting ``Certificate of Military 
        Serve''.
            (3) References.--Any reference in a law, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to 
        Department of Defense Form DD 214, the Certificate of Release 
        or Discharge from Active Duty, shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to the Certificate of Military Service.
            (4) Technical amendments.--Such section 1168(a) is further 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``until his'' and inserting ``until 
                the member's'';
                    (B) by striking ``his final pay'' and inserting 
                ``the member's final pay''; and
                    (C) by striking ``him or his next of kin'' and 
                inserting ``the member or the member's next of kin''.
            (5) Effective dates.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), this subsection and the amendments made by this 
                subsection shall take effect on the date provided for 
                in subsection (d) of section 569 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
                Law 116-92), as redesignated by subsection (b)(1)(B) of 
                this section.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--The amendments made by 
                paragraph (4) of this subsection shall take effect on 
                the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Additional Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Section 569 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) 
                        as paragraphs (2) and (4), respectively;
                            (ii) by inserting before paragraph (2), as 
                        redesignated by clause (i), the following new 
                        paragraph (1);
            ``(1) redesignate such form as the Certificate of Military 
        Service;''.
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, 
                        by striking ``and'' at the end; and
                            (iv) by inserting after paragraph (2), as 
                        so redesignated, the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) provide for a standard total force record of military 
        service for all members of the Armed Forces, including member 
        of the reserve components, that summarizes the record of 
        service for each member; and'';
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting after subsection (a) the following 
                new subsections:
    ``(b) Issuance to Reserves.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide 
for the issuance of the Certificate of Military Service, as modified 
pursuant to subsection (a), to members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces at such times during their military service as is 
appropriate to facilitate their access to benefits under the laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    ``(c) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary of 
Defense shall coordinate with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
ensure that the Certificate of Military Service, as modified pursuant 
to subsection (a), is recognized as the Certificate of Military Service 
referred to in section 1168(a) of title 10, United States Code, and for 
the purposes of establishing eligibility for applicable benefits under 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.''; and
                    (D) in subsection (d), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B), by striking ``a revised Certificate 
                of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214), 
                modified'' and inserting ``the Certificate of Military 
                Service, as modified''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section 569 
        is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 569. CERTIFICATE OF RELEASE OR DISCHARGE FROM ACTIVE DUTY (DD 
              FORM 214) MATTERS.''.

            (3) Repeal of superseded requirements.--Section 570 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is 
        repealed.

SEC. 519. EVALUATION OF BARRIERS TO MINORITY PARTICIPATION IN CERTAIN 
              UNITS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In 1999, the RAND Corporation issued a report entitled 
        ``Barriers to Minority Participation in Special Operations 
        Forces'' that was sponsored by United States Special Operations 
        Command.
            (2) In 2018, the RAND Corporation issued a report entitles 
        ``Understanding Demographic Differences in Undergraduate Pilot 
        Training Attrition'' that was sponsored by the Air Force.
            (3) No significant independent study has been performed by 
        a federally funded research and development center into 
        increasing minority participation in the special operations 
        forces since 1999.
    (b) Study Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, 
        acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
        Readiness, seek to enter into an agreement with a federally 
        funded research and development center.
            (2) Elements.--The evaluation under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following elements:
                    (A) A description of the racial, ethnic, and gender 
                composition of covered units.
                    (B) A comparison of the participation rates of 
                minority populations in covered units to participation 
                rates of the general population as members and as 
                officers of the Armed Forces.
                    (C) A comparison of the percentage of minority 
                officers in the grade of O-7 or higher who have served 
                in each covered unit to such percentage for all such 
                officers in the Armed Force of that covered unit.
                    (D) An identification of barriers to minority 
                participation in the accession, assessment, and 
                training processes.
                    (E) The status and effectiveness of the response to 
                the recommendations contained in the report referred to 
                in subsection (a)(1) and any follow-up recommendations.
                    (F) Recommendations to increase the numbers of 
                minority officers in the Armed Forces.
                    (G) Recommendations to increase minority 
                participation in covered units.
                    (H) Any other matters the Secretary determines 
                appropriate.
            (3) Report to congress.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) submit to the congressional defense committees 
                a report on the results of the study by not later than 
                January 1, 2022; and
                    (B) provide interim briefings to such committees 
                upon request.
    (c) Designation.--The study conducted under subsection (b) shall be 
known as the ``Study on Reducing Barriers to Minority Participation in 
Elite Units in the Armed Services''.
    (d) Implementation Plan.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth an 
implementation plan for the recommendations that the Secretary 
implements under this section, including--
            (1) the response of the Secretary to each such 
        recommendation;
            (2) a summary of actions the Secretary has carried out, or 
        intends to carry out, to implement such recommendations, as 
        appropriate; and
            (3) a schedule, with specific milestones, for completing 
        the implementation of such recommendations.
    (e) Covered Units Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
units'' means the following:
            (1) Any forces designated by the Secretary as special 
        operations forces.
            (2) Air Force Combat Control Teams.
            (3) Air Force Pararescue.
            (4) Marine Corps Force Reconnaissance.
            (5) Coast Guard Deployable Operations Group.
            (6) Pilot and navigator military occupational specialties.

SEC. 520. REPORTS ON DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Report on Findings of Defense Board on Diversity and Inclusion 
in the Military.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the completion by the Defense Board 
        on Diversity and Inclusion in the Military of its report on 
        actionable recommendations to increase racial diversity and 
        ensure equal opportunity across all grades of the Armed Forces, 
        the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the report of the Defense Board, including the 
        findings and recommendations of the Defense Board.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A comprehensive description of the findings and 
                recommendations of the Defense Board in its report 
                referred to in paragraph (1).
                    (B) A comprehensive description of any actionable 
                recommendations of the Defense Board in its report.
                    (C) A description of the actions proposed to be 
                undertaken by the Secretary in connection with such 
                recommendations, and a timeline for implementation of 
                such actions.
                    (D) A description of the resources used by the 
                Defense Board for its report, and a description and 
                assessment of any shortfalls in such resources for 
                purposes of the Defense Board.
    (b) Report on Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion 
in the Armed Forces.--
            (1) In general.--At the same time the Secretary of Defense 
        submits the report required by subsection (a), the Secretary 
        shall also submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the Defense 
        Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed 
        Forces.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The mission statement or purpose of the 
                Advisory Committee, and any proposed objectives and 
                goals of the Advisory Committee.
                    (B) A description of current members of the 
                Advisory Committee and the criteria used for selecting 
                members.
                    (C) A description of the duties and scope of 
                activities of the Advisory Committee.
                    (D) The reporting structure of the Advisory 
                Committee.
                    (E) An estimate of the annual operating costs and 
                staff years of the Advisory Committee.
                    (F) An estimate of the number and frequency of 
                meetings of the Advisory Committee.
                    (G) Any subcommittees, established or proposed, 
                that would support the Advisory Committee.
                    (H) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate to extend the term of the Advisory 
                Committee beyond the proposed termination date of the 
                Advisory Committee.
    (c) Report on Current Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed 
Forces.--
            (1) In general.--At the same time the Secretary of Defense 
        submits the reports required by subsections (a) and (b), the 
        Secretary shall also submit to the Committee on Armed Services 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
        current diversity and inclusion in the Armed Forces.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An identification of the current racial, 
                ethnic, and sex composition of each Armed Force 
                generally.
                    (B) An identification of the current racial, 
                ethnic, and sex composition of each Armed Force by 
                grade.
                    (C) A comparison of the participation rates of 
                minority populations in officer grades, warrant officer 
                grades, and enlisted member grades in each Armed Force 
                with the percentage of such populations among the 
                general population.
                    (D) A comparison of the participation rates of 
                minority populations in each career field in each Armed 
                Force with the percentage of such populations among the 
                general population.
                    (E) A comparison among the Armed Forces of the 
                percentage of minority populations in each officer 
                grade above grade O-4.
                    (F) A comparison among the Armed Forces of the 
                percentage of minority populations in each enlisted 
                grade above grade E-6.
                    (G) A description and assessment of barriers to 
                minority participation in the Armed Forces in 
                connection with accession, assessment, and training.
    (d) Sense of Senate on Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and 
Inclusion in the Armed Forces.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Defense Advisory Committee on Diversity and Inclusion in the Armed 
Forces--
            (1) should consist of diverse group of individuals, 
        including--
                    (A) a general or flag officer from each regular 
                component of the Armed Forces;
                    (B) a retired general or flag officer from not 
                fewer than two of the Armed Forces;
                    (C) a regular officer of the Armed Forces in a 
                grade O-5 or lower;
                    (D) a regular enlisted member of the Armed Forces 
                in a grade E-7 or higher;
                    (E) a regular enlisted member of the Armed Forces 
                in a grade E-6 or lower;
                    (F) a member of a reserve component of the Armed 
                Forces in any grade;
                    (G) a member of the Department of Defense civilian 
                workforce;
                    (H) an member of the academic community with 
                expertise in diversity studies; and
                    (I) an individual with appropriate expertise in 
                diversity and inclusion;
            (2) should include individuals from a variety of military 
        career paths, including--
                    (A) aviation;
                    (B) special operations;
                    (C) intelligence;
                    (D) cyber;
                    (E) space; and
                    (F) surface warfare;
            (3) should have a membership such that not fewer than 20 
        percent of members possess--
                    (A) a firm understanding of the role of mentorship 
                and best practices in finding and utilizing mentors;
                    (B) experience and expertise in change of culture 
                of large organizations; or
                    (C) experience and expertise in implementation 
                science; and
            (4) should focus on objectives that address--
                    (A) barriers to promotion within the Armed Forces, 
                including development of recommendations on mechanisms 
                to enhance and increase racial diversity and ensure 
                equal opportunity across all grades in the Armed 
                Forces;
                    (B) participation of minority officers and senior 
                noncommissioned officers in the Armed Forces, including 
                development of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance 
                and increase such participation;
                    (C) recruitment of minority candidates for 
                innovative pre-service programs in the Junior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps (JROTC), Senior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps (SROTC), and military service 
                academies, including programs in connection with flight 
                instruction, special operations, and national security, 
                including development of recommendations on mechanisms 
                to enhance and increase such recruitment;
                    (D) retention of minority individuals in senior 
                leadership and mentorship positions in the Armed 
                Forces, including development of recommendations on 
                mechanisms to enhance and increase such retention; and
                    (E) achievement of cultural and ethnic diversity in 
                recruitment for the Armed Forces, including development 
                of recommendations on mechanisms to enhance and 
                increase such diversity in recruitment.

            Subtitle D--Military Justice and Related Matters

 PART I--INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT AND 
                            RELATED MATTERS

SEC. 521. MODIFICATION OF TIME REQUIRED FOR EXPEDITED DECISIONS IN 
              CONNECTION WITH APPLICATIONS FOR CHANGE OF STATION OR 
              UNIT TRANSFER OF MEMBERS WHO ARE VICTIMS OF SEXUAL 
              ASSAULT OR RELATED OFFENSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 673(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``72 hours'' both places it appears and inserting 
``five calendar days''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
to decisions on applications for permanent change of station or unit 
transfer made under section 673 of title 10, United States Code, on or 
after that date.

SEC. 522. DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL 
              MISCONDUCT.

    Section 550B of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1)(B), by inserting ``, including the 
        United States Coast Guard Academy,'' after ``academy'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
        subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Advisory Duties on Coast Guard Academy.--In providing advice 
under subsection (c)(1)(B), the Advisory Committee shall also advise 
the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
in accordance with this section on policies, programs, and practices of 
the United States Coast Guard Academy.''; and
            (4) in subsection (e) and paragraph (2) of subsection (g), 
        as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this section, by striking 
        ``the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives'' each place it appears and inserting ``the 
        Committees on Armed Services and Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate and the Committees on Armed 
        Services and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives''.

SEC. 523. REPORT ON ABILITY OF SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE COORDINATORS AND 
              SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE VICTIM ADVOCATES 
              TO PERFORM DUTIES.

    (a) Survey.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall conduct a survey regarding the 
        ability of Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual 
        Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to perform 
        their duties.
            (2) Elements.--The survey required under paragraph (1) 
        shall assess--
                    (A) the current state of support provided to Sexual 
                Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault 
                Prevention and Response Victim Advocates, including--
                            (i) perceived professional or other 
                        reprisal or retaliation; and
                            (ii) access to sufficient physical and 
                        mental health services as a result of the 
                        nature of their work;
                    (B) the ability of Sexual Assault Response 
                Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response 
                Victim Advocates to contact and access their 
                installation commander or unit commander;
                    (C) the ability of Sexual Assault Response 
                Coordinators and Sexual Assault Prevention and Response 
                Victim Advocates to contact and access the immediate 
                commander of victims and alleged offenders;
                    (D) the responsiveness and receptiveness of 
                commanders to the Sexual Assault Response Coordinators;
                    (E) the support and services provided to victims of 
                sexual assault;
                    (F) the understanding of others of the process and 
                their willingness to assist;
                    (G) the adequacy of the training received by Sexual 
                Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault 
                Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to effectively 
                perform their duties; and
                    (H) any other factors affecting the ability of 
                Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault 
                Prevention and Response Victim Advocates to perform 
                their duties.
    (b) Report.--Upon completion of the survey required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
report on the results of the survey and any actions to be taken as a 
result of the survey.

SEC. 524. BRIEFING ON SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL PROGRAM.

    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Judge Advocates General of the Army, the 
Navy, the Air Force, and the Coast Guard, and the Staff Judge Advocate 
to the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall each provide to the 
congressional defense committees a briefing on the status of the 
Special Victims' Counsel program of the Armed Force concerned.
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the Special Victims Counsel program of the Armed Force 
concerned, the following:
            (1) An assessment of whether the Armed Force is in 
        compliance with the provisions of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) 
        relating to the Special Victims Counsel program and, if not, 
        what steps have been taken to achieve compliance with such 
        provisions.
            (2) An estimate of the average caseload of each Special 
        Victims' Counsel.
            (3) A description of any staffing shortfalls in the Special 
        Victims' Counsel program or other programs of the Armed Force 
        resulting from the additional responsibilities required of the 
        Special Victims' Counsel program under the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
            (4) An explanation of the ability of Special Victims' 
        Counsel to adhere to requirement that a counsel respond to a 
        request for services within 72 hours of receiving such request.
            (5) An assessment of the feasibility of providing cross-
        service Special Victims' Counsel representation in instances 
        where a Special Victims' Counsel from a different Armed Force 
        is co-located with a victim at a remote base.

SEC. 525. ACCOUNTABILITY OF LEADERSHIP OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR 
              DISCHARGING THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT.

    (a) Strategy on Holding Leadership Accountable Required.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement Department of Defense-
wide a strategy to hold individuals in positions of leadership in the 
Department (including members of the Armed Forces and civilians) 
accountable for the promotion, support, and enforcement of the policies 
and programs of the Department on sexual harassment.
    (b) Oversight Framework.--
            (1) In general.--The strategy required by subsection (a) 
        shall provide for an oversight framework for the efforts of the 
        Department of Defense to promote, support, and enforce the 
        policies and programs of the Department on sexual harassment.
            (2) Elements.--The oversight framework required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) Long-term goals, objectives, and milestones in 
                connection with the policies and programs of the 
                Department on sexual harassment.
                    (B) Strategies to achieve the goals, objectives, 
                and milestones referred to in subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Criteria for assessing progress toward the 
                achievement of the goals, objectives, and milestones 
                referred to in subparagraph (A).
                    (D) Criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the 
                policies and programs of the Department on sexual 
                harassment.
                    (E) Mechanisms to ensure that adequate resources 
                are available to the Office to develop and discharge 
                the oversight framework.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the actions taken to carry out this 
section, including the strategy developed and implemented pursuant to 
subsection, and the oversight framework developed and implemented 
pursuant to subsection (b).

SEC. 526. SAFE-TO-REPORT POLICY APPLICABLE ACROSS THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, prescribe in 
regulations a safe-to-report policy described in subsection (b) that 
applies with respect to all members of the Armed Forces (including 
members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces) and cadets and 
midshipmen at the military service academies.
    (b) Safe-to-report Policy.--The safe-to-report policy described in 
this subsection is a policy that prescribes the handling of minor 
collateral misconduct involving a member of the Armed Forces who is the 
alleged victim of sexual assault.
    (c) Aggravating Circumstances.--The regulations under subsection 
(a) shall specify aggravating circumstances that increase the gravity 
of minor collateral misconduct or its impact on good order and 
discipline for purposes of the safe-to-report policy.
    (d) Tracking of Collateral Misconduct Incidents.--In conjunction 
with the issuance of regulations under subsection (a), Secretary shall 
develop and implement a process to track incidents of minor collateral 
misconduct that are subject to the safe-to-report policy.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Armed Forces'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 101(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, 
        except such term does not include the Coast Guard.
            (2) The term ``military service academy'' means the 
        following:
                    (A) The United States Military Academy.
                    (B) The United States Naval Academy.
                    (C) The United States Air Force Academy.
            (3) The term ``minor collateral misconduct'' means any 
        minor misconduct that is potentially punishable under chapter 
        47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice), that--
                    (A) is committed close in time to or during the 
                sexual assault, and directly related to the incident 
                that formed the basis of the sexual assault allegation;
                    (B) is discovered as a direct result of the report 
                of sexual assault or the ensuing investigation into the 
                sexual assault; and
                    (C) does not involve aggravating circumstances (as 
                specified in the regulations prescribed under 
                subsection (c)) that increase the gravity of the minor 
                misconduct or its impact on good order and discipline.

SEC. 527. ADDITIONAL BASES FOR PROVISION OF ADVICE BY THE DEFENSE 
              ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL 
              MISCONDUCT.

    Section 550B(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (E); 
        and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
        subparagraphs:
                    ``(C) Efforts among private employers to prevent 
                sexual assault and sexual harassment among their 
                employees.
                    ``(D) Evidence-based studies on the prevention of 
                sexual assault and sexual harassment in the Armed 
                Forces, institutions of higher education, and the 
                private sector.''.

SEC. 528. ADDITIONAL MATTERS FOR REPORTS OF THE DEFENSE ADVISORY 
              COMMITTEE FOR THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.

    Section 550B(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by adding at the end 
the following: ``The report shall include the following:
            ``(1) A description and assessment of the extent and 
        effectiveness of the inclusion by the Armed Forces of sexual 
        assault prevention and response training in leader professional 
        military education (PME), especially in such education for 
        personnel in junior noncommissioned officer grades.
            ``(2) An assessment of the feasibility of--
                    ``(A) the screening of recruits before entry into 
                military service for prior incidents of sexual assault 
                and harassment, including through background checks; 
                and
                    ``(B) the administration of screening tests to 
                recruits to assess recruit views and beliefs on equal 
                opportunity, and whether such views and beliefs are 
                compatible with military service.
            ``(3) An assessment of the feasibility of conducting exit 
        interviews of members of the Armed Forces upon their discharge 
        release from the Armed Forces in order to determine whether 
        they experienced or witnessed sexual assault or harassment 
        during military service and did not report it, and an 
        assessment of the feasibility of combining such exit interviews 
        with the Catch a Serial Offender (CATCH) Program of the 
        Department of Defense.
            ``(4) An assessment whether the sexual assault reporting 
        databases of the Department are sufficiently anonymized to 
        ensure privacy while still providing military leaders with the 
        information as follows:
                    ``(A) The approximate length of time the victim and 
                the assailant had been at the duty station at which the 
                sexual assault occurred.
                    ``(B) The percentage of sexual assaults occurring 
                while the victim or assailant were on temporary duty, 
                leave, or otherwise away from their permanent duty 
                station.
                    ``(C) The number of sexual assaults that involve an 
                abuse of power by a commander or supervisor.''.

SEC. 529. POLICY ON SEPARATION OF VICTIM AND ACCUSED AT MILITARY 
              SERVICE ACADEMIES AND DEGREE-GRANTING MILITARY 
              EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, the Superintendent of 
each military service academy, and the head of each degree-granting 
military educational institution, prescribe in regulations a policy 
under which association between a cadet or midshipman of a military 
service academy, or a member of the Armed Forces enrolled in a degree-
granting military educational institution, who is the alleged victim of 
a sexual assault and the accused is minimized while both parties 
complete their course of study at the academy or institution concerned.
    (b) Elements.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
policy developed under subsection (a)--
            (1) is fair to the both the alleged victim and the accused;
            (2) provides for the confidentiality of the parties 
        involved;
            (3) provide that notice of the policy, including the 
        elements of the policy and the right to opt out of coverage by 
        the policy, is provided to the alleged victim upon the making 
        of an allegation of a sexual assault covered by the policy; and
            (4) provide an alleged victim the right to opt out of 
        coverage by the policy in connection with such sexual assault.
    (c) Military Service Academy Defined.--The term ``military service 
academy'' means the following:
            (1) The United States Military Academy.
            (2) The United States Naval Academy.
            (3) The United States Air Force Academy.
            (4) The United States Coast Guard Academy.

SEC. 530. BRIEFING ON PLACEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN 
              ACADEMIC STATUS WHO ARE VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT ONTO 
              NON-RATED PERIODS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall brief the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the feasibility and 
advisability, and current practice (if any), of the Department of 
Defense of granting requests by members of the Armed Forces who are in 
academic status (whether at the military service academies or in 
developmental education programs) and who are victims of sexual assault 
to be placed on a Non-Rated Period for their performance report.

                PART II--OTHER MILITARY JUSTICE MATTERS

SEC. 531. RIGHT TO NOTICE OF VICTIMS OF OFFENSES UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE 
              OF MILITARY JUSTICE REGARDING CERTAIN POST-TRIAL MOTIONS, 
              FILINGS, AND HEARINGS.

    Section 806b(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code (article 
6b(a)(2)) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as 
        subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph (D):
                    ``(D) A post-trial motion, filing, or hearing that 
                may address the finding or sentence of a court-martial 
                with respect to the accused, unseal privileged or 
                private information of the victim, or result in the 
                release of the accused.''.

SEC. 532. CONSIDERATION OF THE EVIDENCE BY COURTS OF CRIMINAL APPEALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 866 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 66 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e) through (j) as 
        subsections (f) through (k), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Consideration of the Evidence.--
            ``(1) In general.--In an appeal of a finding of guilty 
        under subsection (b), the Court of Criminal Appeals, upon 
        request of the accused, may consider the weight of the evidence 
        upon a specific showing by the accused of deficiencies in 
        proof. The Court may set aside and dismiss a finding if clearly 
        convinced that the finding was against the weight of the 
        evidence. The Court may affirm a lesser finding. A rehearing 
        may not be ordered.
            ``(2) Deference in consideration.--When considering a case 
        under subsection (b), the Court may weigh the evidence and 
        determine controverted questions of fact, subject to--
                    ``(A) appropriate deference to the fact that the 
                court-martial saw and heard the witnesses and other 
                evidence; and
                    ``(B) appropriate deference to findings of fact 
                entered into the record by the military judge.''.
    (b) Additional Qualifications of Appellate Military Judges.--
Subsection (a) of such section (article) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Each judge''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) In addition to any other qualifications specified in 
paragraph (1), any commissioned officer assigned as an appellate 
military judge to a Court of Criminal Appeals shall have not fewer than 
12 years of experience in military justice assignments before such 
assignment, and any civilian so assigned shall have not fewer than 12 
years as a judge or criminal trial attorney before such assignment.
    ``(B) A Judge Advocate General may waive the requirement in 
subparagraph (A) in connection with the assignment of an officer or 
civilian as an appellate military judge of a Court of Criminal Appeals 
if the Judge Advocate General determines that compliance with the 
requirement in the assignment of appellate military judges to a Court 
of Criminal Appeals will impair the ability of the Court to hear and 
decide appeals in a timely manner.
    ``(C) Not later than 120 days after waiving the requirement in 
subparagraph (A) pursuant to subparagraph (B), the Judge Advocate 
General shall notify the congressional defense committees of the 
waiver, and include with the notice an explanation for the shortage of 
appellate military judges and a plan for addressing such shortage.''.
    (c) Review by Full Court of Finding of Conviction Against Weight of 
Evidence.--Subsection (e) of such section (article), as amended by 
subsection (a) of this section, is further is amended by adding at the 
end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Review by full court of finding of conviction against 
        weight of evidence.--Any determination by the Court that a 
        finding was clearly against the weight of the evidence under 
        paragraph (1) shall be reviewed by the Court sitting as a 
        whole.''.

SEC. 533. PRESERVATION OF RECORDS OF THE MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.

    Section 940a of title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Preservation of Records Without Regard to Outcome.--The 
standards and criteria prescribed established by the Secretary of 
Defense under subsection (a) shall provide for the preservation of 
records, without regard to the outcome of the proceeding concerned, for 
not fewer than 15 years.''.

SEC. 534. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON 
              IMPLEMENTATION BY THE ARMED FORCES OF RECENT GAO 
              RECOMMENDATIONS AND STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS ON ASSESSMENT 
              OF RACIAL, ETHNIC, AND GENDER DISPARITIES IN THE MILITARY 
              JUSTICE SYSTEM.

    (a) Report Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report, in writing, on a study, conducted by 
the Comptroller General for purposes of the report, on the 
implementation by the Armed Forces of the following:
            (1) The recommendations in the May 2019 report of the 
        General Accountability Office entitled ``Military Justice: DOD 
        and the Coast Guard Need to Improve Their Capabilities to 
        Assess Racial and Gender Disparities'' (GAO-19-344).
            (2) Requirements in section 540I(b) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), 
        relating to assessments covered by such recommendations.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include, 
for each recommendation and requirement specified in that subsection, 
the following:
            (1) A description of the actions taken or planned by the 
        Department of Defense, the military department concerned, or 
        the Armed Force concerned to implement such recommendation or 
        requirement.
            (2) An assessment of the extent to which the actions taken 
        to implement such recommendation or requirement, as described 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), are effective or meet the intended 
        objective.
            (3) Any other matters in connection with such 
        recommendation or requirement, and the implementation of such 
        recommendation or requirement by the Armed Forces, that the 
        Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    (c) Briefings.--Not later than May 1, 2021, the Comptroller General 
shall provide the committees referred to in subsection (a) one or more 
briefings on the status of the study required by that subsection, 
including any preliminary findings and recommendations of the 
Comptroller General as a result of the study as of the date of such 
briefing.

SEC. 535. BRIEFING ON MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT FOR VICARIOUS TRAUMA FOR 
              CERTAIN PERSONNEL IN THE MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.

    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Judge Advocates General of the Army, the 
Navy, and the Air Force and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant 
of the Marine Corps shall jointly brief the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the mental 
health support for vicarious trauma provided to personnel in the 
military justice system specified in subsection (b).
    (b) Personnel.--The personnel specified in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Trial counsel.
            (2) Defense counsel.
            (3) Special Victims' Counsel.
            (4) Military investigative personnel.
    (c) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description and assessment of the mental health 
        support for vicarious trauma provided to personnel in the 
        military justice system specified in subsection (b), including 
        a description of the support services available and the support 
        services being used.
            (2) A description and assessment of mechanisms to eliminate 
        or reduce stigma in the pursuit by such personnel of such 
        mental health support.
            (3) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        providing such personnel with breaks between assignments or 
        cases as part of such mental health support in order to reduce 
        the effects of vicarious trauma.
            (4) A description and assessment of the extent, if any, to 
        which duty of such personnel on particular types of cases, or 
        in particular caseloads, contributes to vicarious trauma, and 
        of the extent, if any, to which duty on such cases or caseloads 
        has an effect on retention of such personnel in the Armed 
        Forces.
            (5) A description of the extent, if any, to which such 
        personnel are screened or otherwise assessed for vicarious 
        trauma before discharge or release from the Armed Forces.
            (6) Such other matters in connection with the provision of 
        mental health support for vicarious trauma to such personnel as 
        the Judge Advocates General and the Staff Judge Advocate 
        jointly consider appropriate.

SEC. 536. GUARDIAN AD LITEM PROGRAM FOR MINOR DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 540L(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 Stat. 1373) is amended by 
adding before the period at the end the following: ``, including an 
assessment of the feasibility and advisability of establishing a 
guardian ad litem program for military dependents living outside the 
United States''.

   Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, Transition, and Resilience

SEC. 541. TRAINING ON RELIGIOUS ACCOMMODATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) In General.--As recommended on page 149 of the Report of the 
Committee on Armed Services of the Senate to Accompany S. 1519 (115th 
Congress) (Senate Report 115-125), the Secretary of Defense shall 
develop and implement training on Federal statutes, Department of 
Defense instructions, and the regulations of each Armed Force regarding 
religious liberty and accommodation for members of the Armed Forces, 
including the responsibility of commanders to maintain good order and 
discipline.
    (b) Consultation.--The Secretary develop and implement the training 
required by subsection (a) in consultation with the following:
            (1) The General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
            (2) The Judge Advocate General of the Army, the Judge 
        Advocate General of the Navy, and the Judge Advocate General of 
        the Air Force.
            (3) The Chief of Chaplains of the Army, the Chief of 
        Chaplains of the Navy, and the Chief of Chaplains of the Air 
        Force.
    (c) Contents.--The content of the training shall be consistent with 
and include coverage of each of the following:
            (1) The Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (42 
        U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).
            (2) Section 533 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. prec. 1030 note).
            (3) Section 528 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 814).
    (d) Implementation.--
            (1) Recipients.--The recipients of training developed under 
        subsection (a) shall include the following at all levels of 
        command:
                    (A) Commanders
                    (B) Chaplains.
                    (C) Judge advocates.
                    (D) Such other members of the Armed Forces as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Commencement.--The provision of training developed 
        under subsection (a) shall commence not later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 542. ADDITIONAL ELEMENTS WITH 2021 CERTIFICATIONS ON THE READY, 
              RELEVANT LEARNING INITIATIVE OF THE NAVY.

    (a) Additional Elements.--In submitting to Congress in 2021 the 
certifications required by section 545 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1396; 10 U.S.C. 8431 note prec.), relating to the Ready, Relevant 
Learning initiative of the Navy, the Secretary of the Navy shall also 
submit each of the following:
            (1) A life cycle sustainment plan for the Ready, Relevant 
        Learning initiative meeting the requirements in subsection (b).
            (2) A report on the use of readiness assessment teams in 
        training addressing the elements specified in subsection (c).
    (b) Life Cycle Sustainment Plan.--The life cycle sustainment plan 
required by subsection (a)(1) shall include a description of the 
approved life cycle sustainment plan for the Ready, Relevant Learning 
initiative, including with respect to each of the following:
            (1) Product support management.
            (2) Supply support.
            (3) Packaging, handling, storage, and transportation.
            (4) Maintenance planning and management.
            (5) Design interface.
            (6) Sustainment engineering.
            (7) Technical data.
            (8) Computer resources.
            (9) Facilities and infrastructure.
            (10) Manpower and personnel.
            (11) Support equipment.
            (12) Training and training support.
            (13) Governance, including the acquisition and program 
        management structure.
            (14) Such other elements in the life cycle sustainment of 
        the Ready, Relevant Learning initiative as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    (c) Report on Use of Readiness Assessment Teams.--The report 
required by subsection (a)(2) shall set forth the following:
            (1) A description and assessment of the extent to which the 
        Navy is currently using Engineering Readiness Assessment Teams 
        (ERAT) and Combat Systems Readiness Assessment Teams (CSRAT) to 
        conduct unit-level training and assistance in each capacity as 
        follows:
                    (A) To augment non-Ready, Relevant Learning 
                initiative training.
                    (B) As part of Ready, Relevant Learning initiative 
                training.
                    (C) To train students on legacy, obsolete, one of a 
                kind, or unique systems that are still widely used by 
                the Navy.
                    (D) To train students on military-specific systems 
                that are not found in the commercial maritime world.
            (2) A description and assessment of potential benefits, and 
        anticipated timelines and costs, in expanding Engineering 
        Readiness Assessment Team and Combat Systems Readiness 
        Assessment Team training in the capacities specified in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Such other matters in connection with the use of 
        readiness assessment teams in connection with the Ready, 
        Relevant Learning initiative as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.

SEC. 543. REPORT ON STANDARDIZATION AND POTENTIAL MERGER OF LAW 
              ENFORCEMENT TRAINING FOR MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL 
              ACROSS THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than June 8, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report on the standardization and 
potential merger of law enforcement training for military and civilian 
personnel across the Department of Defense, including training of 
military or civilian personnel of the Department designated in 
accordance with section 2762 of title 10, United States Code, to 
protect buildings, grounds, and property under the jurisdiction, 
custody, or control of the Department and the persons on such property.
    (b) Elements.--In developing the report required by subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall do, and include in the report the results of, the 
following:
            (1) Identify and assess current law enforcement training 
        courses, schools, and programs of the Armed Forces that have 
        the flexibility and capacity to support the training referred 
        to in subsection (a) through common training standards.
            (2) Identify and assess current Department law enforcement 
        training courses, schools, and programs that are affiliated 
        with or accredited by third parties (including both 
        governmental and private entities), including an assessment of 
        the value derived from such affiliation or accreditation to the 
        training referred to in subsection (a).
            (3) Identify emerging law enforcement training requirements 
        that are common among the Armed Forces and other Department law 
        enforcement components and are currently unmet by the Armed 
        Forces or such components.
            (4) Assess the feasibility, advisability, and suitability 
        of incorporating standardized and merged field and operational 
        training in military law enforcement mission areas, including 
        area security operations, law and order operations, internment 
        and resettlement operations, and police intelligence 
        operations, in the training provided to all Armed Forces and 
        other Department law enforcement components.
            (5) Identify and assess Department courses, programs, or 
        institutions with the capability to support law enforcement 
        training or information sharing between Department military and 
        civilian law enforcement components and State, county, and 
        local law enforcement agencies, with the capability to support 
        law enforcement components of the National Guard and other 
        reserve components of the Armed Forces, or with both such 
        capabilities.
            (6) Assess the feasibility, advisability, and suitability 
        of standardizing and merging the training referred to in 
        subsection (a) across the Department, including an assessment 
        of the costs of such standardization and merger.
            (7) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 544. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 
              COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES CULTURE 
              AND ETHICS.

    (a) Quarterly Reports Required.--Not later than March 1, 2021, and 
every 90 days thereafter through March 1, 2024, the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict shall, in 
coordination with the Commander of the United States Special Operations 
Command, submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
current status of the implementation of the actions recommended as a 
result of the Comprehensive Review of Special Operations Forces Culture 
and Ethics.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) A list of the actions required as of the date of such 
        report to complete full implementation of each of the 16 
        actions recommended by the Comprehensive Review referred to in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) An identification of the office responsible for 
        completing each action listed pursuant to paragraph (1), and an 
        estimated timeline for completion of such action.
            (3) If completion of any action listed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) requires resources or actions for which 
        authorization by statute is required, a recommendation for 
        legislative action for such authorization.
            (4) Any other matters the Assistant Secretary or the 
        Commander considers appropriate.

SEC. 545. INFORMATION ON NOMINATIONS AND APPLICATIONS FOR MILITARY 
              SERVICE ACADEMIES.

    (a) Report on Congressional Nominations Portal.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Superintendents of the military service 
        academies, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth 
        an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of a uniform 
        online portal for all military service academies that enables 
        Members of Congress to nominate individuals for appointment to 
        each academy through a secure website.
            (2) Information collection and reporting.--For purposes of 
        preparing the report required by paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall treat the online portal described in that paragraph as 
        permitting the collection, from each Member of Congress, of the 
        demographic information described in subsection (b) for each 
        individual nominated by the Member.
            (3) Availability of information.--For purposes of preparing 
        the report, the Secretary shall treat the online portal as 
        permitting Members of Congress and their designees to view past 
        nomination records for all application cycles.
            (4) Matters in connection with establishment of portal.--If 
        the Secretary determines that the online portal is feasible and 
        advisable, the report shall include--
                    (A) a comprehensive description of the online 
                portal; and
                    (B) such recommendations for legislative and 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate to establish and maintain the online 
                portal.
    (b) Standard Classifications for Collection of Demographic Data.--
            (1) Standards required.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Superintendents of the military service 
        academies, establish standard classifications that cadets, 
        midshipmen, and applicants to the academies may use to self-
        identify gender, race, and ethnicity and to provide other 
        demographic information in connection with admission to or 
        enrollment in an academy.
            (2) Consistency with omb guidance.--The standard 
        classifications established under paragraph (1) shall be 
        consistent with the standard classifications specified in 
        Office of Management and Budget Directive No. 15 (pertaining to 
        race and ethnic standards for Federal statistics and 
        administrative reporting) or any successor directive.
            (3) Incorporation into applications and records.--Not later 
        than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall incorporate the standard classifications 
        established under paragraph (1) into--
                    (A) applications for admission to the military 
                service academies; and
                    (B) the military personnel records of cadets and 
                midshipmen enrolled in such academies.
    (c) Military Service Academy Defined.--In this section, the term 
``military service academy'' means--
            (1) the United States Military Academy;
            (2) the United States Naval Academy; and
            (3) the United States Air Force Academy.

SEC. 546. PILOT PROGRAMS IN CONNECTION WITH SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' 
              TRAINING CORPS UNITS AT HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND 
              UNIVERSITIES AND MINORITY INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Pilot Programs Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
out either or both of the pilot programs as follows:
            (1) A pilot program, with elements as provided for in 
        subsection (c), at covered institutions in order to assess the 
        feasibility and advisability of mechanisms to reduce barriers 
        to participation in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        at such institutions by creating partnerships between satellite 
        or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps units at 
        such institutions and military installations.
            (2) A pilot program, with elements as provided for in 
        subsection (d), in order to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of the provision of financial assistance to 
        members of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps at 
        covered institutions for participation in flight training.
    (b) Duration.--The duration of each pilot program under subsection 
(a) may not exceed five years.
    (c) Pilot Program on Partnerships Between Satellite or Extension 
SROTC Units and Military Installations.--
            (1) Participating institutions.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall carry out the pilot program authorized by subsection 
        (a)(1) at not fewer than five covered institutions selected by 
        the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.
            (2) Requirements for selection.--Each covered institution 
        selected by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program 
        authorized by subsection (a)(1) shall--
                    (A) currently maintain a satellite or extension 
                Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit under 
                chapter 103 of title 10, United States Code, that is 
                located more than 20 miles from the host unit of such 
                unit; or
                    (B) establish and maintain a satellite or extension 
                Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit that meets 
                the requirements in subparagraph (A).
            (3) Preference in selection of institutions.--In selecting 
        covered institutions under this subsection for participation in 
        the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(1), the 
        Secretary shall give preference to covered institutions that 
        are located within 20 miles of a military installation of the 
        same Armed Force as the host unit of the Senior Reserve 
        Officers' Training Corp of the covered institution concerned.
            (4) Partnership activities.--The activities conducted under 
        the pilot program authorized by subsection (a)(1) between a 
        satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
        unit and the military installation concerned shall include such 
        activities designed to reduce barriers to participation in the 
        Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps at the covered 
        institution concerned as the Secretary considers appropriate, 
        including measures to mitigate travel time and expenses in 
        connection with receipt of Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
        Corps instruction.
    (d) Pilot Program on Financial Assistance for SROTC Members for 
Flight Training.--
            (1) Eligibility for participation by srotc members.--A 
        member of a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit at a 
        covered institution may participate in the pilot program 
        authorized by subsection (a)(2) if the member meets such 
        academic requirements at the covered institution, and such 
        other requirements, as the Secretary shall establish for 
        purposes of the pilot program.
            (2) Preference in selection of participants.--In selecting 
        members under this subsection for participation in the pilot 
        program authorized by subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall 
        give a preference to members who will pursue flight training 
        under the pilot program at a covered institution.
            (3) Financial assistance for flight training.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may provide any 
                member of a Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps who 
                participates in the pilot program authorized by 
                subsection (a)(2) financial assistance to defray, 
                whether in whole or in part, the charges and fees 
                imposed on the member for flight training.
                    (B) Flight training.--Financial assistance may be 
                used under subparagraph (A) for a course of flight 
                training only if the course meets Federal Aviation 
                Administration standards and is approved by the Federal 
                Aviation Administration and the applicable State 
                approving agency.
                    (C) Use.--Financial assistance received by a member 
                under subparagraph (A) may be used only to defray the 
                charges and fees imposed on the member as described in 
                that subparagraph.
                    (D) Cessation of eligibility.--Financial assistance 
                may not be provided to a member under subparagraph (A) 
                as follows:
                            (i) If the member ceases to meet the 
                        academic and other requirements established 
                        pursuant to paragraph (1).
                            (ii) If the member ceases to be a member of 
                        the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
    (e) Evaluation Metrics.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of the pilot programs under 
subsection (a).
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        commencement of the pilot programs under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the pilot programs. The report shall include the 
        following:
                    (A) A description of each pilot program, including 
                in the case of the pilot program under subsection 
                (a)(2) the requirements established pursuant to 
                subsection (d)(1).
                    (B) The evaluation metrics established under 
                subsection (e).
                    (C) Such other matters relating to the pilot 
                programs as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Annual report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year in which the Secretary carries out the pilot 
        programs, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the pilot programs during such fiscal year. Each 
        report shall include, for the fiscal year covered by such 
        report, the following:
                    (A) In the case of the pilot program under 
                subsection (a)(1), a description of the partnerships 
                between satellite or extension Senior Reserve Officers' 
                Training Corps units and military installations under 
                the pilot program.
                    (B) In the case of the pilot program under 
                subsection (a)(2), the following:
                            (i) The number of members of Senior Reserve 
                        Officers' Training Corps units at covered 
                        institutions selected for purposes of the pilot 
                        program, including the number of such members 
                        participating in the pilot program.
                            (ii) The number of recipients of financial 
                        assistance provided under the pilot program, 
                        including the number who--
                                    (I) completed a ground school 
                                course of instruction in connection 
                                with obtaining a private pilot's 
                                certificate;
                                    (II) completed flight training, and 
                                the type of training, certificate, or 
                                both received;
                                    (III) were selected for a pilot 
                                training slot in the Armed Forces;
                                    (IV) initiated pilot training in 
                                the Armed Forces; or
                                    (V) successfully completed pilot 
                                training in the Armed Forces.
                            (iii) The amount of financial assistance 
                        provided under the pilot program, broken out by 
                        covered institution, course of study, and such 
                        other measures as the Secretary considers 
                        appropriate.
                    (C) Data collected in accordance with the 
                evaluation metrics established under subsection (e).
            (3) Final report.--Not later than 180 days prior to the 
        completion of the pilot programs, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot programs. The report 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the pilot programs.
                    (B) An assessment of the effectiveness of each 
                pilot program.
                    (C) A description of the cost of each pilot 
                program, and an estimate of the cost of making each 
                pilot program permanent.
                    (D) An estimate of the cost of expanding each pilot 
                program throughout all eligible Senior Reserve 
                Officers' Training Corps units.
                    (E) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of the pilot programs, including 
                recommendations for extending or making permanent the 
                authority for each pilot program.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``covered institution'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 262(g)(2) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92).
            (2) The term ``flight training'' means a course of 
        instruction toward obtaining any of the following:
                    (A) A private pilot's certificate.
                    (B) A commercial pilot certificate.
                    (C) A certified flight instructor certificate.
                    (D) A multi-crew pilot's license.
                    (E) A flight instrument rating.
                    (F) Any other certificate, rating, or pilot 
                privilege the Secretary considers appropriate for 
                purposes of this section.
            (3) The term ``military installation'' means an 
        installation of the Department of Defense for the regular 
        components of the Armed Forces.

SEC. 547. EXPANSION OF JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS PROGRAM.

    (a) Expansion of JROTC Curriculum.--Section 2031(a)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after ``service to the 
United States'' the following: ``(including an introduction to service 
opportunities in military, national, and public service)''.
    (b) Plan to Increase Number of JROTC Units.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
departments, develop and implement a plan to establish and support not 
fewer than 6,000 units of the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
by September 30, 2031.

SEC. 548. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STARBASE PROGRAM.

    Section 2193b(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American 
Samoa,'' before ``and Guam''.

                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

SEC. 551. AWARD OR PRESENTATION OF DECORATIONS FAVORABLY RECOMMENDED 
              FOLLOWING DETERMINATION ON MERITS OF PROPOSALS FOR 
              DECORATIONS NOT PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED IN A TIMELY FASHION.

    (a) Award or Presentation Authorized.--Section 1130 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d)(1) A decoration may be awarded or presented following the 
submission of a favorable recommendation for the award or presentation 
of the decoration under subsection (b).
    ``(2) An award or presentation of a decoration under paragraph (1) 
may not occur before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date 
of the submission under subsection (b) of the favorable recommendation 
regarding the award or presentation of the decoration.
    ``(3) The authority to make an award or presentation of a 
decoration under this subsection shall apply notwithstanding any 
limitation described in subsection (a).''.
    (b) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 1130 of such 
        title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1130. Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously 
              submitted in timely fashion: procedures for review and 
              award or presentation''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 57 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1130 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1130. Consideration of proposals for decorations not previously 
                            submitted in timely fashion: procedures for 
                            review and award or presentation.''.

SEC. 552. HONORARY PROMOTION MATTERS.

    (a) Honorary Promotions on Initiative of DoD.--Chapter 80 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1563 the 
following new section:
``Sec. 1563a. Honorary promotions on the initiative of the Department 
              of Defense
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary may make an honorary promotion 
(whether or not posthumous) of a former member or retired member of the 
armed forces to any grade not exceeding the grade of major general, 
rear admiral (upper half), or an equivalent grade in the Space Force if 
the Secretary determines that the promotion is merited.
    ``(2) The authority to make an honorary promotion under this 
subsection shall apply notwithstanding that the promotion is not 
otherwise authorized by law.
    ``(b) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary may not make an honorary 
promotion pursuant to subsection (a) until 60 days after the date on 
which the Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a notice of the determination 
to make the promotion, including a detailed discussion of the rationale 
supporting the determination.
    ``(c) Notice of Promotion.--Upon making an honorary promotion 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall expeditiously notify 
the former member or retired member concerned, or the next of kin of 
such former member or retired member if such former member or retired 
member is deceased, of the promotion.
    ``(d) Nature of Promotion.--Any promotion pursuant to this section 
is honorary, and shall not affect the pay, retired pay, or other 
benefits from the United States to which the former member or retired 
member concerned is entitled or would have been entitled based on the 
military service of such former member or retired member, nor affect 
any benefits to which any other person is or may become entitled based 
on the military service of such former member or retired member.''.
    (b) Modification of Authorities on Review of Proposals From 
Congress.--
            (1) Standardization of authorities with authorities on dod 
        initiative.--Section 1563 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``the posthumous or honorary promotion or 
                        appointment of a member or former member of the 
                        armed forces, or any other person considered 
                        qualified,'' and inserting ``the honorary 
                        promotion (whether or not posthumous) of a 
                        former member or retired member of the armed 
                        forces''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``the posthumous or honorary promotion or 
                        appointment'' and inserting ``the promotion''; 
                        and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``the posthumous 
                or honorary promotion or appointment'' and inserting 
                ``the honorary promotion''.
            (2) Authority to make honorary promotions following review 
        of proposals.--Such section is further amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (d); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following 
                new subsection (c):
    ``(c) Authority To Make.--(1) Under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Defense may make an honorary 
promotion (whether or not posthumous) of a former member or retired 
member of the armed forces to any grade not exceeding the grade of 
major general, rear admiral (upper half), or an equivalent grade in the 
Space Force following the submittal of the determination of the 
Secretary concerned under subsection (b) in connection with the 
proposal for the promotion if the determination is to approve the 
making of the promotion.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense may not make an honorary promotion 
under this subsection until 60 days after the date on which the 
Secretary concerned submits the determination in connection with the 
proposal for the promotion under subsection (b), and the detailed 
rationale supporting the determination as described in that subsection, 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives and the requesting Member in accordance with that 
subsection.
    ``(3) The authority to make an honorary promotion under this 
subsection shall apply notwithstanding that the promotion is not 
otherwise authorized by law.
    ``(4) Any promotion pursuant to this subsection is honorary, and 
shall not affect the pay, retired pay, or other benefits from the 
United States to which the former member or retired member concerned is 
or would have been entitled based upon the military service of such 
former member or retired member, nor affect any benefits to which any 
other person may become entitled based on the military service of such 
former member or retired member.''.
            (3) Heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1563. Consideration of proposals from Members of Congress for 
              honorary promotions: procedures for review and 
              promotion''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 80 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 1563 and inserting the following new items:

``1563. Consideration of proposals from Members of Congress for 
                            honorary promotions: procedures for review 
                            and promotion.
``1563a. Honorary promotions on the initiative of the Department of 
                            Defense.''.

Subtitle G--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

             PART I--DEFENSE DEPENDENTS' EDUCATION MATTERS

SEC. 561. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
              AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.

    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2021 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $50,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (b) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
7013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).

SEC. 562. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 301 and available for operation 
and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for payments 
under section 363 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 
114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 U.S.C. 7703a).
    (b) Additional Amount.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2021 pursuant to section 301 and available for 
operation and maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in 
the funding table in section 4301, $10,000,000 shall be available for 
use by the Secretary of Defense to make payments to local educational 
agencies determined by the Secretary to have higher concentrations of 
military children with severe disabilities.
    (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary shall 
brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on the Department's evaluation of each local 
educational agency with higher concentrations of military children with 
severe disabilities and subsequent determination of the amounts of 
impact aid each such agency shall receive.

SEC. 563. STAFFING OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY SCHOOLS 
              TO MAINTAIN MAXIMUM STUDENT-TO-TEACHER RATIOS.

    (a) In General.--The Department of Defense Education Activity 
(DoDEA) shall staff elementary and secondary schools operated by the 
Activity so as to maintain, to the extent practicable, student-to-
teacher ratios that do not exceed the maximum student-to-teacher ratios 
specified in subsection (b).
    (b) Maximum Student-to-teacher Ratios.--The maximum student-to-
teacher ratios specified in this subsection are the following:
            (1) For each of grades kindergarten through 3, a ratio of 
        18 students to 1 teacher (18:1).
            (2) For each of grades 4 through 12, a ratio equal to the 
        average student-to-teacher ratio for such grade among all 
        Department of Defense Education Activity schools during the 
        2019-2020 academic year.
    (c) Sunset.--The requirement to staff schools in accordance with 
subsection (a) shall expire at the end of the 2023-2024 academic year 
of the Department of Defense Education Activity.

SEC. 564. MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH FREE APPROPRIATE PUBLIC EDUCATION 
              FOR DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WITH 
              SPECIAL NEEDS.

    (a) Information on Disputes Regarding Receipt of Free Appropriate 
Public Education by Special Needs Dependents.--
            (1) In general.--Each Secretary of a military department 
        shall collect and maintain information on special education 
        disputes filed by members of the Armed Forces under the 
        jurisdiction of such Secretary.
            (2) Information.--The information collected and maintained 
        pursuant to this subsection shall include the following:
                    (A) The number of special education disputes filed.
                    (B) The outcome or disposition of the disputes.
            (3) Source of information.--The information collected and 
        maintained pursuant to this subsection shall be derived from 
        the following:
                    (A) Records and reports of case managers and 
                navigators under the Exceptional Family Member Program 
                (EFMP) of the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Reports of members of the Armed Forces 
                concerned to installation or other military leadership.
                    (C) Such other sources as the Secretary of the 
                military department concerned considers appropriate.
            (4) Annual reports.-- Each Secretary of a military 
        department shall submit each year to the Office of Special 
        Needs of the Department of Defense a report on the information 
        collected by such Secretary pursuant to this subsection during 
        the preceding year.
    (b) Comptroller General of the United States Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study on the following:
                    (A) The consequences for a State or local 
                educational agency of a finding of failure to provide a 
                free appropriate public education to a military 
                dependent.
                    (B) The manner in which local educational agencies 
                with military families use the following:
                            (i) Funds received under section 7003(d) of 
                        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
                        1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(d)).
                            (ii) Funds authorized to be appropriated by 
                        annual national defense authorization Acts and 
                        made available for impact aid for child with 
                        severe disabilities under section 363 of the 
                        Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
                        Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (20 U.S.C. 7703a).
                            (iii) Funds authorized to be appropriated 
                        by annual national defense authorization Acts 
                        and made available for assistance to schools 
                        with significant number of military dependent 
                        students under subsection (a) of section 572 of 
                        the National Defense Authorization Act for 
                        Fiscal Year 2006 (20 U.S.C. 7703b).
                    (C) The efficacy of attorney and other legal 
                support for military families in special education 
                disputes.
                    (D) The standardization of policies and guidance 
                for School Liaison Officers between the Office of 
                Special Needs of the Department of Defense and the 
                military departments, and the efficacy of such policies 
                and guidance.
                    (E) The improvements of family support programs of 
                the Office of Special Needs, and of each military 
                department, in light of the recommendations of the 
                Comptroller General in the report entitled ``DOD Should 
                Improve Its Oversight of the Exceptional Family Member 
                Program'', GAO-18-348.
            (2) Recommendations.--In conducting the study, the 
        Comptroller General shall develop recommendations on the 
        following:
                    (A) Improvements and enhancements to oversight and 
                enforcement of compliance by local educational agencies 
                with requirements for the provision of a free 
                appropriate public education to military dependents 
                with special needs.
                    (B) Improvements to the policies of the Office of 
                Special Needs, and of each military department, with 
                respect to the standardization and efficacy of policies 
                and programs for military dependents with special 
                needs.
            (3) Deadline for completion.--The Comptroller General shall 
        complete the study by not later than March 31, 2021.
            (4) Briefing and report.--Upon completion of the study, the 
        Comptroller General shall brief the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the 
        results of the study, and shall submit to such committees a 
        report on such results.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``free appropriate public education'' includes 
        appropriate special education and related services required 
        under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1400 et seq.)
            (2) The term ``local educational agency'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (3) The term ``special education dispute'' means a 
        complaint filed regarding the education provided a child with a 
        disability (as defined in section 602 of the Individuals with 
        Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401), including a 
        complaint filed in accordance with section 615 or 639 of such 
        Act (20 U.S.C. 1415, 1439).

SEC. 565. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANDED ELIGIBILITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY VIRTUAL HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAM.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
        pilot program on permitting dependents of members of the Armed 
        Forces on active duty to enroll in the Department of Defense 
        Education Activity Virtual High School program (in this section 
        referred to as the ``DVHS program'').
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the pilot program shall be 
        as follows:
                    (A) To evaluate the feasibility and scalability of 
                the DVHS program.
                    (B) To assess the impact of expanded enrollment in 
                the DVHS program under the pilot program on military 
                and family readiness.
            (3) Duration.--The duration of the pilot program shall be 
        four academic years.
    (b) Participants.--
            (1) In general.--Participants in the pilot program shall be 
        selected by the Secretary from among dependents of members of 
        the Armed Forces on active duty who--
                    (A) are in a grade 9 through 12;
                    (B) are currently ineligible to enroll in the DVHS 
                program; and
                    (C) either--
                            (i) require supplementary courses to meet 
                        graduation requirements in the current State of 
                        residence; or
                            (ii) otherwise demonstrate to the Secretary 
                        a clear need to participate in the DVHS 
                        program.
            (2) Preference in selection.--In selecting participants in 
        the pilot program, the Secretary shall afford a preference to 
        the following:
                    (A) Dependents who reside in a rural area.
                    (B) Dependents who are home-schooled students.
            (3) Limitations.--The total number of course enrollments 
        per academic year authorized under the pilot program may not 
        exceed 400 course enrollments. No single dependent 
        participating in the pilot program may take more than two 
        courses per academic year under the pilot program.
    (c) Reports.--
            (1) Interim report.--Not later than two years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives an interim report on the pilot program.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the committees of Congress referred to in paragraph (1) a final 
        report on the pilot programs.
            (3) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the demographics of the 
                dependents participating in the pilot program through 
                the date of such report.
                    (B) Data on, and an assessment of, student 
                performance in virtual coursework by dependents 
                participating in the pilot program over the duration of 
                the pilot program.
                    (C) Such recommendation as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate on whether to make the pilot program 
                permanent.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``rural area'' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 520 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490).
            (2) The term ``home-schooled student'' means a student in a 
        grade equivalent to grade 9 through 12 who receives educational 
        instruction at home or by other non-traditional means outside 
        of a public or private school system, either all or most of the 
        time.

SEC. 566. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR ENROLLMENT AT 
              DOMESTIC DEPENDENT ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--Beginning not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall carry out a pilot program under which a dependent of a full-time, 
active-duty member of the Armed Forces may enroll in a covered DODEA 
school at the military installation to which the member is assigned, on 
a space-available basis as described in subsection (c), without regard 
to whether the member resides on the installation as described in 
2164(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the pilot program under this section 
are--
            (1) to evaluate the feasibility and advisability of 
        expanding enrollment in covered DODEA schools; and
            (2) to determine how increased access to such schools will 
        affect military and family readiness.
    (c) Enrollment on Space-available Basis.--A student participating 
in the pilot program under this section may be enrolled in a covered 
DODEA school only if the school has the capacity to accept the student, 
as determined by the Director of the Department of Defense Education 
Activity.
    (d) Locations.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the pilot 
program under this section at not more than four military installations 
at which covered DODEA schools are located. The Secretary shall select 
military installations for participation in the pilot program based 
on--
            (1) the readiness needs of the Secretary of a the military 
        department concerned; and
            (2) the capacity of the DODEA schools located at the 
        installation to accept additional students, as determined by 
        the Director of the Department of Defense Education Activity.
    (e) Termination.--The authority to carry out the pilot program 
under this section shall terminate four years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (f) Covered DODEA School Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered DODEA school'' means a domestic dependent elementary or 
secondary school operated by the Department of Defense Education 
Activity that--
            (1) has been established on or before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) is located in the continental United States.

SEC. 567. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON THE 
              STRUCTURAL CONDITION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION 
              ACTIVITY SCHOOLS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
forth an assessment by the Comptroller General of the structural 
condition of schools of the Department of Defense Education Activity, 
both within the continental United States (CONUS) and outside the 
continental United States (OCONUS).
    (b) Virtual Schools.--The report shall include an assessment of the 
virtual infrastructure or other means by which students attend 
Department of Defense Education Activity schools that have no physical 
structure, including the satisfaction of the military families 
concerned with such infrastructure or other means.

               PART II--MILITARY FAMILY READINESS MATTERS

SEC. 571. RESPONSIBILITY FOR ALLOCATION OF CERTAIN FUNDS FOR MILITARY 
              CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.

    Section 1791 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Policy.--'' before ``It is the 
        policy''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Responsibility for Allocations of Certain Funds.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall be responsible for the allocation of Office 
of the Secretary of Defense level funds for military child development 
programs for children from birth through 12 years of age, and may not 
delegate such responsibility to the military departments.''.

SEC. 572. IMPROVEMENTS TO EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM.

    Section 1781c of title 10, United States Code is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``enhance'' and 
        inserting ``standardize, enhance,'';
            (2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``and standard'' 
        after ``comprehensive'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``update from 
                time to time'' and inserting ``regularly update'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(C) Ability to request a second review of the 
                approved assignment within or outside the continental 
                United States if the member believes the location is 
                inappropriate for the member's family and would cause 
                undue hardship.
                    ``(D) Protection from having a medical 
                recommendation for an approved assignment overriden by 
                the commanding officer.
                    ``(E) Ability to request continuation of location 
                when there is a documented substantial risk of 
                transferring medical care or educational services to a 
                new provider or school at the specific time of 
                permanent change of station.
                    ``(F) If an order for assignment is declined for a 
                military family with special needs, the member will 
                receive a reason for the decline of that order.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end the 
                following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(H) Procedures to right-size the Department's 
                Exceptional Family Member Program to ensure efficient 
                and effective enrollment, for sufficient staffing 
                dedicated to providing family support services, to 
                include comprehensive training, education and outreach 
                services, and sufficient oversight and administrative 
                support for effective program operation.
                    ``(I) Requirements to prohibit disenrollment from 
                the Exceptional Family Member Program unless there is 
                new supporting medical or educational information that 
                indicates the original condition is no longer present, 
                and to track disenrollment data per military 
                service.'';
            (4) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as 
        subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
            (5) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(f) Metrics.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement 
performance metrics for measuring, across the Department and with 
respect to each military department, the following:
            ``(1) Assignment coordination and support for military 
        families with special needs, including a systematic process for 
        evaluating each military department's program for the support 
        of military families with special needs.
            ``(2) The reassignment of military families with special 
        needs, including how often members request reassignments, for 
        what reasons, and from what military installations.
            ``(3) The level of satisfaction of military families with 
        special needs with the family and medical support they are 
        provided.''.

SEC. 573. PROCEDURES OF THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL NEEDS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT 
              OF INDIVIDUALIZED SERVICES PLANS FOR MILITARY FAMILIES 
              WITH SPECIAL NEEDS.

    Section 1781c(d)(4) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
section 572(3)(C) of this Act, is further amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``of an individualized 
        services plan (medical and educational)'' and inserting ``by an 
        appropriate office of an individualized services plan (whether 
        medical, educational, or both)'';
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (G), (H), and (I) as 
        subparagraph (H), (I), and (J), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new 
        paragraph (G):
            ``(G) Procedures for the development of an individualized 
        services plan for military family members with special needs 
        who have requested family support services and have a completed 
        family needs assessment.''.

SEC. 574. RESTATEMENT AND CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO REIMBURSE 
              MEMBERS FOR SPOUSE RELICENSING COSTS PURSUANT TO A 
              PERMANENT CHANGE OF STATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 453 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Reimbursement of Qualifying Spouse Relicensing Costs Incident 
to a Member's Permanent Change of Station or Assignment.--(1) From 
amounts otherwise made available for a fiscal year to provide travel 
and transportation allowances under this chapter, the Secretary 
concerned may reimburse a member of the armed forces for qualified 
relicensing costs of the spouse of the member when--
            ``(A) the member is reassigned, either as a permanent 
        change of station or permanent change of assignment, between 
        duty stations located in separate jurisdictions with unique 
        licensing or certification requirements and authorities; and
            ``(B) the movement of the member's dependents is authorized 
        at the expense of the United States under this section as part 
        of the reassignment.
    ``(2) Reimbursement provided to a member under this subsection may 
not exceed $1000 in connection with each reassignment described in 
paragraph (1).
    ``(3) No reimbursement may be provided under this subsection for 
qualified relicensing costs paid or incurred after December 31, 2024.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the term `qualified relicensing costs' 
means costs, including exam, continuing education courses, and 
registration fees, incurred by the spouse of a member if--
            ``(A) the spouse was licensed or certified in a profession 
        during the member's previous duty assignment and requires a new 
        license or certification to engage in that profession in a new 
        jurisdiction because of movement described in paragraph (1)(B) 
        in connection with the member's change in duty location 
        pursuant to reassignment described in paragraph (1)(A); and
            ``(B) the costs were incurred or paid to secure or maintain 
        the license or certification from the new jurisdiction in 
        connection with such reassignment.''.
    (b) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 476 of such title is 
amended by striking subsection (p).

SEC. 575. IMPROVEMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TRACKING OF AND 
              RESPONSE TO INCIDENTS OF CHILD ABUSE INVOLVING MILITARY 
              DEPENDENTS ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) Improvements Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, consistent 
        with recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United 
        States in Government Accountability Office report GA0-20-110, 
        take actions in accordance with this section in order to 
        improve the efforts of the Department of Defense to track and 
        respond to incidents of child abuse involving dependents of 
        members of the Armed Forces that occur on military 
        installations (in this section referred to as ``covered 
        incidents of child abuse'').
            (2) Child abuse.--For purposes of this section, child abuse 
        includes any abuse of a child, including sexual abuse, 
        emotional abuse, and neglect.
    (b) Data Collection and Tracking of Incidents of Child Abuse.--
            (1) Tracking of non-caregiver abuse.--The Secretary of 
        Defense shall establish a process for the Department of Defense 
        Family Advocacy Program to track reported covered incidents of 
        child abuse in which the alleged offender is not a parent, 
        guardian, or someone in a caregiving role at the time of the 
        incident. The information so tracked shall comport with the 
        information tracked by the Department of Defense in reported 
        covered incidents of child abuse in which the alleged offender 
        is a parent, guardian, or someone in a caregiving role at the 
        time of the incident.
            (2) Centralized database for tracking of incidents.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall develop and 
                maintain in the Department of Defense a centralized 
                database to track information across the Department on 
                all covered incidents of child abuse that are reported 
                to the Family Advocacy Program or investigated by a 
                military criminal investigation organization, 
                regardless of whether the alleged offender was another 
                child, an adult, or someone in a non-caregiving role at 
                the time of an incident.
                    (B) Elements.--The centralized database required by 
                this paragraph shall include, for each incident within 
                the database, the following:
                            (i) Information pertinent to a 
                        determination by the Family Advocacy Program 
                        whether such incident meets the criteria of the 
                        Department for treatment as an incident of 
                        child abuse.
                            (ii) The results of any investigation of 
                        such incident by a military criminal 
                        investigation organization.
                            (iii) Information on the ultimate 
                        disposition of the incident, if any, including 
                        any administrative or prosecutorial action 
                        taken.
                    (C) Annual reports on information.--The information 
                collected and maintained in the centralized database 
                shall be reported on an annual basis as part of the 
                annual reports from the Family Advocacy Program on 
                child abuse and domestic abuse in the military as 
                required by section 574 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-
                328; 130 Stat. 2141).
                    (D) Briefings.--Not later than March 31, 2021, and 
                every six months thereafter until the centralized 
                database required by this paragraph is fully 
                operational, the Secretary shall brief the Committees 
                on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
                Representatives on the status of the database.
            (3) Department of defense education activity guidance.--The 
        Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) shall issue 
        clarifications of its guidance on the incidents of child-on-
        child abuse that qualify as serious incidents for purposes of 
        requirements for the reporting of such serious incidents by 
        school administrators to Activity leadership.
    (c) Response Procedures.--
            (1) Incident determination committee membership.--The 
        Department of Defense Family Advocacy Program shall ensure that 
        the voting membership of each Incident Determination Committee 
        on a military installation includes medical personnel with the 
        requisite knowledge and expertise to determine whether a 
        reported covered incident of abuse meets the criteria of the 
        Department of Defense for treatment as child abuse.
            (2) Screening reported incidents of child abuse.--
                    (A) Development of standardized process.--The 
                Department of Defense Family Advocacy Program shall 
                develop a standardized process by which the Family 
                Advocacy Programs of the military departments screen 
                reported covered incidents of child abuse to determine 
                whether to present such incident to an Incident 
                Determination Committee.
                    (B) Monitoring.--The Secretary of each military 
                department shall develop a process to monitor the 
                manner in which reported covered incidents of child 
                abuse are screened by each installation under the 
                jurisdiction of such Secretary in order to ensure that 
                such screening complies with the standardized screening 
                process developed pursuant to subparagraph (A).
            (3) Required notifications.--
                    (A) Documentation.--The Secretary of each military 
                department shall require that installation Family 
                Advocacy Programs and military criminal investigation 
                organizations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary 
                document in their respective databases the date on 
                which they notified the other of a reported covered 
                incident of child abuse.
                    (B) Oversight.--The Secretary of each military 
                department shall require that the Family Advocacy 
                Program of such military department, and the 
                headquarters of the military criminal investigation 
                organizations of such military department, to develop 
                processes to oversee the documentation of notifications 
                required by subparagraph (A) in order to ensure that 
                such notifications occur on a consistent basis at 
                installation level.
            (4) Certified pediatric sexual assault forensic 
        examiners.--
                    (A) Geographic regions for examiners.--The Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall 
                specify geographic regions in which military families 
                reside for purposes of the availability of and access 
                to certified pediatric sexual assault examiners in such 
                regions.
                    (B) Availability.--The Under Secretary shall ensure 
                that--
                            (i) one or more certified pediatric sexual 
                        assault examiners are located in each 
                        geographic region specified pursuant to 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) examiners so located serve as 
                        certified pediatric sexual assault examiners 
                        throughout such region, without regard to Armed 
                        Force or installation.
            (5) Removal of children from unsafe homes overseas.--The 
        Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
        Secretaries of the military departments, issue policy that 
        clarifies and standardizes across the Armed Forces the 
        circumstances under which a commander may remove a child from a 
        potentially unsafe home at an installation overseas.
            (6) Resource guide for families affected by child abuse.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of each military 
                department shall develop and maintain a comprehensive 
                guide on resources available through the Department of 
                Defense and such military department for military 
                families under this jurisdiction of such Secretary who 
                are affected by child abuse.
                    (B) Elements.--Each guide under this paragraph 
                shall include the following:
                            (i) Information on the response processes 
                        of the Family Advocacy Programs and military 
                        criminal investigation organizations of the 
                        military department concerned.
                            (ii) Lists of available support services, 
                        such as legal, medical, and victim advocacy 
                        services, through the Department of Defense and 
                        the military department concerned.
                    (C) Distribution.--A resource guide under this 
                paragraph shall be presented to a military family by an 
                installation Family Advocacy Program and military 
                criminal investigation personnel at the time a covered 
                incident of child abuse involving a child in such 
                family is reported.
                    (D) Availability on internet.--A current version of 
                each resource guide under this paragraph shall be 
                available to the public on an Internet website of the 
                military department concerned available to the public.
    (d) Coordination and Collaboration With Non-military Resources.--
            (1) Coordination with states.--The Secretary of Defense 
        shall--
                    (A) continue the outreach efforts of the Department 
                of Defense to the States in order to ensure that States 
                are notified when a member of the Armed Forces or a 
                military dependent is involved in a reported incident 
                of child abuse off a military installation; and
                    (B) increase efforts at information sharing between 
                the Department and the States on such incidents of 
                child abuse, including entry into memoranda of 
                understanding with State child welfare agencies on 
                information sharing in connection with such incidents.
            (2) Collaboration with national children's alliance.--
                    (A) Memoranda of understanding.--The Secretary of 
                each military department shall seek to enter into a 
                memorandum of understanding with the National 
                Children's Alliance under which--
                            (i) the children's advocacy center services 
                        of the Alliance are available to all 
                        installations in the continental United States 
                        under the jurisdiction of such Secretary; and
                            (ii) members of the Armed Forces under the 
                        jurisdiction of such Secretary are made aware 
                        of the nature and availability of such 
                        services.
                    (B) Participation of certain entities.--Each 
                memorandum of understanding under this paragraph shall 
                provide for the appropriate participation of the Family 
                Advocacy Program and military criminal investigation 
                organizations of the military department concerned in 
                activities under such memorandum of understanding.
                    (C) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                each military department shall provide to the 
                Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives a briefing on the status of 
                the development of a memorandum of understanding with 
                the National Children's Alliance under this paragraph, 
                together with information on which installations, if 
                any, under the jurisdiction of such Secretary have 
                entered into a written agreement with a local 
                children's advocacy center with respect to child abuse 
                on such installations.

SEC. 576. MILITARY CHILD CARE AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER MATTERS.

    (a) Center Fees Matters.--Section 1793 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) Liberal Issuance of Hardship Waivers.--The regulations 
prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) shall require that installation 
commanders issue waivers of fees otherwise established under the 
regulations for inability to pay (commonly referred to as `hardship 
waivers') on a liberal basis in a manner consistent (as specified by 
the Secretary in such regulations) with ensuring that fees collected 
pursuant to subsection (a) meet the operating expenses of the child 
development centers concerned.
    ``(d) Family Discount.--In the case of a family with two or more 
children attending a child development center, the regulations 
prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) shall require that installations 
commanders charge a fee for attendance at the center of any child of 
the family after the first child of the family in amount equal to 85 
percent of the amount of the fee otherwise chargeable for the 
attendance of such child at the center.''.
    (b) Child Care Fee Assistance Programs Throughout the Armed 
Forces.--
            (1) Programs authorized.--Each Secretary of a military 
        department may carry out a program for each Armed Force under 
        the jurisdiction of such Secretary under which a member of the 
        Armed Forces who is obtaining child care services from a 
        civilian child care services provider located off a military 
        installation is paid (subject to any limitation established by 
        such Secretary) a monthly amount equal to the amount, if any, 
        by which--
                    (A) the monthly amount charged by such provider for 
                such services; exceeds
                    (B) the monthly amount the military department 
                concerned pays or otherwise provides members at such 
                installation for child care services on such 
                installation.
            (2) Model.--Any program carried out pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) shall be modeled after the Army Fee Assistance Program, and 
        incorporate such modifications to that Program as the Secretary 
        of the military department concerned considers appropriate.
            (3) Secretary of defense approval.--Any program of an Armed 
        Force under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the approval of 
        the Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Additional Actions To Obtain Qualified Child Care Employees.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1792 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (e); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (c) the following 
                new subsection (d):
    ``(d) Additional Actions To Obtain Qualified Employees.--Each 
Secretary of a military department may, with the approval of the 
Secretary of Defense, take actions in addition to actions authorized by 
subsection (c) to provide military child development centers under the 
jurisdiction of such Secretary with a qualified and stable civilian 
workforce, including actions as follows:
            ``(1) Enhanced marketing and recruitment for employment.
            ``(2) Provision to employees of education-related benefits, 
        including tuition assistance and student loan repayment 
        programs.
            ``(3) Availability and enhancement of wellness and physical 
        fitness programs for employees.
            ``(4) Provision of such other competitive benefits as the 
        Secretary of the military department and the Secretary of 
        Defense jointly consider appropriate.''.
            (2) Reports on installations with extreme imbalance between 
        demand for and availability of child care.--Not later than one 
        year after the date of the enactment of this Act, each 
        Secretary of a military department shall submit to Congress a 
        report on the military installations under the jurisdiction of 
        such Secretary with an extreme imbalance between demand for 
        child care and availability of child care. Each report shall 
        include, for the military department covered by such report, 
        the following:
                    (A) The name of the five installations of the 
                military department experiencing the most extreme 
                imbalance between demand for child care and 
                availability of child care.
                    (B) For each installation named pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A), the following:
                            (i) An assessment whether civilian 
                        employees at child development centers at such 
                        installation have rates of pay and benefits 
                        that are competitive with other civilian 
                        employees on such installation and with the 
                        civilian labor pool in the vicinity of such 
                        installation.
                            (ii) A description and assessment of 
                        various incentives to encourage military 
                        spouses to become providers under the Family 
                        Child Care program at such installation.
                            (iii) Such recommendations at the Secretary 
                        of the military department concerned considers 
                        appropriate to address the imbalance between 
                        demand for child care and availability of child 
                        care at such installation, including 
                        recommendations to enhance the competitiveness 
                        of civilian child care positions at such 
                        installation with other civilian positions at 
                        such installation and the civilian labor pool 
                        in the vicinity of such installation.

SEC. 577. EXPANSION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER MY CAREER ADVANCEMENT 
              ACCOUNT PROGRAM.

    Section 580F of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Professional License or 
        Certification; Associate's Degree.--'' before ``The 
        Secretary'';
            (2) by inserting ``or maintenance (including continuing 
        education courses)'' after ``pursuit''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) National Testing.--Financial assistance under subsection (a) 
may be applied to the costs of national tests that may earn a 
participating military spouse course credits required for a degree 
approved under the program (including the College Level Examination 
Program tests).''.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

SEC. 586. REMOVAL OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFYING AND OTHER INFORMATION OF 
              CERTAIN PERSONS FROM INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS, THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CENTRAL INDEX OF INVESTIGATIONS, 
              AND OTHER RECORDS AND DATABASES.

    (a) Policy and Process Required.--Not later than October 1, 2021, 
the Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain a policy and 
process through which any covered person may request that the person's 
name, personally identifying information, and other information 
pertaining to the person shall, in accordance with subsection (c), be 
corrected in, or expunged or otherwise removed from, the following:
            (1) A law enforcement or criminal investigative report of 
        the Department of Defense or any component of the Department.
            (2) An index item or entry in the Department of Defense 
        Central Index of Investigations (DCII).
            (3) Any other record maintained in connection with a report 
        described in paragraph (1), or an index item or entry described 
        in paragraph (2), in any system of records, records database, 
        records center, or repository maintained by or on behalf of the 
        Department.
    (b) Covered Persons.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
person is any person whose name was placed or reported, or is 
maintained--
            (1) in the subject or title block of a law enforcement or 
        criminal investigative report of the Department of Defense (or 
        any component of the Department);
            (2) as an item or entry in the Department of Defense 
        Central Index of Investigations; or
            (3) in any other record maintained in connection with a 
        report described in paragraph (1), or an index item or entry 
        described in paragraph (2), in any system of records, records 
        database, records center, or repository maintained by or on 
        behalf of the Department.
    (c) Elements.--The policy and process required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following elements:
            (1) Basis for correction or expungement.--That the name, 
        personally identifying information, and other information of a 
        covered person shall be corrected in, or expunged or otherwise 
        removed from, a report, item or entry, or record described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) in the following 
        circumstances:
                    (A) Probable cause did not or does not exist to 
                believe that the offense for which the person's name 
                was placed or reported, or is maintained, in such 
                report, item or entry, or record occurred, or 
                insufficient evidence existed or exists to determine 
                whether or not such offense occurred.
                    (B) Probable cause did not or does not exist to 
                believe that the person actually committed the offense 
                for which the person's name was so placed or reported, 
                or is so maintained, or insufficient evidence existed 
                or exists to determine whether or not the person 
                actually committed such offense.
                    (C) Such other circumstances, or on such other 
                bases, as the Secretary may specify in establishing the 
                policy and process, which circumstances and bases may 
                not be inconsistent with the circumstances and bases 
                provided by subparagraphs (A) and (B).
            (2) Considerations.--While not dispositive as to the 
        existence of a circumstance or basis set forth in paragraph 
        (1), the following shall be considered in the determination 
        whether such circumstance or basis applies to a covered person 
        for purposes of this section:
                    (A) The extent or lack of corroborating evidence 
                against the covered person concerned with respect to 
                the offense at issue.
                    (B) Whether adverse administrative, disciplinary, 
                judicial, or other such action was initiated against 
                the covered person for the offense at issue.
                    (C) The type, nature, and outcome of any action 
                described in subparagraph (B) against the covered 
                person.
            (3) Procedures.--The policy and process required by 
        subsection (a) shall include procedures as follows:
                    (A) Procedures under which a covered person may 
                appeal a determination of the applicable component of 
                the Department of Defense denying, whether in whole or 
                in part, a request for purposes of subsection (a).
                    (B) Procedures under which the applicable component 
                of the Department will correct, expunge or remove, take 
                other appropriate action on, or assist a covered person 
                in so doing, any record maintained by a person, 
                organization, or entity outside of the Department to 
                which such component provided, submitted, or 
                transmitted information about the covered person, which 
                information has or will be corrected in, or expunged or 
                removed from, Department records pursuant to this 
                section.
                    (C) The timeline pursuant to which the Department, 
                or a component of the Department, as applicable, will 
                respond to each of the following:
                            (i) A request pursuant to subsection (a).
                            (ii) An appeal under the procedures 
                        required by subparagraph (A).
                            (iii) A request for assistance under the 
                        procedures required by subparagraph (B).
                    (D) Mechanisms through which the Department will 
                keep a covered person apprised of the progress of the 
                Department on a covered person's request or appeal as 
                described in subparagraph (C).
    (d) Applicability.--The policy and process required to be developed 
by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall not be subject to the 
notice and comment rulemaking requirements under section 553 of title 
5, United States Code.
    (e) Report.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report on the actions taken to carry out this 
section, including a comprehensive description of the policy and 
process developed and implemented by the Secretary under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 587. NATIONAL EMERGENCY EXCEPTION FOR TIMING REQUIREMENTS WITH 
              RESPECT TO CERTAIN SURVEYS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) Members of Regular and Reserve Components.--Subsection (d) of 
section 481 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(d) When Surveys Required.--(1) The Armed Forces Workplace and 
Gender Relations Surveys of the Active Duty and the Armed Forces 
Workplace and Gender Relations Survey of the Reserve Components shall 
each be conducted once every two years. The surveys may be conducted 
within the same year or in two separate years, and shall be conducted 
in a manner designed to reduce the burden of the surveys on members of 
the armed forces.
    ``(2) The two Armed Forces Workplace and Equal Opportunity Surveys 
shall be conducted at least once every four years. The surveys may be 
conducted within the same year or in two separate years, and shall be 
conducted in a manner designed to reduce the burden of the surveys on 
members of the armed forces.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of a 
survey under this section if the Secretary determines that conducting 
such survey is not practicable due to a war or national emergency 
declared by the President or Congress.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall ensure that a survey postponed under 
subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of 
the period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(C) The Secretary shall notify Congress of a determination under 
subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
Secretary makes such determination.''.
    (b) Cadets and Midshipmen.--
            (1) United states military academy.--Section 7461(c) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of an 
assessment under this subsection if the Secretary determines that 
conducting such assessment is not practicable due to a war or national 
emergency declared by the President or Congress.
    ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an assessment 
postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable 
after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or 
earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(C) The Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of a 
determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the 
date on which the Secretary makes such determination.''.
            (2) United states naval academy.--Section 8480(c) of such 
        title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of an 
assessment under this subsection if the Secretary determines that 
conducting such assessment is not practicable due to a war or national 
emergency declared by the President or Congress.
    ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an assessment 
postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable 
after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or 
earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(C) The Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of a 
determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the 
date on which the Secretary makes such determination.''.
            (3) United states air force academy.--Section 9461(c) of 
        such title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may postpone the conduct of an 
assessment under this subsection if the Secretary determines that 
conducting such assessment is not practicable due to a war or national 
emergency declared by the President or Congress.
    ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an assessment 
postponed under subparagraph (A) is conducted as soon as practicable 
after the end of the period of war or national emergency concerned, or 
earlier if the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(C) The Secretary of Defense shall notify Congress of a 
determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30 days after the 
date on which the Secretary makes such determination.''.
    (c) Department of Defense Civilian Employees.--Section 481a of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Postponement.--(1) The Secretary of Defense may postpone the 
conduct of a survey under this section if the Secretary determines that 
conducting such survey is not practicable due to a war or national 
emergency declared by the President or Congress.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall ensure that a survey postponed under 
paragraph (1) is conducted as soon as practicable after the end of the 
period of war or national emergency concerned, or earlier if the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall notify Congress of a determination under 
paragraph (1) not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
Secretary makes such determination.''.

SEC. 588. SUNSET AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS OF THE PHYSICAL DISABILITY 
              BOARD OF REVIEW.

    Section 1554a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Sunset.--(1) On or after October 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense may sunset the Physical Disability Board of Review under this 
section.
    ``(2) If the Secretary sunsets the Physical Disability Board of 
Review under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transfer any remaining 
requests for review pending at that time, and shall assign any new 
requests for review under this section, to a board for the correction 
of military records operated by the Secretary concerned under section 
1552 of this title..
    ``(3) Subsection (c)(4) shall not apply with respect to any review 
conducted by a board for the correction of military records under 
paragraph (2).''.

SEC. 589. EXTENSION OF REPORTING DEADLINE FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON THE 
              ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF ACTIVITIES OF THE 
              FEDERAL VOTING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Elimination of Reports for Non-election Years.--Section 105A(b) 
of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 
20308(b)) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by striking ``March 31 of each year'' and inserting 
        ``September 30 of each odd-numbered year''; and
            (2) by striking ``the following information'' and inserting 
        ``the following information with respect to the Federal 
        elections held during the preceding calendar year''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (b) of section 105A of such 
Act (52 U.S.C. 20308(b)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Annual 
        Report'' and inserting ``Biennial Report''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``In the case of'' and 
        all that follows through ``a description'' and inserting ``A 
        description''.

SEC. 590. PILOT PROGRAMS ON REMOTE PROVISION BY NATIONAL GUARD TO STATE 
              GOVERNMENTS AND NATIONAL GUARDS OF OTHER STATES OF 
              CYBERSECURITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN TRAINING, 
              PREPARATION, AND RESPONSE TO CYBER INCIDENTS.

    (a) Pilot Programs Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Air Force may each, in consultation with the Chief of 
the National Guard Bureau, conduct a pilot program to assess the 
feasibility and advisability of the development of a capability within 
the National Guard through which a National Guard of a State remotely 
provides State governments and National Guards of other States (whether 
or not in the same Armed Force as the providing National Guard) with 
cybersecurity technical assistance in training, preparation, and 
response to cyber incidents. If such Secretary elects to conduct such a 
pilot program, such Secretary shall be known as an ``administering 
Secretary'' for purposes of this section, and any reference in this 
section to ``the pilot program'' shall be treated as a reference to the 
pilot program conducted by such Secretary.
    (b) Assessment Prior to Commencement.--For purposes of evaluating 
existing platforms, technologies, and capabilities under subsection 
(c), and for establishing eligibility and participation requirements 
under subsection (d), for purposes of the pilot program, an 
administering Secretary, in consultation with the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau, shall, prior to commencing the pilot program--
            (1) conduct an assessment of--
                    (A) existing cyber response capacities of the Army 
                National Guard or Air National Guard, as applicable, in 
                each State; and
                    (B) any existing platform, technology, or 
                capability of a National Guard that provides the 
                capability described in subsection (a); and
            (2) determine whether a platform, technology, or capability 
        described in paragraph (1)(B) is suitable for expansion for 
        purposes of the pilot program.
    (c) Elements.--A pilot program under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A technical capability that enables the National Guard 
        of a State to remotely provide cybersecurity technical 
        assistance to State governments and National Guards of other 
        States, without the need to deploy outside its home State.
            (2) Policies, processes, procedures, and authorities for 
        use of such a capability, including with respect to the 
        following:
                    (A) The roles and responsibilities of both 
                requesting and deploying State governments and National 
                Guards with respect to such technical assistance, 
                taking into account the matters specified in subsection 
                (f).
                    (B) Necessary updates to the Defense Cyber Incident 
                Coordinating Procedure, or any other applicable 
                Department of Defense instruction, for purposes of 
                implementing the capability.
                    (C) Program management and governance structures 
                for deployment and maintenance of the capability.
                    (D) Security when performing remote support, 
                including such in matters such as authentication and 
                remote sensing.
            (3) The conduct, in coordination with the Chief of the 
        National Guard Bureau and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        and in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation, other Federal agencies, and appropriate non-
        Federal entities, of at least one exercise to demonstrate the 
        capability, which exercise shall include the following:
                    (A) Participation of not fewer than two State 
                governments and their National Guards.
                    (B) Circumstances designed to test and validate the 
                policies, processes, procedures, and authorities 
                developed pursuant to paragraph (2).
                    (C) An after action review of the exercise.
    (d) Use of Existing Technology.--An administering Secretary may use 
an existing platform, technology, or capability to provide the 
capability described in subsection (a) under the pilot program.
    (e) Eligibility and Participation Requirements.--An administering 
Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau, establish requirements with respect to eligibility and 
participation of State governments and their National Guards in the 
pilot program.
    (f) Construction With Certain Current Authorities.--
            (1) Command authorities.--Nothing in a pilot program under 
        subsection (a) may be construed as affecting or altering the 
        command authorities otherwise applicable to any unit of the 
        National Guard unit participating in the pilot program.
            (2) Emergency management assistance compact.--Nothing in a 
        pilot program may be construed as affecting or altering any 
        current agreement under the Emergency Management Assistance 
        Compact, or any other State agreements, or as determinative of 
        the future content of any such agreement.
    (g) Evaluation Metrics.--An administering Secretary shall, in 
consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, establish metrics to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the pilot program.
    (h) Term.--A pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on 
the date that is three years after the date of the commencement of the 
pilot program.
    (i) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the commencement of the pilot program, the administering 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report setting forth a description of the pilot 
        program and such other matters in connection with the pilot 
        program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        termination of the pilot program, the administering Secretary 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        on the pilot program. The report shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the pilot program, including 
                any partnerships entered into by the Chief of the 
                National Guard Bureau under the pilot program.
                    (B) A summary of the assessment performed prior to 
                the commencement of the pilot program in accordance 
                with subsection (b).
                    (C) A summary of the evaluation metrics established 
                in accordance with subsection (g).
                    (D) An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot 
                program, and of the capability described in subsection 
                (a) under the pilot program.
                    (E) A description of costs associated with the 
                implementation and conduct of the pilot program.
                    (F) A recommendation as to the termination or 
                extension of the pilot program, or the making of the 
                pilot program permanent with an expansion nationwide.
                    (G) An estimate of the costs of making the pilot 
                program permanent and expanding it nationwide in 
                accordance with the recommendation in subparagraph (F).
                    (H) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of the pilot program.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (j) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each 
of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 591. PLAN ON PERFORMANCE OF FUNERAL HONORS DETAILS BY MEMBERS OF 
              OTHER ARMED FORCES WHEN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCE OF THE 
              DECEASED ARE UNAVAILABLE.

    (a) Briefing on Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives setting forth a plan 
        for the performance of a funeral honors detail at the funeral 
        of a deceased member of the Armed Forces by one or more members 
        of the Armed Forces from an Armed Force other than that of the 
        deceased when--
                    (A) members of the Armed Force of the deceased are 
                unavailable for the performance of the detail; and
                    (B) the performance of the detail by members of 
                other Armed Forces is requested by the family of the 
                deceased.
            (2) Repeal of requirement for one member of armed force of 
        deceased in detail.--Section 1491(b)(2) of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended in the first sentence by striking ``, 
        at least one of whom shall be a member of the armed force of 
        which the veteran was a member''.
            (3) Performance.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        authorize the performance of funeral honors details by members 
        of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard under 
        section 115 of title 32, United States Code, and may authorize 
        the remainder of such details to consist of members of veterans 
        organizations or other organizations approved for purposes of 
        section 1491 of title 10, United States Code, as provided for 
        by subsection (b)(2) of such section 1491.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing under subsection (a) shall include a 
description in detail the authorities and requirements for the 
implementation of the plan, including administrative, logistical, 
coordination, and funding authorities and requirements.

SEC. 592. LIMITATION ON IMPLEMENTATION OF ARMY COMBAT FITNESS TEST.

    The Secretary of the Army may not implement the Army Combat Fitness 
Test until the Secretary receives results of a study, conducted for 
purposes of this section by an entity independent of the Department of 
Defense, on the following:
            (1) The extent, if any, to which the test would adversely 
        impact members of the Army stationed or deployed to climates or 
        areas with conditions that make prohibitive the conduct of 
        outdoor physical training on a frequent or sustained basis.
            (2) The extent, if any, to which the test would affect 
        recruitment and retention in critical support military 
        occupational specialties (MOS) of the Army, such as medical 
        personnel.

SEC. 593. REPORT ON IMPACT OF CHILDREN OF CERTAIN FILIPINO WORLD WAR II 
              VETERANS ON NATIONAL SECURITY, FOREIGN POLICY, AND 
              ECONOMIC AND HUMANITARIAN INTERESTS OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the impact of the children of certain Filipino 
World War II veterans on the national security, foreign policy, and 
economic and humanitarian interests of the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) The number of Filipino World War II veterans who fought 
        under the United States flag during World War II to protect and 
        defend the United States in the Pacific theater.
            (2) The number of Filipino World War II veterans who died 
        fighting under the United States flag during World War II to 
        protect and defend the United States in the Pacific theater.
            (3) An assessment of the economic and tax contributions 
        that Filipino World War II veterans and their families have 
        made to the United States.
            (4) An assessment of the impact on the United States of 
        exempting from the numerical limitations on immigrant visas the 
        children of the Filipino World War II veterans who were 
        naturalized under--
                    (A) section 405 of the Immigration Act of 1990 
                (Public Law 101-649; 8 U.S.C. 1440 note); or
                    (B) title III of the Nationality Act of 1940 (54 
                Stat. 1137; chapter 876), as added by section 1001 of 
                the Second War Powers Act, 1942 (56 Stat. 182; chapter 
                199).

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

SEC. 601. REORGANIZATION OF CERTAIN ALLOWANCES OTHER THAN TRAVEL AND 
              TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCES.

    (a) Per Diem for Duty Outside the Continental United States.--
            (1) Transfer to chapter 7.--Section 475 of title 37, United 
        States Code, is transferred to chapter 7 of such title, 
        inserted after section 403b, and redesignated as section 405.
            (2) Repeal of termination provision.--Section 405 of title 
        37, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), is amended 
        by striking subsection (f).
            (3) Retitling of authority.--The heading of section 405 of 
        title 37, United States Code, as so added, is amended to read 
        as follows:
``Sec. 405. Per diem while on duty outside the continental United 
              States''.
    (b) Allowance for Funeral Honors Duty.--
            (1) Transfer to chapter 7.--Section 495 of title 37, United 
        States Code, is transferred to chapter 7 of such title, 
        inserted after section 433a, and redesignated as section 435.
            (2) Repeal of termination provision.--Section 435 of title 
        37, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), is amended 
        by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Chapter 7.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
        chapter 7 of such title 37, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by inserting after the item relating to section 
                403b the following new item:

``405. Per diem while on duty outside the continental United States.'';
        and
                    (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 
                433a the following new item:

``435. Funeral honors duty: allowance.''.
            (2) Chapter 8.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
        chapter 8 of such title is amended by striking the items 
        relating to sections 475 and 495.

SEC. 602. HAZARDOUS DUTY PAY FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES PERFORMING 
              DUTY IN RESPONSE TO THE CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the military department concerned 
shall pay hazardous duty pay under this section to a member of a 
regular or reserve component of the Armed Forces who--
            (1) performs duty in response to the Coronavirus Disease 
        2019 (COVID-19); and
            (2) is entitled to basic pay under section 204 of title 37, 
        United States Code, or compensation under section 206 of such 
        title, for the performance of such duty.
    (b) Regulations.--Hazardous duty pay shall be payable under this 
section in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Defense. Such regulations shall specify the duty in response to the 
Coronavirus Disease 2019 qualifying a member for payment of such pay 
under this section.
    (c) Amount.--The amount of hazardous duty pay paid a member under 
this section shall be such amount per month, not less than $150 per 
month, as the Secretary of Defense shall specify in the regulations 
under subsection (b).
    (d) Monthly Payment; No Proration.--
            (1) Monthly payment.--Hazardous duty pay under this section 
        shall be paid on a monthly basis.
            (2) No proration.--Hazardous duty pay is payable to a 
        member under this section for a month if the member performs 
        any duty in that month qualifying the person for payment of 
        such pay.
    (e) Months for Which Payable.--Hazardous duty pay is payable under 
this section for qualifying duty performed in months occurring during 
the period--
            (1) beginning on January 1, 2020; and
            (2) ending on December 31, 2020.
    (f) Construction With Other Pay.--Hazardous duty pay payable to a 
member under this section is in addition to the following:
            (1) Any other pay and allowances to which the member is 
        entitled by law.
            (2) Any other hazardous duty pay to which the member is 
        entitled under section 351 of title 37, United States Code (or 
        any other provision of law), for duty that also constitutes 
        qualifying duty for payment of such pay under this section.
    (g) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Secretary of Defense should also authorize hazardous duty pay for 
members of the Armed Forces not under orders specific to the response 
to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 who provide--
            (1) healthcare in a military medical treatment facility for 
        individuals infected with the Coronavirus Disease 2019; or
            (2) technical or administrative support for the provision 
        of healthcare as described in paragraph (1).

SEC. 603. COMPENSATION AND CREDIT FOR RETIRED PAY PURPOSES FOR 
              MATERNITY LEAVE TAKEN BY MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE 
              COMPONENTS.

    (a) Compensation.--Section 206(a) of title 37, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) for each of 6 days in connection with the taking by 
        the member of a period of maternity leave.''.
    (b) Credit for Retired Pay Purposes.--
            (1) In general.--The period of maternity leave taken by a 
        member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces in 
        connection with the birth of a child shall count toward the 
        member's entitlement to retired pay, and in connection with the 
        years of service used in computing retired pay, under chapter 
        1223 of title 10, United States Code, as 12 points.
            (2) Separate credit for each period of leave.--Separate 
        crediting of points shall accrue to a member pursuant to this 
        subsection for each period of maternity leave taken by the 
        member in connection with a childbirth event.
            (3) When credited.--Points credited a member for a period 
        of maternity leave pursuant to this subsection shall be 
        credited in the year in which the period of maternity leave 
        concerned commences.
            (4) Contribution of leave toward entitlement to retired 
        pay.--Section 12732(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(F) Points at the rate of 12 a year for the taking of 
        maternity leave.''.
            (5) Computation of years of service for retired pay.--
        Section 12733 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph 
                (6); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following 
                new paragraph (5):
            ``(5) One day for each point credited to the person under 
        subparagraph (F) of section 12732(a)(2) of this title.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
shall apply with respect to periods of maternity leave that commence on 
or after that date.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN EXPIRING BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Authorities Relating To Reserve Forces.--Section 910(g) of 
title 37, United States Code, relating to income replacement payments 
for reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
mobilization for active duty service, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Title 10 Authorities Relating to Health Care Professionals.--
The following sections of title 10, United States Code, are amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021'':
            (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer 
        candidate accession program.
            (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education 
        loans for certain health professionals who serve in the 
        Selected Reserve.
    (c) Authorities Relating to Nuclear Officers.--Section 333(i) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (d) Authorities Relating to Title 37 Consolidated Special Pay, 
Incentive Pay, and Bonus Authorities.--The following sections of title 
37, United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2021'':
            (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
        enlisted members.
            (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
        officers.
            (3) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive 
        pay and bonus authorities for officers.
            (4) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive 
        pay authorities for officers in health professions.
            (5) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for 
        cadets and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps.
            (6) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
            (7) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special 
        duty pay.
            (8) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
        proficiency bonus.
            (9) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
        members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to 
        high priority units.
    (e) Authority to Provide Temporary Increase in Rates of Basic 
Allowance for Housing.--Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 612. INCREASE IN SPECIAL AND INCENTIVE PAYS FOR OFFICERS IN HEALTH 
              PROFESSIONS.

    (a) Accession Bonus Generally.--Subparagraph (A) of section 
335(e)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``$30,000'' and inserting ``$100,000''.
    (b) Accession Bonus for Critically Short Wartime Specialties.--
Subparagraph (B) of such section is amended by striking ``$100,000'' 
and inserting ``$200,000''.
    (c) Retention Bonus.--Subparagraph (C) of such section is amended 
by striking ``$75,000'' and inserting ``$150,000''.
    (d) Incentive Pay.--Subparagraph (D) of such section is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``$100,000'' and inserting 
        ``$200,000''; and
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking ``$15,000'' and inserting 
        ``$50,000''.
    (e) Board Certification Pay.--Subparagraph (E) of such section is 
amended by striking ``$6,000'' and inserting ``$15,000''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2020, and shall apply with respect to special 
bonus and incentive pays payable under section 335 of title 37, United 
States Code, pursuant to agreements entered into under that section on 
or after that date.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

SEC. 621. INCLUSION OF DRILL OR TRAINING FOREGONE DUE TO EMERGENCY 
              TRAVEL OR DUTY RESTRICTIONS IN COMPUTATIONS OF 
              ENTITLEMENT TO AND AMOUNTS OF RETIRED PAY FOR NON-REGULAR 
              SERVICE.

    (a) Entitlement to Retired Pay.--Section 12732(a)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(F)(i) Subject to regulations prescribed by the 
                Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Homeland 
                Security with respect to matters concerning the Coast 
                Guard when it is not operating as a service in the 
                Department of the Navy, one point for each day of 
                active service or one point for each drill or period of 
                equivalent instruction that was prescribed by the 
                Secretary concerned to be performed during the covered 
                emergency period, if such person was prevented from 
                performing such duty due to travel or duty restrictions 
                imposed by the President, the Secretary of Defense, or 
                the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to the 
                Coast Guard.
                    ``(ii) A person may not be credited more than 35 
                points in a one-year period under this subparagraph.
                    ``(iii) In this subparagraph, the term `covered 
                emergency period' means the period beginning on March 
                1, 2020, and ending on the day that is 60 days after 
                the date on which the travel or duty restriction 
                applicable to the person concerned is lifted.''; and
            (2) in the matter following subparagraph (F), as inserted 
        by paragraph (1), by striking ``and (E)'' and inserting ``(E), 
        and (F)''.
    (b) Amount of Retired Pay.--Section 12733(3) of such title is 
amended in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 
(D)'' and inserting ``(D), or (F)''.

SEC. 622. MODERNIZATION AND CLARIFICATION OF PAYMENT OF CERTAIN 
              RESERVES WHILE ON DUTY.

    (a) Change in Priority of Payments for Retired or Retainer Pay.--
Subsection (a) of section 12316 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``subsection (b)'' and inserting 
                ``subsection (c)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``his earlier military service'' 
                and inserting ``the Reserve's earlier military 
                service'';
                    (C) by striking ``a pension, retired or retainer 
                pay, or disability compensation'' and inserting 
                ``retired or retainer pay''; and
                    (D) by striking ``he is entitled'' and inserting 
                ``the Reserve is entitled''; and
            (2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
        following new paragraphs:
            ``(1) the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty 
        that the Reserve is performing; or
            ``(2) if the Reserve specifically waives those payments, 
        the retired or retainer pay to which the Reserve is entitled 
        because of the Reserve's earlier military service.''.
    (b) Payments for Pension or Disability Compensation.--Such section 
is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Except as provided by subsection (c), a Reserve of the Army, 
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard who because of the 
Reserve's earlier military service is entitled to a pension or 
disability compensation, and who performs duty for which the Reserve is 
entitled to compensation, may elect to receive for that duty either--
            ``(1) the pension or disability compensation to which the 
        Reserve is entitled because of the Reserve's earlier military 
        service; or
            ``(2) if the Reserve specifically waives those payments, 
        the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty that the 
        Reserve is performing.''.
    (c) Additional Conforming and Modernizing Amendments.--Subsection 
(c) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this 
section, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a)(2)'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``(a)(1) or (b)(2), as applicable,'';
            (2) by striking ``his earlier military service'' the first 
        place it appears and inserting ``a Reserve's earlier military 
        service'';
            (3) by striking ``his earlier military service'' each other 
        place it appears and inserting ``the Reserve's earlier military 
        service'';
            (4) by striking ``he is entitled'' and inserting ``the 
        Reserve is entitled''; and
            (5) by striking ``the member or his dependents'' and 
        inserting ``the Reserve or the Reserve's dependents''.
    (d) Procedures.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations under 
which a Reserve of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast 
Guard may waive the pay and allowances authorized by law for the duty 
the Reserve is performing under subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2).''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 623. RELIEF OF RICHARD W. COLLINS III.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On May 20, 2017, Lieutenant Richard W. Collins III was 
        murdered on the campus of the University of Maryland, College 
        Park, Maryland.
            (2) At the time of his murder, Lieutenant Collins had 
        graduated from the Reserve Officers' Training Corps at Bowie 
        State University and received a commission in the United States 
        Army.
            (3) At the time of the murder of Lieutenant Collins, a 
        graduate of a Reserve Officers' Training Corps who received a 
        commission but died before receiving a first duty assignment 
        was not eligible for a death gratuity under section 1475(a)(4) 
        of title 10, United States Code, or for casualty assistance 
        under section 633 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2014 (10 U.S.C. 1475 note).
            (4) Section 623 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) amended section 1475 
        of title 10, United States Code, to authorize the payment of a 
        death gratuity to a graduate of the Senior Reserve Officers' 
        Training Corps (SROTC) who receives a commission but dies 
        before receiving a first duty assignment.
            (5) Section 625 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2020 authorizes the families of Senior Reserve 
        Officers' Training Corps graduates to receive casualty 
        assistance in the event of the death of such graduates.
            (6) Sections 623 and 625 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 apply only to a Senior 
        Reserve Officers' Training Corps graduate who receives a 
        commission but dies before receiving a first duty assignment on 
        or after the date of the enactment of that Act.
            (7) The death of Lieutenant Collins played a critical role 
        in changing the eligibility criteria for the death gratuity for 
        Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps graduates who die prior 
        to their first assignment.
    (b) Applicability of Laws.--
            (1) Death gratuity.--Section 623 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), and 
        the amendment made by that section, shall apply to Lieutenant 
        Richard W. Collins III as if his death had occurred after the 
        date of the enactment of that section.
            (2) Casualty assistance.--Section 625 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, and the 
        amendment made by that section, shall apply to Lieutenant 
        Richard W. Collins III as if his death had occurred after the 
        date of the enactment of that section.
    (c) Limitation.--No amount exceeding 10 percent of a payment made 
under subsection (b)(1) may be paid to or received by any attorney or 
agent for services rendered in connection with the payment. Any person 
who violates this subsection shall be guilty of an infraction and shall 
be subject to a fine in the amount provided under title 18, United 
States Code.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 631. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR AND ENHANCEMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT 
              LODGING PROGRAM.

    (a) Permanent Authority.--Section 914 of the Carl Levin and Howard 
P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (5 U.S.C. 5911 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``, for the period of 
        time described in subsection (b),''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).
    (b) Exclusion of Certain Shipyard Employees.--Such section is 
further amended by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
subsection (b):
    ``(b) Exclusion of Certain Shipyard Employees.--In carrying out a 
Government lodging program under the authority in subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall exclude from the requirements of the program employees 
who are traveling for the performance of mission functions of a public 
shipyard of the Department if the purpose or mission of such travel 
would be adversely affected by the requirements of the program.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
to read as follows:

``SEC. 914. GOVERNMENT LODGING PROGRAM.''.

SEC. 632. APPROVAL OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES BY RETIRED AND RESERVE MEMBERS 
              OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    (a) Clarification of Activities for Which Approval Required.--
Section 908 of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``subsection (b)'' and 
                        inserting ``subsections (b) and (c)''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, accepting payment for 
                        speeches, travel, meals, lodging, or 
                        registration fees, or accepting a non-cash 
                        award,'' after ``that employment)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``armed forces'' 
                and inserting ``armed forces, except members serving on 
                active duty under a call or order to active duty for a 
                period in excess of 30 days'';
            (2) in the heading of subsection (b), by inserting ``for 
        Employment and Compensation'' after ``Approval Required'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Approval Required for Certain Payments and Awards.--A person 
described in subsection (a) may accept payment for speeches, travel, 
meals, lodging, or registration fees described in that subsection, or 
accept a non-cash award described in that subsection, only if the 
Secretary concerned approves the payment or award.''.
    (b) Annual Reports on Approvals.--Subsection (d) of such section, 
as redesignated by subsection (a)(3) of this section, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Not later than'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection, by inserting ``, and each approval under 
        subsection (c) for a payment or award described in subsection 
        (a),'' after ``in subsection (a)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The report under paragraph (1) on an approval described in 
that paragraph with respect to an officer shall set forth the 
following:
            ``(A) The foreign government providing the employment or 
        compensation or payment or award.
            ``(B) The duties, if any, to be performed in connection 
        with the employment or compensation or payment or award.
            ``(C) The total amount of compensation, if any, or payment 
        to be provided.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 908. Reserves and retired members: acceptance of employment, 
              payments, and awards from foreign governments''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 908 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``908. Reserves and retired members: acceptance of employment, 
                            payments, and awards from foreign 
                            governments.''.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

SEC. 701. AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO MANAGE PROVIDER TYPE 
              REFERRAL AND SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS UNDER TRICARE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 1079(a)(12) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in 
the first sentence, by striking ``or certified clinical social 
worker,'' and inserting ``certified clinical social worker, or other 
class of provider as designated by the Secretary of Defense,''.

SEC. 702. REMOVAL OF CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PROVIDERS AS AUTHORIZED 
              PROVIDERS UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) Repeal.--Subsection (a) of section 1079 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (4).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Paragraph (12) of such subsection is 
amended, in the first sentence, by striking ``, except as authorized in 
paragraph (4)''.

SEC. 703. WAIVER OF FEES CHARGED TO CERTAIN CIVILIANS FOR EMERGENCY 
              MEDICAL TREATMENT PROVIDED AT MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT 
              FACILITIES.

    Section 1079b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Waiver of Fees.--Under the procedures implemented under 
subsection (a), a military medical treatment facility may waive a fee 
charged under such procedures to a civilian who is not a covered 
beneficiary if--
            ``(1) after insurance payments, if any, the civilian is not 
        able to pay for the trauma or other medical care provided to 
        the civilian; and
            ``(2) the provision of such care enhanced the medical 
        readiness of the health care provider or health care providers 
        furnishing such care.''.

SEC. 704. MENTAL HEALTH RESOURCES FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
              THEIR DEPENDENTS DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC.

    (a) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to protect 
and promote the mental health and well-being of members of the Armed 
Forces and their dependents, which shall include the following:
            (1) A strategy to combat existing stigma surrounding mental 
        health conditions that might deter such individuals from 
        seeking care.
            (2) Guidance to commanding officers at all levels on the 
        mental health ramifications of the COVID-19 crisis.
            (3) Additional training and support for mental health care 
        professionals of the Department of Defense on supporting 
        individuals who are concerned for the health of themselves and 
        their family members, or grieving the loss of loved ones due to 
        COVID-19.
            (4) A strategy to leverage telemedicine to ensure safe 
        access to mental health services.
    (b) Outreach.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct outreach to 
the military community to identify resources and health care services, 
including mental health care services, available under the TRICARE 
program to support members of the Armed Forces and their dependents.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``dependent'' and 
``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 
of such title.

SEC. 705. TRANSITIONAL HEALTH BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE 
              NATIONAL GUARD SERVING UNDER ORDERS IN RESPONSE TO THE 
              CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19).

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide to a member 
of the National Guard separating from active service after serving on 
full-time National Guard duty pursuant to section 502(f) of title 32, 
United States Code, the health benefits authorized under section 1145 
of title 10, United States Code, for a member of a reserve component 
separating from active duty, as referred to in subsection (a)(2)(B) of 
such section 1145, if the active service from which the member of the 
National Guard is separating was in support of the whole of government 
response to the coronavirus (COVID-19).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``active duty'', 
``active service'', and ``full-time National Guard duty'' have the 
meanings given those terms in section 101(d) of title 10, United States 
Code.

SEC. 706. EXTRAMEDICAL MATERNAL HEALTH PROVIDERS DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

    (a) Demonstration Project Required.--Not later than one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
commence the conduct of a demonstration project designed to evaluate 
the cost, quality of care, and impact on maternal and fetal outcomes of 
using extramedical maternal health providers under the TRICARE program 
to determine the appropriateness of making coverage of such providers 
under the TRICARE program permanent.
    (b) Elements of Demonstration Project.--The demonstration project 
under subsection (a) shall include, for participants in the 
demonstration project, the following:
            (1) Access to doulas.
            (2) Access to lactation consultants who are not otherwise 
        authorized to provide services under the TRICARE program.
    (c) Participants.--The Secretary shall establish a process under 
which covered beneficiaries may enroll in the demonstration project in 
order to receive the services provided under the demonstration project.
    (d) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the demonstration 
project for a period of five years beginning on the date on which 
notification of the commencement of the demonstration project is 
published in the Federal Register.
    (e) Survey.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for the 
        duration of the demonstration project, the Secretary shall 
        administer a survey to determine--
                    (A) how many members of the Armed Forces or spouses 
                of such members give birth while their spouse or 
                birthing partner is unable to be present due to 
                deployment, training, or other mission requirements;
                    (B) how many single members of the Armed Forces 
                give birth alone; and
                    (C) how many members of the Armed Forces or spouses 
                of such members use doula support or lactation 
                consultants.
            (2) Matters covered by the survey.--The survey administered 
        under paragraph (1) shall include an identification of the 
        following:
                    (A) The race, ethnicity, age, sex, relationship 
                status, military service, military occupation, and 
                rank, as applicable, of each individual surveyed.
                    (B) If individuals surveyed were members of the 
                Armed Forces or the spouses of such members, or both.
                    (C) The length of advanced notice received by 
                individuals surveyed that the member of the Armed 
                Forces would be unable to be present during the birth, 
                if applicable.
                    (D) Any resources or support that the individuals 
                surveyed found useful during the pregnancy and birth 
                process, including doula or lactation counselor 
                support.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Implementation plan.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives a plan to implement the demonstration 
        project.
            (2) Annual report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                commencement of the demonstration project, and annually 
                thereafter for the duration of the demonstration 
                project, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees 
                on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
                Representatives a report on the cost of the 
                demonstration project and the effectiveness of the 
                demonstration project in improving quality of care and 
                the maternal and fetal outcomes of covered 
                beneficiaries enrolled in the demonstration project.
                    (B) Matters covered.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall address, at a minimum, the 
                following:
                            (i) The number of covered beneficiaries who 
                        are enrolled in the demonstration project.
                            (ii) The number of enrolled covered 
                        beneficiaries who have participated in the 
                        demonstration project.
                            (iii) The results of the surveys under 
                        subsection (f).
                            (iv) The cost of the demonstration project.
                            (v) An assessment of the quality of care 
                        provided to participants in the demonstration 
                        project.
                            (vi) An assessment of the impact of the 
                        demonstration project on maternal and fetal 
                        outcomes.
                            (vii) An assessment of the effectiveness of 
                        the demonstration project.
                            (viii) Recommendations for adjustments to 
                        the demonstration project.
                            (ix) The estimated costs avoided as a 
                        result of improved maternal and fetal health 
                        outcomes due to the demonstration project.
                            (x) Recommendations for extending the 
                        demonstration project or implementing permanent 
                        coverage under the TRICARE program of 
                        extramedical maternal health providers.
                            (xi) An identification of legislative or 
                        administrative action necessary to make the 
                        demonstration project permanent.
                    (C) Final report.--The final report under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted not later than 90 
                days after the termination of the demonstration 
                project.
    (g) Expansion of Demonstration Project.--
            (1) Regulations.--If the Secretary determines that the 
        demonstration project is successful, the Secretary may 
        prescribe regulations to include extramedical maternal health 
        providers as health care providers authorized to provide care 
        under the TRICARE program.
            (2) Credentialing and other requirements.--The Secretary 
        may establish credentialing and other requirements for doulas 
        and lactation consultants through public notice and comment 
        rulemaking for purposes of including doulas and lactation 
        consultations as health care providers authorized to provide 
        care under the TRICARE program pursuant to regulations 
        prescribed under paragraph (1).
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Extramedical maternal health provider.--The term 
        ``extramedical maternal health provider'' means a doula or 
        lactation consultant.
            (2) Covered beneficiary; tricare program.--The terms 
        ``covered beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United 
        States Code.

SEC. 707. PILOT PROGRAM ON RECEIPT OF NON-GENERIC PRESCRIPTION 
              MAINTENANCE MEDICATIONS UNDER TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot 
program under which eligible covered beneficiaries may elect to receive 
non-generic prescription maintenance medications selected under 
subsection (c) through military treatment facility pharmacies, retail 
pharmacies, or the national mail-order pharmacy program, 
notwithstanding section 1074g(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program for 
a three-year period beginning not later than March 1, 2021.
    (c) Selection of Medication.--The Secretary shall select non-
generic prescription maintenance medications described in section 
1074g(a)(9)(C)(i) of title 10, United States Code, to be covered by the 
pilot program.
    (d) Use of Voluntary Rebates.--
            (1) Requirement.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
        Secretary shall seek to renew and modify contracts described in 
        paragraph (2) in a manner that--
                    (A) includes for purposes of the pilot program 
                retail pharmacies as a point of sale for the non-
                generic prescription maintenance medication covered by 
                the contract; and
                    (B) provides the manufacturer with the option to 
                provide voluntary rebates for such medications at 
                retail pharmacies.
            (2) Contracts described.--The contracts described in this 
        paragraph are contracts for the procurement of non-generic 
        prescription maintenance medications selected under subsection 
        (c) that are eligible for renewal during the period in which 
        the pilot program is carried out.
    (e) Notification.--In providing each eligible covered beneficiary 
with an explanation of benefits, the Secretary shall notify the 
beneficiary of whether the medication that the beneficiary is 
prescribed is covered by the pilot program.
    (f) Briefing and Reports.--
            (1) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall brief the 
        congressional defense committees on the implementation of the 
        pilot program.
            (2) Interim report.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot 
        program.
            (3) Comptroller general report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2024, the 
                Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
                to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
                pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The number of eligible covered 
                        beneficiaries who participated in the pilot 
                        program and an assessment of the satisfaction 
                        of such beneficiaries with the pilot program.
                            (ii) The rate by which eligible covered 
                        beneficiaries elected to receive non-generic 
                        prescription maintenance medications at a 
                        retail pharmacy pursuant to the pilot program, 
                        and how such rate affected military treatment 
                        facility pharmacies and the national mail-order 
                        pharmacy program.
                            (iii) The amount of cost savings realized 
                        by the pilot program, including with respect 
                        to--
                                    (I) dispensing fees incurred at 
                                retail pharmacies compared to the 
                                national mail-order pharmacy program 
                                for brand name prescription drugs;
                                    (II) administrative fees;
                                    (III) any costs paid by the United 
                                States for the drugs in addition to the 
                                procurement costs;
                                    (IV) the use of military treatment 
                                facilities; and
                                    (V) copayments paid by eligible 
                                covered beneficiaries.
                            (iv) A comparison of supplemental rebates 
                        between retail pharmacies and other points of 
                        sale.
    (g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to affect the ability of the Secretary to carry out section 
1074g(a)(9)(C) of title 10, United States Code, after the date on which 
the pilot program is completed.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``eligible covered beneficiary'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 1074g(i) of title 10, United 
        States Code.
            (2) The terms ``military treatment facility pharmacies'', 
        ``retail pharmacies'', and ``the national mail-order pharmacy 
        program'' mean the methods for receiving prescription drugs as 
        described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, of 
        section 1074g(a)(2)(E) of title 10, United States Code.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 721. MODIFICATIONS TO TRANSFER OF ARMY MEDICAL RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT COMMAND AND PUBLIC HEALTH COMMANDS TO DEFENSE 
              HEALTH AGENCY.

    (a) Delay of Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1073c(e) of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
        by striking ``September 30, 2022'' and inserting ``September 
        30, 2024''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 737 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-
        92) is amended, in subsections (a) and (c), by striking 
        ``September 30, 2022'' and inserting ``September 30, 2024'' 
        each place it appears.
    (b) Modification To Resources Preserved.--Such section 737 is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``resources'' and 
        inserting ``infrastructure and personnel''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``resources'' and inserting 
                ``infrastructure and personnel''; and
                    (B) by striking ``, which shall include manpower 
                and funding, at not less than the level of such 
                resources''.
    (c) Elimination of Transfer of Funds.--Such section 737 is further 
amended by--
            (1) striking subsection (b); and
            (2) redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
    (d) Change of Name of Command.--
            (1) Delay of transfer.--Section 1073c(e)(1)(B) of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``Materiel'' and 
        inserting ``Development''.
            (2) Preservation of infrastructure and personnel.--Section 
        737 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking 
                ``materiel'' and inserting ``development''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Materiel'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``Development''.
    (e) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 is amended by striking 
the item relating to section 737 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 737. Preservation of infrastructure and personnel of the Army 
                            Medical Research and Development Command 
                            and continuation as Center of 
                            Excellence.''.

SEC. 722. DELAY OF APPLICABILITY OF ADMINISTRATION OF TRICARE DENTAL 
              PLANS THROUGH FEDERAL EMPLOYEES DENTAL AND VISION 
              INSURANCE PROGRAM.

    Section 713(c) of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 5 U.S.C. 8951 note) is 
amended by striking ``January 1, 2022'' and inserting ``January 1, 
2023''.

SEC. 723. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO WAIVE REQUIREMENTS 
              DURING NATIONAL EMERGENCIES FOR PURPOSES OF PROVISION OF 
              HEALTH CARE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1073d the following new section:
``Sec. 1073e. Authority to waive requirements during national 
              emergencies
    ``(a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to enable the 
Secretary of Defense to ensure, to the maximum extent feasible, in an 
emergency area during an emergency period--
            ``(1) that sufficient authorized health care items and 
        services are available to meet the needs of covered 
        beneficiaries in such area eligible for the programs under this 
        chapter; and
            ``(2) that private sector health care providers authorized 
        under the TRICARE program that furnish such authorized items 
        and services in good faith may be reimbursed for such items and 
        services absent any determination of fraud or abuse.
    ``(b) Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--To the extent necessary to accomplish 
        the purpose specified in subsection (a), the Secretary, subject 
        to the provisions of this section, may, for a period of 60 
        days, waive or modify the application of the requirements of 
        this chapter or any regulation prescribed thereunder with 
        respect to health care items and services furnished by a health 
        care provider (or class of health care providers) in an 
        emergency area (or portion of such area) during an emergency 
        period (or portion of such period), including by deferring the 
        termination of status of a covered beneficiary.
            ``(2) Renewal.--The Secretary may renew a waiver or 
        modification under paragraph (1) for subsequent 60-day periods 
        during the duration of the applicable emergency declaration.
    ``(c) Implementation.--The Secretary may implement any temporary 
waiver or modification made pursuant to this section by program 
instruction or otherwise.
    ``(d) Retroactive Application.--A waiver or modification made 
pursuant to this section with respect to an emergency period may, at 
the discretion of the Secretary, be made retroactive to the beginning 
of the emergency period or any subsequent date in such period specified 
by the Secretary.
    ``(e) Satisfaction of Preconditions for Status as Covered 
Beneficiary.--A deferral under subsection (b) of termination of status 
of a covered beneficiary may be contingent upon retroactive 
satisfaction by such beneficiary of any premium or enrollment fee 
payments or other preconditions for such status.
    ``(f) Certification.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than two days before 
        exercising a waiver or modification under subsection (b)(1) or 
        renewing a waiver or modification under subsection (b)(2), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives a certification and 
        advance written notice regarding the authority to be exercised.
            ``(2) Matters included.--Certification and advanced written 
        notice required under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    ``(A) a description of--
                            ``(i) the specific provisions of law that 
                        will be waived or modified;
                            ``(ii) the health care providers to whom 
                        the waiver or modification will apply;
                            ``(iii) the geographic area in which the 
                        waiver or modification will apply; and
                            ``(iv) the period of time for which the 
                        waiver or modification will be in effect; and
                    ``(B) a certification that the waiver or 
                modification is necessary to carry out the purpose 
                specified in subsection (a).
    ``(g) Termination of Waiver.--A waiver or modification of 
requirements pursuant to this section terminates upon the termination 
of the applicable emergency declaration.
    ``(h) Report.--Not later than one year after the end of an 
emergency period during which the Secretary exercised the authority 
under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on the approaches used to accomplish the purpose described in 
subsection (a), including an evaluation of such approaches and 
recommendations for improved approaches should the need for the 
exercise of such authority arise in the future.
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Emergency area.--The term `emergency area' means a 
        geographical area covered by an emergency declaration.
            ``(2) Emergency declaration.--The term `emergency 
        declaration' means--
                    ``(A) an emergency or disaster declared by the 
                President pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 
                U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
                Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et 
                seq.); or
                    ``(B) a public health emergency declared pursuant 
                to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
                U.S.C. 247d).
            ``(3) Emergency period.--The term `emergency period' means 
        the period covered by an emergency declaration.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 55 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1073d the following new item:

``1073e. Authority to waive requirements during national 
                            emergencies.''.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 741. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND.

    Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), as most recently 
amended by section 732(4)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2021'' and inserting ``September 30, 2022''.

SEC. 742. MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES 
              UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2113a(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(3) the Director of the Defense Health Agency, who shall 
        be an ex officio member;''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--The amendments made by this section may 
not be construed to invalidate any action taken by the Uniformed 
Services University of the Health Sciences or its Board of Regents 
prior to the effective date of this section.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2021.

SEC. 743. MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM CLINICAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Director of the Defense Health Agency, shall implement a comprehensive 
program to be known as the ``Military Health System Clinical Quality 
Management Program'' (in this section referred to as the ``Program'').
    (b) Elements of Program.--The Program shall include, at a minimum, 
the following:
            (1) The implementation of systematic procedures to 
        eliminate, to the maximum extent feasible, risk of harm to 
        patients at military medical treatment facilities, including 
        through identification, investigation, and analysis of events 
        indicating a risk of patient harm and corrective action plans 
        to mitigate such risks.
            (2) With respect to a potentially compensable event 
        (including those involving members of the Armed Forces) at a 
        military medical treatment facility--
                    (A) an analysis of such event, which shall occur 
                and be documented as soon as possible after the event;
                    (B) use of such analysis for clinical quality 
                management; and
                    (C) reporting of such event to the National 
                Practitioner Data Bank in accordance with guidelines of 
                the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the 
                Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 
                11101 et seq.), giving special emphasis to the results 
                of external peer reviews of the event.
            (3) Validation of provider credentials and granting of 
        clinical privileges by the Director of the Defense Health 
        Agency for all health care providers at a military medical 
        treatment facility.
            (4) Accreditation of military medical treatment facilities 
        by a recognized external accreditation body.
            (5) Systematic measurement of indicators of health care 
        quality, emphasizing clinical outcome measures, comparison of 
        such indicators with benchmarks from leading health care 
        quality improvement organizations, and transparency with the 
        public of appropriate clinical measurements for military 
        medical treatment facilities.
            (6) Systematic activities emphasized by leadership at all 
        organizational levels to use all elements of the Program to 
        eliminate unwanted variance throughout the health care system 
        of the Department of Defense and make constant improvements in 
        clinical quality.
            (7) A full range of procedures for productive communication 
        between patients and health care providers regarding actual or 
        perceived adverse clinical events at military medical treatment 
        facilities, including procedures--
                    (A) for full disclosure of such events (respecting 
                the confidentiality of peer review information under a 
                medical quality assurance program under section 1102 of 
                title 10, United States Code);
                    (B) providing an opportunity for the patient to be 
                heard in relation to quality reviews; and
                    (C) to resolve patient concerns by independent, 
                neutral healthcare resolution specialists.
    (c) Additional Clinical Quality Management Activities.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to the elements of the Program 
        set forth in subsection (b), the Secretary shall establish and 
        maintain clinical quality management activities in relation to 
        functions of the health care system of the Department separate 
        from delivery of health care services in military medical 
        treatment facilities.
            (2) Health care delivery outside military medical treatment 
        facilities.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        maintain policies and procedures to promote clinical quality in 
        health care delivery on ships and planes, in deployed settings, 
        and in all other circumstances not covered by subsection (b), 
        with the objective of implementing standards and procedures 
        comparable, to the extent practicable, to those under such 
        subsection.
            (3) Purchased care system.--In carrying out paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall maintain policies and procedures for health 
        care services provided outside the Department but paid for by 
        the Department, reflecting best practices by public and private 
        health care reimbursement and management systems.
    (d) Military Medical Treatment Facility Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``military medical treatment facility'' means any fixed 
facility or portion thereof of the Department of Defense that is 
outside of a deployed environment and used primarily for health care.

SEC. 744. MODIFICATIONS TO PILOT PROGRAM ON CIVILIAN AND MILITARY 
              PARTNERSHIPS TO ENHANCE INTEROPERABILITY AND MEDICAL 
              SURGE CAPABILITY AND CAPACITY OF NATIONAL DISASTER 
              MEDICAL SYSTEM.

    Section 740 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense may'' 
                and inserting ``Beginning not later than September 30, 
                2021, the Secretary of Defense shall''; and
                    (B) by striking ``health care organizations, 
                institutions, and entities'' and inserting ``health 
                care organizations, health care institutions, health 
                care entities, academic medical centers of institutions 
                of higher education, and hospitals''; and
                    (C) by striking ``in the vicinity of major 
                aeromedical and other transport hubs and logistics 
                centers of the Department of Defense'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following 
        new subsections:
    ``(c) Lead Official for Design and Implementation of Pilot 
Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Health Affairs shall be the lead official for design and 
        implementation of the pilot program under subsection (a).
            ``(2) Resources.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Health Affairs shall leverage the resources of the Defense 
        Health Agency for execution of the pilot program under 
        subsection (a) and shall coordinate with the Chairman of the 
        Joint Chiefs of Staff throughout the planning and duration of 
        the pilot program.
    ``(d) Locations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
        the pilot program under subsection (a) at not fewer than five 
        locations in the United States that are located at or near 
        locations with established expertise in disaster health 
        preparedness and response and trauma care that augment and 
        enhance the effectiveness of the pilot program.
            ``(2) Phased selection of locations.--
                    ``(A) Initial selection.--Not later than the 
                earlier of the date that is 180 days after the date of 
                the enactment of this Act or March 31, 2021, the 
                Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
                the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of 
                Transportation, shall select not fewer than two 
                locations at which to carry out the pilot program.
                    ``(B) Subsequent selection.--Not later than the end 
                of each one-year period following selection of 
                locations under subparagraph (A), the Assistant 
                Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
                the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of 
                Transportation, shall select not fewer than two 
                additional locations at which to carry out the pilot 
                program until not fewer than five locations are 
                selected in total.
            ``(3) Consideration and priority for locations.--In 
        selecting locations for the pilot program under subsection (a), 
        the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) consider--
                            ``(i) the proximity of the location to 
                        civilian or military transportation hubs, 
                        including airports, railways, interstate 
                        highways, or ports;
                            ``(ii) the ability of the location to 
                        accept a redistribution of casualties during 
                        times of war;
                            ``(iii) the ability of the location to 
                        provide trauma care training opportunities for 
                        medical personnel of the Department of Defense; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) the proximity of the location to 
                        existing academic medical centers of 
                        institutions of higher education, facilities of 
                        the Department, or other institutions that have 
                        established expertise in the areas of--
                                    ``(I) highly infectious disease;
                                    ``(II) biocontainment;
                                    ``(III) quarantine;
                                    ``(IV) trauma care;
                                    ``(V) combat casualty care;
                                    ``(VI) the National Disaster 
                                Medical System under section 2812 of 
                                the Public Health Service Act (42 
                                U.S.C. 300hh-11);
                                    ``(VII) disaster health 
                                preparedness and response;
                                    ``(VIII) medical and public health 
                                management of biological, chemical, 
                                radiological, or nuclear hazards; or
                                    ``(IX) such other areas of 
                                expertise as the Secretary considers 
                                appropriate; and
                    ``(B) give priority to public-private partnerships 
                with academic medical centers of institutions of higher 
                education, hospitals, and other entities with 
                facilities that have an established history of 
                providing clinical care, treatment, training, and 
                research in the areas described in subparagraph (A)(ii) 
                or other specializations determined important by the 
                Secretary for purposes of the pilot program.'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (d) through (f) as 
        subsections (e) through (g), respectively;
            (4) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the 
                        commencement of the pilot program under 
                        subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the initial 
                        selection of locations for the pilot program 
                        under subsection (d)(2)(A)''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) in clause (ii), by striking 
                                ``subsection (d)'' and inserting 
                                ``subsection (e)'';
                                    (II) in clause (iii), by striking 
                                ``subsection (e)'' and inserting 
                                ``subsection (f)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)(B)(iv), by striking ``the 
                authority for''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Institution of Higher Education Defined.--In this section, 
the term `institution of higher education' means a four-year 
institution of higher education, as defined in section 101(a) of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).''.

SEC. 745. STUDY ON FORCE MIX OPTIONS AND SERVICE MODELS TO ENHANCE 
              READINESS OF MEDICAL FORCE OF THE ARMED FORCES TO PROVIDE 
              COMBAT CASUALTY CARE.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into an agreement with a federally funded research and development 
center or other independent entity to perform a study on force mix 
options and service models (including traditional and nontraditional 
active and reserve models) to optimize the readiness of the medical 
force of the Armed Forces to deliver combat care on the battlefield.
    (b) Issues To Be Addressed.--The study required by subsection (a) 
shall include, at a minimum--
            (1) with respect to options relating to members of the 
        Armed Forces on active duty--
                    (A) a review of existing models for such members 
                who are medical professionals to support clinical 
                readiness skills by serving in civilian trauma centers;
                    (B) an assessment of the extent to which existing 
                models can be optimized, standardized, and scaled to 
                address current readiness shortfalls; and
                    (C) an evaluation of the cost and effectiveness of 
                alternative models for such members who are medical 
                professionals to serve in civilian trauma centers; and
            (2) with respect to options relating to members of the 
        reserve components of the Armed Forces--
                    (A) a review of existing models for such members of 
                the reserve components who are medical professionals to 
                support clinical readiness skills by serving in 
                civilian trauma centers;
                    (B) an assessment of the extent to which existing 
                models can be optimized, standardized, and scaled to 
                address current readiness shortfalls; and
                    (C) an evaluation of the cost and effectiveness of 
                alternative models for such members of the reserve 
                components who are medical professionals to serve in 
                civilian trauma centers.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on the findings and recommendations of the independent study required 
by subsection (a).

SEC. 746. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON DELIVERY OF MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES TO MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the delivery of Federal, State, and private mental 
health services to members of the reserve components.
    (b) Elements.--The study conducted under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) identify all programs, coverage, and costs associated 
        with services described in such subsection;
            (2) specify gaps or barriers to access that could result in 
        delayed or insufficient mental health care support to members 
        of the reserve components.
            (3) evaluate the mental health screening requirements for 
        members of the reserve components immediately before, during, 
        and after--
                    (A) Federal deployment under title 10, United 
                States Code; or
                    (B) State deployment under title 32, United States 
                Code; and
            (4) provide recommendations when practicable to strengthen 
        the reintegration of members of the reserve components, 
        including an assessment of the effectiveness of making 
        programming mandatory.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the study conducted under subsection (a).
    (d) Reserve Component Defined.--In this section, the term ``reserve 
component'' means a reserve component of the Armed Forces named in 
section 10101 of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 747. REVIEW AND REPORT ON PREVENTION OF SUICIDE AMONG MEMBERS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES STATIONED AT REMOTE INSTALLATIONS 
              OUTSIDE THE CONTIGUOUS UNITED STATES.

    (a) Review Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall conduct a review of efforts by the Department of Defense to 
prevent suicide among members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered 
installations.
    (b) Elements of Review.--The review conducted under subsection (a) 
shall include an assessment of each of the following:
            (1) Current policy guidelines of the Armed Forces on the 
        prevention of suicide among members of the Armed Forces 
        stationed at covered installations.
            (2) Current suicide prevention programs of the Armed Forces 
        and activities for members of the Armed Forces stationed at 
        covered installations and their dependents, including programs 
        provided by the Defense Health Program and the Office of 
        Suicide Prevention.
            (3) The integration of mental health screenings and suicide 
        risk and prevention efforts for members of the Armed Forces 
        stationed at covered installations and their dependents into 
        the delivery of primary care for such members and dependents.
            (4) The standards for responding to attempted or completed 
        suicides among members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered 
        installations and their dependents, including guidance and 
        training to assist commanders in addressing incidents of 
        attempted or completed suicide within their units.
            (5) The standards regarding data collection for members of 
        the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations and their 
        dependents, including related factors such as domestic violence 
        and child abuse.
            (6) The means to ensure the protection of privacy of 
        members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations 
        and their dependents who seek or receive treatment related to 
        suicide prevention.
            (7) The availability of information from indigenous 
        populations on suicide prevention for members of the Armed 
        Forces stationed at covered installations who are members of 
        such a population.
            (8) The availability of information from graduate research 
        programs of institutions of higher education on suicide 
        prevention for members of the Armed Forces.
            (9) Such other matters as the Comptroller General considers 
        appropriate in connection with the prevention of suicide among 
        members of the Armed Forces stationed at covered installations 
        and their dependents.
    (c) Briefing and Report.--The Comptroller General shall--
            (1) not later than October 1, 2021, brief the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
        on preliminary observations relating to the review conducted 
        under subsection (a); and
            (2) not later than March 1, 2022, submit to the Committees 
        on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report containing the results of such review.
    (d) Covered Installation Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered installation'' means a remote installation of the Department 
of Defense outside the contiguous United States.

SEC. 748. AUDIT OF MEDICAL CONDITIONS OF TENANTS IN PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense shall commence the conduct of an audit of the medical 
conditions of eligible individuals and the association between adverse 
exposures of such individuals in unsafe or unhealthy housing units and 
the health of such individuals.
    (b) Content of Audit.--The audit conducted under subsection (a) 
shall--
            (1) determine the percentage of units of privatized 
        military housing that are unsafe or unhealthy housing units;
            (2) study the adverse exposures of eligible individuals 
        that relate to residing in an unsafe or unhealthy housing unit 
        and the effect of such exposures on the health of such 
        individuals; and
            (3) determine the association, to the extent permitted by 
        available scientific data, and provide quantifiable data on 
        such association, between such adverse exposures and the 
        occurrence of a medical condition in eligible individuals 
        residing in unsafe or unhealthy housing units.
    (c) Conduct of Audit.--The Inspector General of the Department 
shall conduct the audit under subsection (a) using the same privacy 
preserving guidelines used by the Inspector General in conducting other 
audits of health records.
    (d) Source of Data.--In conducting the audit under subsection (a), 
the Inspector General of the Department shall use--
            (1) de-identified data from electronic health records of 
        the Department;
            (2) records of claims under the TRICARE program (as defined 
        in section 1072(7) of title 10, United States Code); and
            (3) such other data as determined necessary by the 
        Inspector General.
    (e) Submittal and Public Availability of Report.--Not later than 
one year after the commencement of the audit under subsection (a), the 
Inspector General of the Department shall--
            (1) submit to the Secretary of Defense and the Committees 
        on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the results of the audit conducted 
        under subsection (a); and
            (2) publish such report on a publicly available internet 
        website of the Department of Defense.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible individual.--The term ``eligible individual'' 
        means a member of the Armed Forces or a family member of a 
        member of the Armed Forces who has resided in an unsafe or 
        unhealthy housing unit.
            (2) Privatized military housing.--The term ``privatized 
        military housing'' means military housing provided under 
        subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code.
            (3) Unsafe or unhealthy housing unit.--The term ``unsafe or 
        unhealthy housing unit'' means a unit of privatized military 
        housing in which, at any given time, at least one of the 
        following hazards is present:
                    (A) Physiological hazards, including the following:
                            (i) Dampness or microbial growth.
                            (ii) Lead-based paint.
                            (iii) Asbestos or manmade fibers.
                            (iv) Ionizing radiation.
                            (v) Biocides.
                            (vi) Carbon monoxide.
                            (vii) Volatile organic compounds.
                            (viii) Infectious agents.
                            (ix) Fine particulate matter.
                    (B) Psychological hazards, including ease of access 
                by unlawful intruders or lighting issues.
                    (C) Poor ventilation.
                    (D) Safety hazards.
                    (E) Other hazards as determined by the Inspector 
                General of the Department.

SEC. 749. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON PRENATAL AND POSTPARTUM MENTAL 
              HEALTH CONDITIONS AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
              THEIR DEPENDENTS.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study on prenatal and postpartum mental 
        health conditions among members of the Armed Forces and 
        dependents of such members.
            (2) Elements.--The study required under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the extent to which 
                beneficiaries under the TRICARE program, including 
                members of the Armed Forces and dependents of such 
                members, are diagnosed with prenatal or postpartum 
                mental health conditions, including--
                            (i) prenatal or postpartum depression;
                            (ii) prenatal or postpartum anxiety 
                        disorder;
                            (iii) prenatal or postpartum obsessive 
                        compulsive disorder;
                            (iv) prenatal or postpartum psychosis; and
                            (v) other relevant mood disorders.
                    (B) A demographic assessment of the population 
                included in the study with respect to race, ethnicity, 
                sex, age, relationship status, military service, 
                military occupation, and rank, where applicable.
                    (C) An assessment of the status of prenatal and 
                postpartum mental health care for beneficiaries under 
                the TRICARE program, including those who seek care at 
                military medical treatment facilities and those who 
                rely on civilian providers.
                    (D) An assessment of the ease or delay for 
                beneficiaries under the TRICARE program in obtaining 
                treatment for prenatal and postpartum mental health 
                conditions, including--
                            (i) an assessment of wait times for mental 
                        health treatment at each military medical 
                        treatment facility; and
                            (ii) a description of the reasons such 
                        beneficiaries may cease seeking such treatment.
                    (E) A comparison of the rates of prenatal or 
                postpartum mental health conditions within the military 
                community to such rates in the civilian population, as 
                reported by the Centers for Disease Control and 
                Prevention.
                    (F) An assessment of any effects of implicit or 
                explicit bias in prenatal and postpartum mental health 
                care under the TRICARE program, or evidence of racial 
                or socioeconomic barriers to such care.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the findings of the study conducted under 
subsection (a), including--
            (1) recommendations for actions to be taken by the 
        Secretary of Defense to improve prenatal and postpartum mental 
        health among members of the Armed Forces and dependents of such 
        members; and
            (2) such other recommendations as the Comptroller General 
        determines appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``dependent'' and 
``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 
of title 10, United States Code.

SEC. 750. PLAN FOR EVALUATION OF FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNT OPTIONS FOR 
              MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES AND THEIR FAMILIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to 
evaluate flexible spending account options that allow pre-tax payment 
of health and dental insurance premiums, out-of-pocket health care 
expenses, and dependent care expenses for members of the uniformed 
services and their family members, including an identification of any 
legislative or administrative barriers to achieving the implementation 
of such options.
    (b) Uniformed Services Defined.--In this section, the term 
``uniformed services'' has the meaning given that term in section 101 
of title 37, United States Code.

SEC. 751. ASSESSMENT OF RECEIPT BY CIVILIANS OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
              TREATMENT AT MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.

    (a) Assessment.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall complete an assessment of the provision by the Department of 
Defense of emergency medical treatment to civilians who are not covered 
beneficiaries at military medical treatment facilities during the 
period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on September 30, 2020.
    (b) Elements of Assessment.--The assessment completed under 
subsection (a) shall include, with respect to civilians who received 
emergency medical treatment at a military medical treatment facility 
during the period specified in such paragraph, the following:
            (1) The total fees charged to such civilians for such 
        treatment and the total fees collected.
            (2) The amount of medical debt from such treatment that was 
        garnished from such civilians, categorized by garnishment from 
        Social Security benefits, tax refunds, wages, or other 
        financial asset.
            (3) The number of such civilians from whom medical debt 
        from such treatment was garnished.
            (4) The total fees for such treatment that were waived for 
        such civilians.
            (5) With respect to medical debt incurred by such civilians 
        from such treatment--
                    (A) the amount of such debt that was collected by 
                the Department of Defense;
                    (B) the amount of such debt still owed to the 
                Department; and
                    (C) the amount of debt transferred from the 
                Department of Defense to the Department of the Treasury 
                for collection.
            (6) The number of such civilians from whom such medical 
        debt was collected who did not possess medical insurance at the 
        time of such treatment.
            (7) The number of such civilians from whom such medical 
        debt was collected who collected Social Security benefits at 
        the time of such treatment.
            (8) The number of such civilians from whom such medical 
        debt was collected who, at the time of such treatment, earned--
                    (A) less than the poverty line;
                    (B) less than 200 percent of the poverty line;
                    (C) less than 300 percent of the poverty line; and
                    (D) less than 400 percent of the poverty line.
            (9) An assessment of the process through which military 
        medical treatment facilities seek to recover unpaid medical 
        debt from such civilians, including whether the Department of 
        Defense contracts with private debt collectors to recover such 
        unpaid medical debt.
            (10) An assessment of the process, if any, through which 
        such civilians can apply to have medical debt for such 
        treatment waived, forgiven, canceled, or otherwise determined 
        to not be a financial obligation of the civilian.
            (11) Such other information as the Comptroller General 
        determines appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the completion of the 
assessment under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report containing the results of the assessment.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Civilian.--The term ``civilian'' means an individual 
        who is not--
                    (A) a member of the Armed Forces;
                    (B) a contractor of the Department of Defense; or
                    (C) a civilian employee of the Department.
            (2) Covered beneficiary.--The term ``covered beneficiary'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 1072(5) of title 10, 
        United States Code.
            (3) Poverty line.--The term ``poverty line'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 673 of the Community 
        Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902).

SEC. 752. REPORT ON BILLING PRACTICES FOR HEALTH CARE FROM DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Through the TRICARE program, the Department of Defense 
        provides health care benefits and services to approximately 
        9,500,000 beneficiaries.
            (2) The Department of Defense is not structured as a 
        typical health care provider, which can lead to complicated 
        billing practices and strict deadlines for members of the Armed 
        Forces, former members of the Armed Forces, and their 
        dependents, as well as for providers.
            (3) Numerous findings issued by the Inspector General of 
        the Department of Defense between 2014 and 2019 describe the 
        third-party collection program of the Department as 
        inadequately managed, resulting in substantial uncollected 
        funds that could be used to improve the quality of health care 
        at military medical treatment facilities.
            (4) Numerous press reports have found that the Federal 
        Government aggressively collects unpaid debts from uninsured or 
        low-income civilian patients who happen to receive treatment at 
        a military medical treatment facility, even though providing 
        that treatment often benefits military readiness by providing 
        experience to military medical professionals.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that it is in 
the national interest of the United States to ensure members of the 
Armed Forces, former members of the Armed Forces, and their dependents 
receive high-quality health care, and that Federal agencies prioritize 
fairness and accessibility when administering health care.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to Congress a report assessing the 
        billing practices of the Department of Defense for care 
        received under the TRICARE program or at military medical 
        treatment facilities.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the extent to which data is 
                being collected and maintained on whether beneficiaries 
                under the TRICARE program have other forms of health 
                insurance.
                    (B) A description of the extent to which the 
                Secretary of Defense has implemented the 
                recommendations of the Inspector General of the 
                Department of Defense to improve collections of third-
                party payments for care at military medical treatment 
                facilities and a description of the impact such 
                implementation has had on such beneficiaries.
                    (C) A description of the extent to which the 
                process used by managed care support contractors under 
                the TRICARE program to adjudicate third-party liability 
                claims is efficient and effective, including with 
                respect to communication with such beneficiaries.
    (d) TRICARE Program Defined.--In this section, the term ``TRICARE 
program'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 of title 10, 
United States Code.

SEC. 753. ACCESS OF VETERANS TO INDIVIDUAL LONGITUDINAL EXPOSURE 
              RECORD.

    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall provide to a veteran read-only access to 
the documents of the veteran contained in the Individual Longitudinal 
Exposure Record in a printable format through a portal accessible 
through a website of the Department of Veterans Affairs and a website 
of the Department of Defense.

SEC. 754. STUDY ON THE INCIDENCE OF CANCER DIAGNOSIS AND MORTALITY 
              AMONG MILITARY AVIATORS AND AVIATION SUPPORT PERSONNEL.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in conjunction 
        with the National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer 
        Institute, shall conduct a study on cancer among covered 
        individuals in two phases as provided in this subsection.
            (2) Phase 1.--
                    (A) In general.--Under the initial phase of the 
                study conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary of 
                Defense shall determine if there is a higher incidence 
                of cancers occurring for covered individuals as 
                compared to similar age groups in the general 
                population through the use of the database of the 
                Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program of 
                the National Cancer Institute.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than one year after the date 
                of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
                report on the findings of the initial phase of the 
                study under subparagraph (A).
            (3) Phase 2.--
                    (A) In general.--If, pursuant to the initial phase 
                of the study under paragraph (2), the Secretary 
                concludes that there is an increased rate of cancers 
                among covered individuals, the Secretary shall conduct 
                a second phase of the study under which the Secretary 
                shall do the following:
                            (i) Identify the carcinogenic toxins or 
                        hazardous materials associated with military 
                        flight operations from shipboard or land bases 
                        or facilities, such as fuels, fumes, and other 
                        liquids.
                            (ii) Identify the operating environments, 
                        including frequencies or electromagnetic 
                        fields, where exposure to ionizing radiation 
                        (associated with high altitude flight) and 
                        nonionizing radiation (associated with 
                        airborne, ground, and shipboard radars) 
                        occurred in which covered individuals could 
                        have received increased radiation amounts.
                            (iii) Identify, for each covered 
                        individual, duty stations, dates of service, 
                        aircraft flown, and additional duties 
                        (including Landing Safety Officer, Catapult and 
                        Arresting Gear Officer, Air Liaison Officer, 
                        Tactical Air Control Party, or personnel 
                        associated with aircraft maintenance, supply, 
                        logistics, fuels, or transportation) that could 
                        have increased the risk of cancer for such 
                        covered individual.
                            (iv) Determine locations where a covered 
                        individual served or additional duties of a 
                        covered individual that are associated with 
                        higher incidences of cancers.
                            (v) Identify potential exposures due to 
                        service in the Armed Forces that are not 
                        related to aviation, such as exposure to burn 
                        pits or toxins in contaminated water, embedded 
                        in the soil, or inside bases or housing.
                            (vi) Determine the appropriate age to begin 
                        screening covered individuals for cancer based 
                        on race, gender, flying hours, period of 
                        service as aviation support personnel, Armed 
                        Force, type of aircraft, and mission.
                    (B) Data.--The Secretary shall format all data 
                included in the study conducted under this paragraph in 
                accordance with the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
                Results program of the National Cancer Institute, 
                including by disaggregating such data by race, gender, 
                and age.
                    (C) Report.--Not later than one year after the 
                submittal of the report under paragraph (2)(B), if the 
                Secretary conducts the second phase of the study under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
                findings of the study conducted under this paragraph.
            (4) Use of data from previous studies.--In conducting the 
        study under this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        incorporate data from previous studies conducted by the Air 
        Force, the Navy, or the Marine Corps that are relevant to the 
        study under this subsection, including data from the 
        comprehensive study conducted by the Air Force identifying each 
        covered individual and documenting the cancers, dates of 
        diagnoses, and mortality of each covered individual.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committee of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Armed forces.--The term ``Armed Forces''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term ``armed forces'' 
                in section 101 of title 10, United States Code; and
                    (B) includes the reserve components named in 
                section 10101 of such title.
            (3) Covered individual.--The term ``covered individual''--
                    (A) means an aviator or aviation support personnel 
                who--
                            (i) served in the Armed Forces on or after 
                        February 28, 1961; and
                            (ii) receives benefits under chapter 55 of 
                        title 10, United States Code; and
                    (B) includes any air crew member of fixed-wing 
                aircraft and personnel supporting generation of the 
                aircraft, including pilots, navigators, weapons systems 
                operators, aircraft system operators, personnel 
                associated with aircraft maintenance, supply, 
                logistics, fuels, or transportation, and any other crew 
                member who regularly flies in an aircraft or is 
                required to complete the mission of the aircraft.

Subtitle D--Mental Health Services From Department of Veterans Affairs 
                   for Members of Reserve Components

SEC. 761. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Care and Readiness Enhancement 
for Reservists Act of 2020'' or the ``CARE for Reservists Act of 
2020''.

SEC. 762. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR READJUSTMENT COUNSELING AND 
              RELATED OUTPATIENT SERVICES FROM DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS TO INCLUDE MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Readjustment Counseling.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 1712A of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
    ``(D)(i) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Defense, may furnish to any member of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces who has a behavioral health condition or psychological 
trauma, counseling under subparagraph (A)(i), which may include a 
comprehensive individual assessment under subparagraph (B)(i).
    ``(ii) A member of the reserve components of the Armed Forces 
described in clause (i) shall not be required to obtain a referral 
before being furnished counseling or an assessment under this 
subparagraph.''.
    (b) Outpatient Services.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``to an individual'' after ``If, 
                on the basis of the assessment furnished''; and
                    (B) by striking ``veteran'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``individual''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``veteran'' and inserting 
        ``individual''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 763. PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FROM DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS TO MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1789. Mental health services for members of the reserve 
              components of the Armed Forces
    ``The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, may 
furnish mental health services to members of the reserve components of 
the Armed Forces.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1788 the following new item:

``1789. Mental health services for members of the reserve components of 
                            the Armed Forces.''.

SEC. 764. INCLUSION OF MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS IN MENTAL HEALTH 
              PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Suicide Prevention Program.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1720F of title 38, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(l)(1) Covered Individual Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered individual' means a veteran or a member of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces.
    ``(2) In determining coverage of members of the reserve components 
of the Armed Forces under the comprehensive program, the Secretary 
shall consult with the Secretary of Defense.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Such section is further 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``veterans'' and 
                inserting ``covered individuals'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``veterans'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``covered 
                individuals'';
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                        ``of Veterans'';
                            (ii) by striking ``veterans'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``covered individuals''; 
                        and
                            (iii) by striking ``veteran'' and inserting 
                        ``individual'';
                    (D) in subsection (d), by striking ``to veterans'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``to covered 
                individuals'';
                    (E) in subsection (e), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``veterans'' and inserting 
                ``covered individuals'';
                    (F) in subsection (f)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``veterans'' and inserting ``covered 
                        individuals''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by inserting 
                        ``or members'' after ``veterans'';
                    (G) in subsection (g), by striking ``veterans'' and 
                inserting ``covered individuals'';
                    (H) in subsection (h), by striking ``veterans'' and 
                inserting ``covered individuals'';
                    (I) in subsection (i)--
                            (i) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                        ``for Veterans and Families'';
                            (ii) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``veterans and the families of 
                        veterans'' and inserting ``covered individuals 
                        and the families of covered individuals'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking 
                        ``veterans'' and inserting ``covered 
                        individuals''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4), by striking 
                        ``veterans'' each place it appears and 
                        inserting ``covered individuals'';
                    (J) in subsection (j)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        ``veterans'' each place it appears and 
                        inserting ``covered individuals''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A), in the 
                                matter preceding clause (i), by 
                                striking ``women veterans'' and 
                                inserting ``covered individuals who are 
                                women'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``women veterans who'' and 
                                inserting ``covered individuals who are 
                                women and''; and
                                    (III) in subparagraph (C), by 
                                striking ``women veterans'' and 
                                inserting ``covered individuals who are 
                                women''; and
                    (K) in subsection (k), by striking ``veterans'' and 
                inserting ``covered individuals''.
            (3) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--Such section is further amended, 
                in the section heading, by inserting ``and members of 
                the reserve components of the Armed Forces'' after 
                ``veterans''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of such subchapter is amended by striking 
                the item relating to section 1720F and inserting the 
                following new item:

``1720F. Comprehensive program for suicide prevention among veterans 
                            and members of the reserve components of 
                            the Armed Forces.''.
    (b) Mental Health Treatment for Individuals Who Served in 
Classified Missions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1720H of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) by striking ``eligible 
                                veteran'' and inserting ``eligible 
                                individual''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``the veteran'' 
                                and inserting ``the individual''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                        ``eligible veterans'' and inserting ``eligible 
                        individuals'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ``a veteran'' and inserting 
                        ``an individual''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``eligible veteran'' and 
                        inserting ``eligible individual''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), in the matter 
                        preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``The 
                        term `eligible veteran' means a veteran'' and 
                        inserting ``The term `eligible individual' 
                        means a veteran or a member of the reserve 
                        components of the Armed Forces''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking 
                        ``eligible veteran'' and inserting ``eligible 
                        individual''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--
                    (A) In general.--Such section is further amended, 
                in the section heading, by inserting ``and members of 
                the reserve components of the Armed Forces'' after 
                ``veterans''.
                    (B) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 1720H and 
                inserting the following new item:

``1720H. Mental health treatment for veterans and members of the 
                            reserve components of the Armed Forces who 
                            served in classified missions.''.

SEC. 765. REPORT ON MENTAL HEALTH AND RELATED SERVICES PROVIDED BY 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a 
report that includes an assessment of the following:
            (1) The increase, as compared to the day before the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, of the number of members of the 
        Armed Forces that use readjustment counseling or outpatient 
        mental health care from the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
        disaggregated by State, Vet Center location, and clinical care 
        site of the Department, as appropriate.
            (2) The number of members of the reserve components of the 
        Armed Forces receiving telemental health care from the 
        Department.
            (3) The increase, as compared to the day before the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, of the annual cost associated with 
        readjustment counseling and outpatient mental health care 
        provided by the Department to members of the reserve components 
        of the Armed Forces.
            (4) The changes, as compared to the day before the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, in staffing, training, organization, 
        and resources required for the Department to offer readjustment 
        counseling and outpatient mental health care to members of the 
        reserve components of the Armed Forces.
            (5) Any challenges the Department has encountered in 
        providing readjustment counseling and outpatient mental health 
        care to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Vet Center Defined.--In this section, the term ``Vet Center'' 
has the meaning given that term in section 1712A(h) of title 38, United 
States Code.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

                  Subtitle A--Industrial Base Matters

SEC. 801. POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 
              13806 (ASSESSING AND STRENGTHENING THE MANUFACTURING AND 
              DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE AND SUPPLY CHAIN RESILIENCY).

    (a) Submission of Recommendations to Secretary of Defense.--In 
order to fully implement the July 21, 2017, Presidential Executive 
Order on Assessing and Strengthening the Manufacturing and Defense 
Industrial Base and Supply Chain Resiliency of the United States, not 
later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit 
to the Secretary of Defense a series of recommendations regarding 
United States industrial policies. The recommendations shall consist of 
specific executive actions, programmatic changes, regulatory changes, 
and legislative proposals and changes, as appropriate.
    (b) Scope of Assessment.--In developing the recommendations 
required under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall assess--
            (1) direct subsidies and investment in the economy;
            (2) direct provision of credit and purchases of private 
        sector bonds and equity;
            (3) prize-based technology challenges for critical research 
        and development milestones;
            (4) capital controls and dollar policy;
            (5) trade policy, including export control policy, 
        government acquisition policy, and targeted protectionist 
        policies;
            (6) export promotion policies;
            (7) foreign talent attraction and retention;
            (8) graduate education policy; and
            (9) expansion of existing or establishment of new public-
        private partnerships, including the Trusted Capital 
        Marketplace.
    (c) Objectives.--The recommendations made pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall aim to--
            (1) facilitate only high-value design, engineering, and 
        manufacturing activities;
            (2) expand the defense industrial base to include friendly 
        and capable allies and partners;
            (3) preserve the viability of domestic and international 
        suppliers;
            (4) include export and productivity incentives;
            (5) accord with standing international trade law; and
            (6) strengthen the domestic national security industrial 
        base, especially in areas currently dependent on foreign 
        suppliers.
    (d) Consultation.--In assessing the areas specified in subsection 
(b) and developing the recommendations required under subsection (a), 
the Under Secretary shall consult or inaugurate studies with, as 
appropriate, the Joint Industrial Base Working Group, the Defense 
Science Board, the Defense Innovation Board, economists, commercial 
industry, and federally funded research and development centers.
    (e) Submission of Recommendations to President.--Not later than 30 
days after receiving the recommendations under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit the recommendations, together with 
any additional views or recommendations, to the President, the Office 
of Management and Budget, the National Security Council, and the 
National Economic Council.
    (f) Submission of Recommendations to Congress.--Not later than 30 
days after submitting the recommendations to the President under 
section (e), the Secretary of Defense shall submit the recommendations 
to and brief the congressional defense committees on the 
recommendations.

SEC. 802. ASSESSMENT OF NATIONAL SECURITY INNOVATION BASE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the Secretary of Defense an assessment of the economic forces and 
structures shaping the capacity of the national security innovation 
base and policy recommendations pertaining to the outcome of such 
assessment.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) shall 
review the following matters as they pertain to the innovative and 
manufacturing capacity of the national security innovation base:
            (1) Competition and antitrust policy.
            (2) Immigration policy, including the policies germane to 
        the attraction and retention of skilled immigrants.
            (3) Graduate education funding and policy.
            (4) Demand stabilization and social safety net policies.
            (5) The structure and incentives of financial markets and 
        businesses' access to credit.
            (6) Trade policy, including export control policy.
            (7) The tax code and its effect on investment, including 
        the Federal research and development tax credit.
            (8) Deregulation in critical economic sectors, land use, 
        environment review, and construction and manufacturing 
        activities.
            (9) National economic and manufacturing infrastructure.
            (10) Intellectual property reform.
            (11) Federally funded investments in the economy, including 
        research and development and advanced manufacturing.
            (12) Federally funded procurement of goods and services.
            (13) Federally funded investments to expand domestic 
        manufacturing capabilities.
    (c) Engagement With Certain Entities.--In conducting the assessment 
required under subsection (a), the Deputy Secretary shall engage 
through appropriate mechanisms with the Defense Science Board, the 
Defense Innovation Board, the Defense Business Board, academic experts, 
commercial industry, and federally funded research and development 
centers.
    (d) Submission of Assessment.--Not later than 30 days after 
receiving the assessment and recommendations under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit the assessment, together with 
recommendations and any additional views of the Secretary, to the 
President, the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security 
Council, the National Economic Council, and the congressional defense 
committees.

SEC. 803. IMPROVING IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY PERTAINING TO THE NATIONAL 
              TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) National Technology and Industrial Base Implementation.--
            (1) Assessment of research and development, manufacturing, 
        and production capabilities.--
                    (A) In general.--In developing the strategy 
                required by section 2501 of title 10, United States 
                Code, carrying out the analysis of the national 
                technology and industrial base required by section 2503 
                of such title, and performing the periodic assessments 
                required under section 2505 of such title, the 
                Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment and the Under Secretary of Research and 
                Engineering, assess the research and development, 
                manufacturing, and production capabilities of entities 
                within the United States and non-United States members 
                of the national technology and industrial base as well 
                as other friendly nations.
                    (B) Identification of specific technologies, 
                companies, laboratories, and factories.--The assessment 
                shall include identification of specific technologies, 
                companies, laboratories, and factories of or located in 
                the United States and the non-United States members of 
                the national technology and industrial base of 
                potential value to current and future Department of 
                Defense plans and programs.
            (2) Policy and guidance.--Consistent with section 2440 of 
        title 10, United States Code, the Under Secretary of Defense 
        for Acquisition and Sustainment shall develop and promulgate to 
        the service and command acquisition executives, the heads of 
        the appropriate defense agencies and field activities, and 
        relevant program managers acquisition policy and guidance 
        germane to the use of the research and development, 
        manufacturing, and production capabilities identified pursuant 
        to paragraph (1)(B) and the technologies, companies, 
        laboratories, and factories in specific Department of Defense 
        research and development, international cooperative research, 
        procurement, and sustainment activities.
    (b) Cooperative Research and Development.--
            (1) Authority to enter into cooperative research and 
        development projects with nations in the national technology 
        and industrial base.--Section 2350a(a)(2) of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(F) A nation in the National Technology and Industrial 
        Base, as defined by section 2500 of title 10, United States 
        Code.''.
            (2) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        revise the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation to conform with subparagraph (F) of 
        section 2350a(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, as added 
        by paragraph (1).
    (c) Regulatory Council.--Section 2502 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) National Technology and Industrial Base Regulatory Council.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--The Chairman of the National Defense 
        Technology and Industrial Base Council shall work with the 
        equivalent designees in the countries that comprise the 
        national technology and industrial base to establish the 
        National Technology and Industrial Base Regulatory Council.
            ``(2) Meetings.--The National Technology and Industrial 
        Base Regulatory Council shall meet biannually to harmonize 
        respective policies and regulations, and to propose new 
        legislation and regulations that increase the integration 
        between the policies, persons, and organizations comprising the 
        national technology and industrial base.
            ``(3) Duties.--The National Technology and Industrial Base 
        Regulatory Council shall--
                    ``(A) address and review issues related to 
                industrial security, supply chain security, 
                cybersecurity, regulating foreign direct investment and 
                foreign ownership, control and influence mitigation, 
                market research, technology assessment, and research 
                cooperation within public and private research and 
                development organizations and universities, technology 
                and export control measures, acquisition processes and 
                oversight, and management best practices; and
                    ``(B) establish a mechanism for national technology 
                and industrial base members to raise disputes that 
                arise within the national technology and industrial 
                base at a government-to-government level.''.
    (d) Recommendations for Additional Members of the National 
Technology and Industrial Base.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
        process to consider the inclusion of additional member nations 
        in the national technology and industrial base.
            (2) Elements.--The process developed under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) analysis of the national security costs and 
                benefits to the United States and allies of the 
                inclusion of such additional member nation in the 
                national technology and industrial base;
                    (B) analysis of the economic costs and benefits to 
                entities within the United States and allies of the 
                inclusion of such additional member nation into the 
                national technology and industrial base, including an 
                assessment of--
                            (i) specific shortfalls in the 
                        technological and industrial capacities of 
                        current member nations of the national 
                        technology and industrial base that would be 
                        addressed by inclusion of such additional 
                        member nation; and
                            (ii) specific areas in the industrial bases 
                        of current member nations of the national 
                        technology and industrial base that would 
                        likely be impacted by additional competition if 
                        such additional nation were included in the 
                        national technology and industrial base; and
                    (C) analysis of other factors as determined 
                relevant by the Secretary.
            (3) Recommended legislation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may 
                submit legislative proposals to Congress to add new 
                nations to the national technology and industrial base.
                    (B) Elements.--Proposals submitted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following elements:
                            (i) A summary of the analyses performed 
                        pursuant to subsection (d)(2).
                            (ii) A set of metrics to assess the 
                        national security and economic benefits that 
                        such inclusion is expected to accrue to 
                        entities within the United States and allied 
                        nations.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report with recommendations 
        regarding whether to include in the national technology and 
        industrial base each country with which the United States 
        maintains a mutual defense treaty, a reciprocal defense 
        procurement agreement, or other defense cooperation agreement. 
        The report shall be based on assessments conducted using the 
        process established under paragraph (1) and shall include, for 
        each country recommended for inclusion, the information 
        specified in paragraph (3)(B).

SEC. 804. MODIFICATION OF FRAMEWORK FOR MODERNIZING ACQUISITION 
              PROCESSES TO ENSURE INTEGRITY OF INDUSTRIAL BASE.

     Section 2509 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
845(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 
(Public Law 116-92), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by inserting ``, such as those 
                        identified through the Department of Defense's 
                        supply chain risk management process and by the 
                        Federal Acquisition Security Council, and'' 
                        after ``supply chain risks''; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``(other 
                        than optical transmission components)'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) in clause (x), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating clause (xi) as clause 
                        (xii); and
                            (iii) by inserting after clause (x) the 
                        following new clause:
                    ``(xi) processes and procedures related to supply 
                chain risk management, including those implemented 
                pursuant to section 806 of the Ike Skelton National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public 
                Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note); and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(E) Characterization and assessment of industrial base 
        support policies, programs, and procedures, including--
                    ``(i) limitations and acquisition guidance relevant 
                to the national technology and industrial base (as 
                defined in section 2500(1) of this title);
                    ``(ii) limitations and acquisition guidance 
                relevant to section 2533a of this title;
                    ``(iii) the Industrial Base Analysis and 
                Sustainment program, including direct support and 
                common design activities;
                    ``(iv) the Small Business Innovation Research 
                program;
                    ``(v) the Department of Defense Manufacturing 
                Technology program;
                    ``(vi) programs related to the Defense Production 
                Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4511 et seq.);
                    ``(vii) the Trusted Capital Marketplace program; 
                and
                    ``(viii) programs in the military services.''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(2), by inserting ``, and supporting 
        policies, procedures, and guidance'' after ``pursuant to 
        subsection (b)''.

SEC. 805. ASSESSMENTS OF INDUSTRIAL BASE CAPABILITIES AND CAPACITY.

    (a) Assessments.--The Secretary of Defense shall define 
intelligence and other information requirements, sources, and 
organizational responsibilities for assessing foreign adversary 
technological and industrial bases and conducting comparative analyses 
of such technological and industrial bases. The requirements, sources, 
and responsibilities shall include--
            (1) examining the competitive advantages foreign 
        adversaries are pursuing, including with respect to regulation, 
        raw materials, educational capacity, labor, and capital 
        accessibility;
            (2) assessing relative cost, speed of product development, 
        age and value of the installed capital base, leadership's 
        technical competence and agility, nationally imposed inhibiting 
        conditions, the availability of human and material resources, 
        and the burdens of government oversight;
            (3) a temporal evaluation of the competitive strengths and 
        weaknesses of United States industry, including manufacturing 
        surge capacity, versus the directed priorities and capabilities 
        of foreign adversary governments; and
            (4) assessing any other issues that the Secretary of 
        Defense determines appropriate.
    (b) Methodology.--The Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Industrial Policy shall incorporate inputs pursuant to subsection (a) 
as part of a methodology to continuously assess domestic and foreign 
industries, markets, and companies of significance to military and 
industrial advantage to identify supply chain vulnerabilities.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 15, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on efforts to establish the continuous 
        assessment activity required under subsections (a) and (b).
            (2) Elements.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include a consideration of whether it would be 
        appropriate to task some of the assessment work to an 
        organization independent of the Department, and any 
        recommendations regarding which organization should perform 
        such work.

SEC. 806. ANALYSES OF CERTAIN MATERIALS AND TECHNOLOGY SECTORS FOR 
              ACTION TO ADDRESS SOURCING AND INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY.

    (a) Analyses Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Undersecretary for Acquisition and Sustainment and other 
        appropriate officials, shall review the materials, processes, 
        and technology sectors under subsection (c) to determine and 
        develop appropriate actions, consistent with the policies, 
        programs, and activities required under chapter 148 of title 
        10, United States Code, including--
                    (A) restricting procurement, with appropriate 
                waivers for cost, emergency requirements, and non-
                availability of suppliers, including restricting 
                procurement to--
                            (i) suppliers in the United States;
                            (ii) suppliers in the national technology 
                        and industrial base (as defined in section 
                        2500(1) of title 10, United States Code);
                            (iii) suppliers in other allied nations; or
                            (iv) other suppliers;
                    (B) increasing investment to expand capacity or 
                diversifying sources of supply or alternative 
                approaches to addressing military requirements, through 
                use of research and development or procurement 
                activities and acquisition authorities;
                    (C) taking a combination of actions described under 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B); or
                    (D) taking no actions, restrictions, or additional 
                investment.
            (2) Considerations.--The analyses conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall consider national security, economic, and 
        treaty implications, as well as impacts on current and 
        potential suppliers of goods and services.
    (b) Recommendations.--The analyses conducted pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall be used to inform policy, agreements, guidance and reporting 
requirements under chapter 148 of title 10, United States Code, 
including--
            (1) the annual report to Congress required under section 
        2504 of such title;
            (2) the annual report on unfunded priorities of the 
        national technology and industrial base required under section 
        2504a of such title;
            (3) Department of Defense technology and industrial base 
        policy guidance prescribed under section 2506 of such title;
            (4) activities to modernize acquisition processes to ensure 
        integrity of industrial base pursuant to section 2509 of such 
        title;
            (5) defense memoranda of understanding and related 
        agreements considered in accordance with section 2531 of such 
        title;
            (6) other requirements as appropriate.
    (c) Materials, Technologies, and Processes of Interest.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall prioritize undertaking analyses and making 
recommendations under this section for the following goods and 
services:
            (1) Goods and services covered under existing restrictions, 
        where a domestic non-availability determination has been made.
            (2) Critical technologies identified in the National 
        Defense Strategy.
            (3) Technologies and sectors identified in reports required 
        regarding the defense industrial base.
            (4) Microelectronics.
            (5) Printed circuit boards and other electronics 
        components.
            (6) Pharmaceuticals.
            (7) Medical devices.
            (8) Personal protective equipment.
            (9) Rare earth materials.
            (10) Synthetic graphite.
            (11) Coal-based rayon carbon fibers.
            (12) Aluminum.

SEC. 807. MICROELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING STRATEGY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary for 
Research and Engineering, and the Director of the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency, shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff a strategy to manufacture 
state-of-the art integrated circuits in the United States within a 
period of three to five years that includes a plan to explore and 
evaluate options for re-establishing microelectronics foundry services 
and the industrial capabilities associated with such services.
    (b) Elements.--In developing the strategy required under subsection 
(a), the Under Secretary shall consider--
            (1) multiple models of public-private partnerships to 
        execute the strategy;
            (2) processes and criteria for competitive selection of 
        commercial companies, including companies headquartered in 
        allied and partner countries, to provide design, foundry and 
        assembly, and packaging services and to build and operate the 
        industrial capabilities associated with such services;
            (3) the role that the broader Federal Government should 
        play in organizing and supporting the strategy, including any 
        required direct or indirect funding support, or legislative and 
        regulatory actions, including restricting procurements to 
        domestic sources, and providing anti-trust and export control 
        relief; and
            (4) all potential funding sources and mechanisms for 
        initial and sustaining investments.
    (c) Submission of Strategy to President.--Not later February 1, 
2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the strategy, together with 
any views and recommendations, and an estimated budget to implement the 
strategy, to the President, the National Security Council, and the 
National Economic Council.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit the strategy to and brief the congressional 
defense committees on the strategy and the Secretary's recommendations.

SEC. 808. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARDS.

    (a) Purchases.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall require for new contracts 
or other acquisition activities that contractors, or subcontractors at 
any tier, that provide covered printed circuit boards for use by the 
Department of Defense certify that, of the total value of the covered 
printed circuit boards provided by the contractor or subcontractor 
pursuant to a contract or subcontract with the Department of Defense, 
not less than the percentages set forth in subsection (b) were 
manufactured and assembled within a covered nation.
    (b) Implementation.--
            (1) Establishment of required percentages.--In establishing 
        the certification process under subsection (a), the Secretary 
        shall establish and publish increasing percentages of values of 
        the covered printed circuit boards under subsection (a) to be 
        complied with by appropriate contractors and subcontractors, 
        based on--
                    (A) assessment of covered nation capacity to supply 
                printed circuit boards, over time;
                    (B) assessment of threats to national security 
                capabilities from use of printed circuit boards from 
                non-covered nations;
                    (C) economic benefits accrued by non-covered 
                nations which would otherwise be accrued by covered 
                nations;
                    (D) achieving a goal of production of 100 percent 
                of manufacture and assembly of printed circuit boards 
                in covered nations within ten years; and
                    (E) other criteria as determined appropriate.
            (2) Minimum percentages.--The percentages established by 
        the Secretary under this subsection shall, in any case, be 
        equal to or greater than, unless specifically directed by the 
        Secretary for an individual contract or subcontract--
                    (A) 25 percent by October 1, 2023;
                    (B) 50 percent by October 1, 2025;
                    (C) 75 percent by October 1, 2029; and
                    (D) 100 percent by October 1, 2032.
            (3) Limited exceptions.--If the Secretary of Defense 
        directs that a specific contract or subcontract is required to 
        comply with a different percentage than those prescribed under 
        this subsection, the Secretary shall notify the congressional 
        defense committees not later than 30 days after such direction 
        is issued, along with a rationale for the changed percentage.
    (c) Remediation.--In the event that a contractor or subcontractor 
is unable to complete the certification required under subsection (a), 
the Secretary may accept covered printed circuit boards from the 
contractor or subcontractor for an appropriate time period, not to 
exceed 18 months over a five-year period, while requiring the 
contractor to complete a remediation plan. Such a plan shall be 
submitted to the congressional defense committees and shall require the 
contractor or subcontractor to--
            (1) audit its supply chain to identify any areas of 
        security vulnerability and compliance with section 224 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
        Law 119-92); and
            (2) meet the requirements of subsection (a) within in an 
        expedited fashion after the initial missed certification 
        deadline to address national security threats.
    (d) Waiver.--A contractor may request that the Secretary of Defense 
waive the requirement for certification, and the Secretary may grant 
such a waiver, if the Secretary has conclusively determined that--
            (1) there are no significant national security concerns 
        regarding counterfeiting, quality, or unauthorized access 
        created by any covered printed circuit boards provided to the 
        Department of Defense by the contractor in the fiscal year 
        under the certification requirement or the previous fiscal 
        year;
            (2) the contractor is otherwise in compliance with all 
        relevant cybersecurity provisions relating to members of the 
        defense industrial base, including section 244 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020; and
            (3) the waiver is required to support national security 
        needs, particularly with respect to acquisitions of commercial 
        items.
    (e) Availability and Cost Exceptions.--Subsection (a) shall not 
apply to the extent that the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of 
the military department concerned determines that covered printed 
circuit boards of satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity, in the 
required form, cannot be procured as and when needed from covered 
nations at reasonable cost, excluding comparisons with non-market 
economies, or in time to meet an operational requirement.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``covered printed circuit board'' means any 
        printed circuit board that is a--
                    (A) noncommercial item; or
                    (B) commercial or commercially available off-the-
                shelf item that transmits or stores national security 
                sensitive information for--
                            (i) telecommunications;
                            (ii) data communications;
                            (iii) data storage;
                            (iv) medical applications;
                            (v) networking;
                            (vi) fifth-generation cellular 
                        communications;
                            (vii) computing;
                            (viii) radar;
                            (ix) munitions; or
                            (x) any other system that the Secretary of 
                        Defense determines should be covered under this 
                        section; and
            (2) the term ``covered nation'' means--
                    (A) the United States;
                    (B) a member nation of the national technology and 
                industrial base under section 2500 of title 10, United 
                States Code; or
                    (C) a nation that has agreed, in compliance with 
                section 36 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
                2776) and section 2457 of title 10, United States 
                Code--
                            (i) to comply with agreements with foreign 
                        governments requiring the United States to 
                        purchase supplies from foreign sources for the 
                        purposes of offsetting sales made by the United 
                        States Government or United States firms under 
                        approved programs serving defense requirements; 
                        or
                            (ii) along with the United States 
                        Government, to remove barriers to purchases of 
                        supplies produced in the other country or 
                        services performed by sources of the other 
                        country; or
                    (D) any country, other than the People's Republic 
                of China, the Russian Federation, Iran, or the 
                Democratic People's Republic of Korea, that the 
                Secretary designates, upon a determination to be 
                published in the Federal Register, that accepting 
                covered printed circuit boards from which--
                            (i) is in the national security interests 
                        of the United States; and
                            (ii) does not pose a significant risk to 
                        national security systems.
    (g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prohibit the Department of Defense from entering into a 
contract with an entity that connects to the facilities of a third 
party, for the purposes of backhaul, roaming, or interconnection 
arrangements, on the basis of the third party's noncompliance with the 
provisions of this section.

SEC. 809. STATEMENT OF POLICY WITH RESPECT TO SUPPLY OF STRATEGIC 
              MINERALS AND METALS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PURPOSES.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that the Department of Defense shall pursue the following goals:
            (1) Ensure, by 2030, secure sources of supply of strategic 
        minerals and metals that will--
                    (A) fully meet the demands of the domestic defense 
                industrial base;
                    (B) eliminate the dependence of the United States 
                on unsecure sources of supply of strategic minerals and 
                metals; and
                    (C) ensure that the Department of Defense is not 
                reliant upon unsecure sources of supply for the 
                processing or manufacturing of any strategic mineral 
                and metal deemed essential to national security by the 
                Secretary of Defense.
            (2) Provide incentives for the defense industrial base to 
        develop robust processing and manufacturing capabilities in the 
        United States to refine strategic minerals and metals for 
        Department of Defense purposes.
            (3) Maintain secure sources of supply of strategic minerals 
        and metals required to maintain current military requirements 
        in the event that international supply chains are disrupted.
            (4) Achieve the goals described in paragraphs (1) through 
        (3) through, among other methods--
                    (A) the continued and expanded use of existing 
                programs, such as the National Defense Stockpile 
                administered by the Defense Logistics Agency; and
                    (B) the continued use of authorities under title 
                III of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 
                4531 et seq.).
    (b) Strategic Minerals and Metals.--For purposes of this section, 
strategic minerals and metals include critical minerals, as defined 
pursuant to Executive Order 13817.

SEC. 810. REPORT ON STRATEGIC AND CRITICAL MINERALS AND METALS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than June 30, 2021, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the results of a 
study, conducted for purposes of this section, concerning strategic and 
critical minerals and metals and vulnerabilities in supply chains of 
such minerals and metals.
    (b) Strategic and Critical Minerals and Metals.--For purposes of 
this section, strategic and critical minerals and metals are minerals 
and metals, including rare earth elements, that are necessary to meet 
national defense and national security requirements, including supply 
chain resiliency, and for the economic security of the United States.
    (c) Elements.--The study required for purposes of the report under 
subsection (a) shall do the following:
            (1) Identify the strategic and critical minerals and metals 
        that are currently utilized by the Department of Defense.
            (2) To the extent practicable, identify the overall annual 
        tonnage of each strategic or critical mineral or metal 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1) that was utilized by the 
        Department during the 10-year period ending on December 31, 
        2020.
            (3) Identify domestic and international sources for the 
        strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant 
        to paragraph (1).
            (4) Identify risks to access to the strategic and critical 
        minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph (1) from 
        supply chain disruptions due to geopolitical, economic, and 
        other vulnerabilities.
            (5) Evaluate the benefits of a robust domestic supply chain 
        for providing strategic and critical minerals and metals to 
        Department manufacturing supply chains in real time.
            (6) Evaluate the effects of the use of waivers by the 
        Department of Defense Strategic Materials Protection Board on 
        the domestic supply of strategic and critical minerals and 
        metals.
            (7) Recommend policies and procedures for the Department to 
        ensure a capability to secure strategic and critical minerals 
        and metals necessary for emerging technologies such as anti-
        microbial products, minerals, and metals for use in medical 
        equipment among other technologies.
            (8) Identify improvements required to the National Defense 
        Stockpile in order to ensure the Department has access to the 
        strategic and critical minerals and metals identified pursuant 
        to paragraph (1).
            (9) Evaluate the domestic processing and manufacturing 
        capacity needed to supply the Department with the strategic and 
        critical minerals and metals identified pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) in an economic and secure manner.
            (10) In consultation with the United States Geological 
        Survey, identify domestic locations already verified to contain 
        large supplies of strategic and critical minerals and metals 
        identified pursuant to paragraph (1) with existing commercial 
        manufacturing interest.
            (11) Address any other matter relating to strategic and 
        critical minerals and metals that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 811. STABILIZATION OF SHIPBUILDING INDUSTRIAL BASE WORKFORCE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Department of the Navy must explore and identify solutions, in 
consultation with the Department of Labor, to enhance shipbuilding 
workforce stability and ensure industry preparedness to construct the 
355-ship fleet.
    (b) Working Group to Stabilize Shipbuilding Industrial Base 
Workforce.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy shall form a 
        working group with the Secretary of Labor for the purpose of 
        enhancing integration of programs, resources, and expertise to 
        strengthen the shipbuilding industrial base, as well as to 
        provide recommendations to Congress, to better stabilize the 
        shipbuilding industrial base workforce and determine 
        appropriate solutions for workforce fluctuations.
            (2) Duties.--The working group shall carry out the 
        following activities related to the ongoing challenges with 
        workforce stability:
                    (A) Analyze existing Department of the Navy 
                contracts with the shipbuilding industry and other 
                relevant information to better anticipate future 
                employment trends and tailor workforce resources and 
                opportunities for workers most vulnerable to upcoming 
                workforce fluctuations.
                    (B) Identify existing Department of Labor programs 
                for unemployed, underemployed, and furloughed employees 
                that could benefit the shipbuilding industrial base 
                workforce during times of workload fluctuations and 
                workforce instability, and explore potential 
                partnerships to connect employees with appropriate 
                resources.
                    (C) Explore possible cost sharing agreements to 
                enable the Department of the Navy to contribute funding 
                to existing Department of Labor workforce programs to 
                support the shipbuilding workforce.
                    (D) Examine possible programs that will 
                specifically assist furloughed employees who may 
                sporadically rely on unemployment benefits.
                    (E) Explore opportunities for unemployed, 
                underemployed, or furloughed employees to provide 
                workforce training through temporary partnerships with 
                States, technical schools, community colleges, and 
                other local workforce development opportunities.
                    (F) Review existing training programs for the 
                shipbuilding workforce to maximize relevant and 
                necessary training opportunities that would broaden 
                employee skillset during times of unemployment, 
                underemployment, or furlough, where applicable.
                    (G) Assess the possibility of shipbuilding worker 
                support programs to weather a period of unemployment, 
                underemployment, or furlough, including compensation 
                options, alternative employment, temporary stipends, or 
                other worker support opportunities.
                    (H) Study cross-State credentialing requirements 
                and identify any restrictions that inhibit the 
                flexibility of the shipbuilding workforce to seek 
                employment opportunities across State lines, and make 
                recommendations to streamline licensing, credentialing, 
                certification, and qualification requirements within 
                the shipbuilding industry.
                    (I) Review additional or new contracting 
                authorities that could enable the Department of the 
                Navy to award short-term, flexible contracts that will 
                prioritize work for unemployed, underemployed, or 
                furloughed employees within the shipbuilding workforce.
                    (J) Identify specific workforce support programs to 
                support suppliers of all sizes within the shipbuilding 
                industrial base, and assess any additional support from 
                prime contractors that would improve the stability of 
                such suppliers.
                    (K) Assess whether greater collaboration with the 
                United States Coast Guard and its shipbuilding 
                contractors and subcontractors would improve workforce 
                stability by assessing a totality of shipbuilding 
                demands.
                    (L) Consider potential pilot programs that will 
                specifically address shipbuilding industrial base 
                workforce stability.
                    (M) Explore any additional opportunities to invest 
                in recruiting, retaining, and training a skilled 
                shipbuilding workforce.
                    (N) Consider and incorporate the findings and 
                recommendations, as appropriate, of the report on 
                shipbuilder training and the defense industrial base 
                required under section 1037 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-
                92).
            (3) Notification requirement regarding establishment and 
        structure.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of Labor, shall notify the 
        congressional defense committees regarding the membership and 
        structure of the working group.
            (4) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees, the Committee on Health, 
        Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee 
        on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives a report 
        with the findings and recommendations of the working group.

SEC. 812. MISCELLANEOUS LIMITATIONS ON THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OTHER 
              THAN UNITED STATES GOODS.

    Section 2534 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking paragraphs (2) through (5);
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(2) Components for naval vessels.--
                    ``(A) Vessel propellers with a diameter of six feet 
                or more.
                    ``(B) The following components of vessels, to the 
                extent they are unique to marine applications: 
                gyrocompasses, electronic navigation chart systems, 
                steering controls, propulsion and machinery control 
                systems, and totally enclosed lifeboats.'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (3); and
                    (D) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C), by striking ``(k)'' and inserting 
                ``(j)'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating 
                paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(3)(A)(iii)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                (a)(2)(A)'';
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``Items.'' and all that follows 
                through ``Subsection (a) does not apply'' in paragraph 
                (1) and inserting ``Items.--Subsection (a) does not 
                apply''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (2) though (5);
            (4) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by striking ``(1) This section'' and inserting 
                ``This section''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2);
            (5) in subsection (h), by striking ``subsection (a)(3)(B)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)(2)(B)'';
            (6) in subsection (i)(3), by striking ``Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics'' and inserting ``Acquisition and 
        Sustainment'';
            (7) by striking subsection (j); and
            (8) by redesignating the first subsection designated 
        subsection (k) as subsection (j).

SEC. 813. USE OF DOMESTICALLY SOURCED STAR TRACKERS IN NATIONAL 
              SECURITY SATELLITES.

    (a) In General.-- Except as provided in subsection (a), any 
acquisition executive of the Department of Defense who approves a 
contract for a national security satellite after October 1, 2021, shall 
require any star tracker system included in the design of such national 
security satellite to be domestically sourced.
    (b) Exceptions.-- The application of subsection (a) may be waived 
if the acquisition executive certifies in writing that--
            (1) there is no available domestically sourced star tracker 
        system that meets the national security satellite systems 
        mission and design requirements;
            (2) the cost of the available domestically sourced star 
        tracker system is unreasonably priced based on a market survey; 
        or
            (3) an urgent and compelling national security need exists 
        to necessitate a foreign-made star tracker.
    (c) National Security Satellite Defined.-- In this section, 
``national security satellite'' is a satellite the principle purpose of 
which is to support the national security needs of the United States 
Government.

SEC. 814. MODIFICATION TO SMALL PURCHASE THRESHOLD EXCEPTION TO 
              SOURCING REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN ARTICLES.

    Subsection (h) of section 2533a of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(h) Exception for Small Purchases.--Subsection (a) does not apply 
to purchases for amounts not greater than $150,000. A proposed purchase 
or contract for an amount greater than $150,000 may not be divided into 
several purchases or contracts for lesser amounts in order to qualify 
for this exception. On October 1 of each year evenly divisible by 5, 
the Secretary of Defense may adjust the dollar threshold in this 
subsection based on changes in the Consumer Price Index. The Secretary 
shall publish notice of any such adjustment in the Federal Register, 
and the new price threshold shall take effect on the date of 
publication.''.

             Subtitle B--Acquisition Policy and Management

SEC. 831. REPORT ON ACQUISITION RISK ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION AS PART 
              OF ADAPTIVE ACQUISITION FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) Service Acquisition Executives Input.--The Service Acquisition 
Executives shall report to the Secretary of Defense, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Defense how they are 
assessing, mitigating, and reporting on the following risks in 
acquisition programs:
            (1) Technical risks in engineering, software, manufacturing 
        and testing.
            (2) Integration and interoperability risks, including 
        complications related to systems working across multiple 
        domains while using machine learning and artificial 
        intelligence capabilities to continuously change and optimize 
        system performance.
            (3) Operations and sustainment risks, including as mediated 
        by access to technical data and intellectual property rights.
            (4) Workforce and training risks, including consideration 
        of the role of contractors as part of the total workforce.
            (5) Supply chain risks, including cybersecurity, foreign 
        control and ownership of key elements of supply chains, and the 
        consequences a fragile and weakening defense industrial base, 
        combined with barriers to industrial cooperation with allies 
        and partners pose for delivering systems and technologies in a 
        trusted and assured manner.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than March 31, 2021, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report including--
            (1) the input received from the Service Acquisition 
        Executives pursuant to subsection (a); and
            (2) the views of the Under Secretary with respect to the 
        matters described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of such 
        subsection.

SEC. 832. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF SOFTWARE 
              ACQUISITION REFORMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 15, 2021, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall brief the congressional defense 
committees on the implementation by the Department of Defense of 
required acquisition reforms with respect to acquiring software for 
weapon systems, business systems, and other activities that are part of 
the defense acquisition system, with a report, or reports, to follow as 
agreed upon by the committees and the Comptroller General.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing and report, or reports, required under 
subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the extent to which the 
Department of Defense has implemented requirements related to the 
following:
            (1) Software acquisition studies and their implementation, 
        including pursuant to section 872 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 
        Defense Innovation Board analysis of software acquisition 
        regulations), section 868 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; implementation of recommendations of the final report of 
        the Defense Science Board Task Force on the Design and 
        Acquisition of Software for Defense Systems).
            (2) Software acquisition activities pursuant to section 
        2322a of title 10, United States Code (related to consideration 
        of certain maters during the acquisition of noncommercial 
        computer software), section 875 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 
        pilot program for open source software), and section 800 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
        Law 116-92, related to continuous integration and delivery of 
        software applications and upgrades to embedded systems).
            (3) Software acquisition pilots, including the pilot 
        program pursuant to section 873 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 
        relating to the use of agile or iterative development methods 
        to tailor major software-intensive warfighting systems and 
        defense business systems) and the pilot program pursuant to 
        section 874 of such Act (relating to using agile best practices 
        for software development).
    (c) Assessment of Acquisition Policy, Guidance, and Practices.--
Each report under subsection (a) should include an assessment of the 
extent to which Department of Defense software acquisition policy, 
guidance, and practices reflect implementation of relevant 
recommendations from related studies, pilot programs, and directives 
from the congressional defense committees.
    (d) Modification of Requirements for Comptroller General Assessment 
of Acquisition Programs and Initiatives.--Section 2229b(b)(2) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``a summary of 
organizational and legislative changes and emerging assessment 
methodologies since the last assessment, and a discussion of the 
implications'' and inserting ``a discussion of selected organizational, 
policy, and legislative changes, as determined appropriate by the 
Comptroller General, and the potential implications''.
    (e) Defense Acquisition System Defined.--In this section, the term 
``defense acquisition system'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 2545(2) of title 10, United States Code.

Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

SEC. 841. AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE INNOVATIVE COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS AND 
              SERVICES USING GENERAL SOLICITATION COMPETITIVE 
              PROCEDURES.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 140 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 2380c. Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and 
              services using general solicitation competitive 
              procedures
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may acquire innovative 
commercial products and services through a competitive selection of 
proposals resulting from a general solicitation and the peer review of 
such proposals.
    ``(b) Treatment as Competitive Procedures.--Use of general 
solicitation competitive procedures under subsection (a) shall be 
considered to be use of competitive procedures for purposes of chapter 
137 of this title.
    ``(c) Limitations.--(1) The Secretary may not enter into a contract 
or agreement in excess of $100,000,000 using the authority under 
subsection (a) without a written determination from the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment or the relevant service 
acquisition executive of the efficacy of the effort to meet mission 
needs of the Department of Defense or the relevant military department.
    ``(2) Contracts or agreements entered into using the authority 
under subsection (a) shall be fixed-price, including fixed-price 
incentive fee contracts.
    ``(3) Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, products and 
services acquired using the authority under subsection (a) shall be 
treated as commercial products and services.
    ``(d) Congressional Notification Required.--(1) Not later than 45 
days after the award of a contract for an amount exceeding $100,000,000 
using the authority in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees of such award.
    ``(2) Notice of an award under paragraph (1) shall include the 
following:
            ``(A) Description of the innovative commercial product or 
        service acquired.
            ``(B) Description of the requirement, capability gap, or 
        potential technological advancement with respect to which the 
        innovative commercial product or service acquired provides a 
        solution or a potential new capability.
            ``(C) Amount of the contract awarded.
            ``(D) Identification of contractor awarded the contract.
    ``(e) Innovative Defined.--. In this section, the term 'innovative' 
means--
            ``(1) any technology, process, or method, including 
        research and development, that is new as of the date of 
        submission of a proposal; or
            ``(2) any application that is new as of the date of 
        submission of a proposal of a technology, process, or method 
        existing as of such date.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 140 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2380b 
        the following new item:

``2380c. Authority to acquire innovative commercial products and 
                            services using general solicitation 
                            competitive procedures.''.
    (b) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 879 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 10 
U.S.C. 2302 note) is hereby repealed.

SEC. 842. TRUTH IN NEGOTIATIONS ACT THRESHOLD FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              CONTRACTS.

    Section 2306a(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``contract if'' and 
        all that follows through clause (iii) and inserting ``contract 
        if the price adjustment is expected to exceed $2,000,000.'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``section and--'' and 
        all that follows through clause (iii) and inserting ``section 
        and the price of the subcontract is expected to exceed 
        $2,000,000.''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``subcontract if--'' 
        and all that follows through clause (ii) and inserting 
        ``subcontract if the price adjustment is expected to exceed 
        $2,000,000.''.

SEC. 843. REVISION OF PROOF REQUIRED WHEN USING AN EVALUATION FACTOR 
              FOR DEFENSE CONTRACTORS EMPLOYING OR SUBCONTRACTING WITH 
              MEMBERS OF THE SELECTED RESERVE OF THE RESERVE COMPONENTS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 819 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3385; 10 U.S.C. 2305 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

SEC. 844. CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT OF INITIAL OR 
              ADDITIONAL PROTOTYPE UNITS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2302e of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``advanced development'' 
        and inserting ``development and demonstration''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``provision of 
        advanced component development, prototype,'' and inserting 
        ``development and demonstration''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 2302e and inserting the following new item:

``2302e. Contract authority for development and demonstration of 
                            initial or additional prototype units.''.

SEC. 845. DEFINITION OF BUSINESS SYSTEM DEFICIENCIES FOR CONTRACTOR 
              BUSINESS SYSTEMS.

    Section 893 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``significant deficiencies'' both places it 
        appears and inserting ``material weaknesses'';
            (2) by striking ``significant deficiency'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``material weakness''; and
            (3) by amending paragraph (4) of subsection (g) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(4) The term `material weakness' means a deficiency, or 
        combination of deficiencies, in internal control over risks 
        related to Government contract compliance or other shortcomings 
        in the system, such that there is a reasonable possibility that 
        a material noncompliance will not be prevented, or detected and 
        corrected, on a timely basis. A reasonable possibility exists 
        when the likelihood of an event occurring is either reasonably 
        possible, meaning the chance of the future event occurring is 
        more than remote but less than likely, or is probable.''.

SEC. 846. REPEAL OF PILOT PROGRAM ON PAYMENT OF COSTS FOR DENIED 
              GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE BID PROTESTS.

    Section 827 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91) is repealed.

 Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

SEC. 861. IMPLEMENTATION OF MODULAR OPEN SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Requirements for Interface Delivery.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Joint All 
        Domain Command and Control Cross Functional Team under the 
        supervision of the Department of Defense Chief Information 
        Officer and the Joint Staff Director for Command, Control, 
        Communications, and Computers/Cyber, shall prescribe 
        regulations and issue guidance to the military services, 
        defense agencies and field activities, and combatant commands, 
        as appropriate, in order to--
                    (A) facilitate the Department of Defense's access 
                to and utilization of system, major subsystem, and 
                major component software-defined interfaces;
                    (B) fully meet the intent of chapter 144B of title 
                10, United States Code; and
                    (C) advance the Department's efforts to generate 
                diverse and recomposable kill chains.
            (2) Elements.--The regulations and guidance required in 
        subsection (a)(1) shall include, at a minimum--
                    (A) requirements that each relevant program office 
                characterizes the desired modularity of the system for 
                which it is responsible, either, in the case of major 
                defense acquisition programs, in the acquisition 
                strategy required under section 2431a of title 10, 
                United States Code, or, in the case of other programs, 
                via other documentation, including--
                            (i) specification of which system, major 
                        subsystems, and major components should be able 
                        to execute without requiring coincident 
                        execution of other systems, major subsystems, 
                        and major components;
                            (ii) a default configuration specifying 
                        which systems, major subsystems, and major 
                        components should communicate with other 
                        systems, major subsystems, and major 
                        components; and
                            (iii) specification of what information 
                        should be communicated, the method of the 
                        communication, and the desired function of the 
                        communication;
                    (B) requirements that relevant Department of 
                Defense contracts include mandates for the delivery of 
                system, major subsystem, and major component software-
                defined interfaces for systems, major subsystems, and 
                major components deemed relevant in the acquisition 
                strategy or documentation referred to in subsection 
                (a)(2)(a), including--
                            (i) software-defined interface syntax and 
                        properties, specifically governing how values 
                        are validly passed and received between major 
                        subsystems and components, in machine-readable 
                        format;
                            (ii) a machine-readable definition of the 
                        relationship between the delivered interface 
                        and existing common standards or interfaces 
                        available in the interface repository of 
                        subsection (c), if appropriate and available, 
                        using interface field transform technology 
                        developed under the Defense Advanced Research 
                        Projects Agency System of Systems Technology 
                        Integration Tool Chain for Heterogeneous 
                        Electronic Systems (STITCHES) program or 
                        technology that is functionally similar; and
                            (iii) documentation with functional 
                        descriptions of software-defined interfaces, 
                        conveying semantic meaning of interface 
                        elements, such as the function of a given 
                        interface field;
                    (C) requirements that relevant program offices, 
                including those responsible for maintaining and 
                upgrading legacy systems, that have awarded contracts 
                that do not include the requirements specified in 
                subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) nevertheless acquire 
                the items specified in clauses (i) through (iii) of 
                such subparagraph, either through contractual updates, 
                separate negotiations or contracts, or program 
                management mechanisms; and
                    (D) requirements that program offices deliver these 
                interfaces and the associated documentation to the 
                controlled repository established under subsection (c).
            (3) Applicability of regulations and guidance.--
                    (A) Applicability.--The regulations and guidance 
                required under subsection (a)(1) shall apply, at a 
                minimum, to program offices responsible for the 
                prototyping, acquisition, or sustainment of new or 
                existing cyber-physical weapon systems with software-
                defined interfaces, or with major subsystems or 
                components with software-defined interfaces, developed 
                or to be developed, wholly or in part with Federal 
                funds, including those applicable program offices using 
                other transaction authorities (OTA).
                    (B) Extension of scope.--One year after the 
                promulgation of the regulations and guidance required 
                under subsection (a)(1) for cyber-physical systems, the 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment shall extend the regulations and guidance 
                to apply to purely software systems, including business 
                systems and cybersecurity systems. The Secretary may 
                make the regulations and guidance applicable, as 
                practicable, to program offices responsible for the 
                acquisition of systems and capabilities under part 12 
                of the Federal Acquisition Regulation and commercially 
                available off the-the-shelf items.
                    (C) Inclusion of subsystems and components.--The 
                major subsystems and components covered under paragraph 
                (2)(A) shall include all subsystems and components 
                covered by contract line items.
    (b) Rights in Interface Software.--
            (1) Regulations.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall prescribe regulations to 
        define the legitimate interest of the United States and of a 
        contractor or subcontractor in interface software. The 
        regulations shall be included in regulations of the Department 
        of Defense prescribed as part of the Defense Supplement to the 
        Federal Acquisition Regulation.
            (2) Limitation on regulations.--The regulations prescribed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) may not--
                    (A) impair any right of the United States or of any 
                contractor or subcontractor with respect to patents or 
                copyrights or any other right in software otherwise 
                established by law; or
                    (B) impair the right of a contractor or 
                subcontractor to receive from a third party a fee or 
                royalty for the use of software pertaining to an item 
                or process developed exclusively at private expense by 
                the contractor or subcontractor, except as otherwise 
                specifically provided by law.
            (3) Elements.--Such regulations shall include the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) In the case of a software interface that is 
                developed by a contractor or subcontractor exclusively 
                with Federal funds (other than an item developed under 
                a contract or subcontract to which regulations under 
                section 9(j)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
                638(j)(2)) apply), the United States shall have the 
                unlimited and non-expiring right to use the software or 
                release or disclose the software to persons outside the 
                government or permit the use of the software by such 
                persons.
                    (B) In the case of a software interface that is 
                developed in part with Federal funds and in part at 
                private expense and except in any case in which the 
                Secretary of Defense determines that negotiation of 
                different rights in such software would be in the best 
                interest of the United States, the Government--
                            (i) shall have Government-purpose rights to 
                        the software interface, and, in addition, may 
                        release or disclose the software interface, or 
                        authorize others to do so, if--
                                    (I) prior to release or disclosure, 
                                the intended recipient is subject to an 
                                exclusive for-Government-use and non-
                                disclosure agreement;
                                    (II) the intended recipient is a 
                                Government contractor receiving access 
                                to the interface for the performance of 
                                a Government contract; and
                                    (III) the intended use is for the 
                                purpose of system, major subsystem, and 
                                major component segregation, 
                                interoperability, integration, or 
                                reintegration; and
                            (ii) may not use, or authorize other 
                        persons to use, interface software for 
                        commercial purposes.
                    (C) In the case of a software interface that is 
                developed exclusively at private expense, the 
                Government shall negotiate with the contractor or the 
                subcontractor to best achieve, if practical, 
                Government-purpose rights to the software interface and 
                rights to release or disclose the software interface, 
                or authorize others to do so, if--
                            (i) prior to release or disclosure, the 
                        intended recipient is subject to an exclusive 
                        for-Government use and non-disclosure 
                        agreement;
                            (ii) the intended recipient is a Government 
                        contractor receiving access to the interface 
                        for the performance of a Government contract; 
                        and
                            (iii) the intended use is for the purpose 
                        of system, major subsystem, and major component 
                        segregation, interoperability, integration and 
                        reintegration.
    (c) Interface Repository.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall establish and maintain, at 
        the appropriate classification level, an interface repository 
        for interfaces, syntax and properties, documentation, and 
        communication implementations delivered pursuant to the 
        requirements established under subsection (a)(2)(B) and shall 
        provide interfaces, access to interfaces, and relevant 
        documentation to the military services, defense agencies and 
        field activities, combatant commands, and contractors, as 
        appropriate, to facilitate system, major subsystem, and major 
        component segregation and reintegration.
            (2) Distribution of interfaces.--Consistent with section 
        2320 of title 10, United States Code, and in accordance with 
        subsection (b), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
        and Sustainment may distribute interfaces, access to 
        interfaces, and relevant documentation to Government entities 
        and contractors. Any such protected transfer or disclosure by 
        the Government to a recipient is limited to only those data 
        necessary for segregation, interoperability, integration, or 
        reintegration.
    (d) System of Systems Integration Technology and Experimentation.--
            (1) Demonstrations and assessment.--No later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Joint Staff 
        Director for Command, Control, Communications, and Computers/
        Cyber and Department of Defense Chief Information Officer, 
        through the Joint All Domain Command and Control Cross 
        Functional Team, shall conduct demonstrations and complete an 
        assessment of the technologies developed under the Defense 
        Advanced Research Projects Agency's System of Systems 
        Integration Technology and Experimentation program, including 
        the STITCHES technology, and their applicability to the Joint 
        All-Domain Command and Control architecture. The demonstrations 
        and assessment shall include--
                    (A) at least three demonstrations of the use of the 
                STITCHES technology to create, under constrained 
                schedules and budgets, novel kill chains involving 
                previously incompatible weapon systems, sensors, and 
                command, control, and communication systems from 
                multiple military services in cooperation with United 
                States Indo-Pacific Command or United States European 
                Command;
                    (B) an evaluation as to whether the communications 
                enabled via the STITCHES technology are sufficient for 
                military missions and whether the technology results in 
                any substantial performance loss in communication 
                between systems, major subsystems, and major 
                components;
                    (C) an evaluation as to whether the STITCHES 
                technology obviates the need to develop, impose, and 
                maintain strict adherence to common communication and 
                interface standards for Department of Defense systems;
                    (D) the appropriate roles and responsibilities of 
                the Department of Defense Chief Information Officer, 
                the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment, the geographic combatant commands, the 
                military services, the Defense Advanced Research 
                Projects Agency, and the defense industrial base in 
                using and maintaining the STITCHES technology to 
                generate diverse and recomposable kill chains as part 
                of the Joint All-Domain Command and Control 
                architecture; and
                    (E) coordination with the program manager for the 
                Time Sensitive Targeting Defeat program under the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and 
                the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
            (2) Chief information officer assessment.--The Department 
        of Defense Chief Information Officer shall assess the 
        technologies developed under the Defense Advanced Research 
        Projects Agency's System of Systems Integration Technology and 
        Experimentation program, including the STITCHES interface field 
        transform technology, and their applicability to the 
        Department's business systems and cybersecurity tools. This 
        assessment shall include--
                    (A) at least two demonstrations of the use of the 
                STITCHES technology in enabling communication between 
                business systems;
                    (B) in coordination with the Cross Functional Team 
                under the Principal Cyber Adviser and the Integrated 
                Adaptive Cyber Defense program office of the National 
                Security Agency, at least two demonstrations of the use 
                of the STITCHES technology in enabling communication 
                between and orchestration of previously incompatible 
                cybersecurity tools; and
                    (C) an evaluation as to how the STITCHES technology 
                could be used in concert with or instead of existing 
                cybersecurity standards, frameworks, and technologies 
                designed to enable communication across cybersecurity 
                tools.
            (3) Sustainment of stitches engineering resources and 
        capabilities developed by darpa.--To conduct the demonstrations 
        and assessments required under this subsection and to execute 
        the Joint All Domain Command and Control program, the Joint All 
        Domain Command and Control program office shall sustain the 
        STITCHES engineering resources and capabilities developed by 
        the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
    (e) Transfer of Responsibility for STITCHES.--One year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may transfer 
responsibility for maintaining the STITCHES engineering capabilities to 
a different organization.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Desired modularity.--The term ``desired modularity'' 
        means the desired degree to which systems, major constitutive 
        subsystems and components within a system, and major subsystems 
        and components across subsystems can function as modules that 
        can communicate across component boundaries and through 
        interfaces and can be separated and recombined to achieve 
        various effects, missions, or capabilities.
            (2) Machine-readable format.--The term ``machine-readable 
        format'' means a format that can be easily processed by a 
        computer without human intervention.

SEC. 862. SUSTAINMENT REVIEWS.

    (a) Annual Sustainment Reviews.--Section 2441(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``annually thereafter'' 
before ``throughout the life cycle of the weapon system''.
    (b) Submission to Congress of Sustainment Reviews.--Section 2441 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Submission to Congress of Sustainment Reviews.--(1) The 
Secretary of each military department shall submit no fewer than ten 
sustainment reviews required by this section to the congressional 
defense committees annually. The Secretary of each military department 
shall select the ten reviews from among the systems with the highest 
independent cost estimates for the remainder of the life cycle of the 
program.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall submit the reviews required under 
paragraph (1) to the congressional defense committees annually not 
later than 30 days after submission of the President's annual budget 
request to Congress under section 1105 of title 31. The sustainment 
reviews shall be posted on a publicly available website maintained by 
the Director of the Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation office and, 
for those systems with operating and support cost growth, shall include 
comments from the military departments regarding actions being taken to 
reduce the operating and support costs. The reviews may include 
classified appendices, as appropriate.''.
    (c) Comptroller General Study.--Not later than 180 days after the 
Secretaries of the military departments post the initial sustainment 
reviews required under paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of section 2441 
of title 10, United States Code (as added by subsection (b) of this 
section) on a publicly available website as required under paragraph 
(2) of such subsection (d), the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall assess steps the military departments are taking to 
quantify and address operating and support cost growth. The assessment 
shall include--
            (1) an evaluation of--
                    (A) the causes of operating and support cost growth 
                for selected systems covered by the sustainment 
                reviews, as well as any other systems the Comptroller 
                General determines appropriate;
                    (B) the extent to which the Department has 
                mitigated operating and support cost growth of these 
                systems; and
                    (C) any other issues related to potential operating 
                and support cost growth the Comptroller General 
                determines appropriate; and
            (2) any recommendations of the Comptroller General, 
        including steps the military departments could take to reduce 
        operating and support cost growth for fielded weapon systems, 
        as well as lessons learned to be incorporated in future weapon 
        system acquisitions.

SEC. 863. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE DIRECT SELECTIONS.

    The Secretary of each military department shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees in the future-years defense program 
submitted under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, for fiscal 
year 2022 a list of at least one acquisition program for which it would 
be appropriate to have a large number of users provide direct 
assessment of the outcome of a competitive contract award.

SEC. 864. DISCLOSURES FOR CERTAIN SHIPBUILDING MAJOR DEFENSE 
              ACQUISITION PROGRAM OFFERS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2339c. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense 
              acquisition program offers
    ``(a) General.--Any covered offeror seeking to be awarded a 
shipbuilding construction contract as part of a major defense 
acquisition program with funds from the Shipbuilding and Conversion, 
Navy account shall disclose with its offer and any subsequent offer 
revisions, including the final proposal revision offer, whether any 
part of the offeror's planned contract performance will or is expected 
to include foreign government subsidized performance, financing, 
financial guarantees, or tax concessions.
    ``(b) Disclosure.--An offeror shall make a disclosure required 
under subsection (a) in a format prescribed by the Secretary of the 
Navy and shall include therein a specific description of the extent to 
which the offeror's planned contract performance will include, with or 
without contingencies, any foreign government subsidized performance, 
financing, financial guarantees, or tax concessions.
    ``(c) Congressional Notification.--Not later than 5 days after 
awarding a contract described under subsection (a) to an offeror that 
made a disclosure under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Navy shall 
notify the congressional defense committees and summarize such 
disclosure.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered offeror.--The term `covered offeror' means 
        any offeror that currently requires or may reasonably be 
        expected to require during the period of contract performance a 
        method to mitigate or negate foreign ownership under subsection 
        (f)(6) of part 2004.34 of title 32, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            ``(2) Foreign government subsidized performance.--The term 
        `foreign government subsidized performance' means any financial 
        support, materiel, services, or guarantees of support, 
        services, supply, performance, or intellectual property 
        concessions, that may be provided to or for the offeror or the 
        offeror's Department of Defense customer by a foreign 
        government or entity effectively owned or controlled by a 
        foreign government, which may have the effect of supplementing, 
        supplying, servicing, or reducing the cost or price of an end 
        item, or supporting, financing in whole or in part, or 
        guaranteeing contract performance by the offeror.
            ``(3) Major defense acquisition program.--The term `major 
        defense acquisition program' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 2430 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 2339b the following new item:

``2339c. Disclosures for certain shipbuilding major defense acquisition 
                            program offers.''.

                   Subtitle E--Small Business Matters

SEC. 871. PROMPT PAYMENT OF CONTRACTORS.

    Section 2307(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``if a specific 
        payment date is not established by contract''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``if--'' and all that 
        follows through ``the prime contractor agrees'' in clause (ii) 
        and inserting ``if the prime contractor agrees or proposes''.

SEC. 872. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR STREAMLINED AWARDS FOR 
              INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.

    Section 873(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2306a) is amended by striking 
``2020'' and inserting ``2023''.

SEC. 873. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 9(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (G), by adding ``and'' at the 
                end; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) with respect to a Federal agency to which 
                subsection (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies, whether the 
                Federal agency has satisfied the requirement under each 
                applicable subsection for the year covered by the 
                report;'';
            (2) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (10), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) with respect to a Federal agency to which subsection 
        (f)(1) or (n)(1) applies and that the Administration determines 
        has not satisfied the requirement under either applicable 
        subsection, require the head of that Federal agency to submit 
        to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
        Representatives a report regarding why the Federal agency has 
        not satisfied the requirement.''.

     Subtitle F--Provisions Related to Software-Driven Capabilities

SEC. 881. INCLUSION OF SOFTWARE IN GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE OF 
              ACQUISITION FUNCTIONS.

    (a) Inclusion of Software.--Section 1706(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(14) Program lead software.''.
    (b) Technical Amendments.--Section 1706 of such title is further 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``for each major defense 
        acquisition program and each major automated information system 
        program'' and inserting ``for each acquisition program''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (c).

SEC. 882. BALANCING SECURITY AND INNOVATION IN SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT AND 
              ACQUISITION.

    (a) Requirements for Solicitations of Commercial and Developmental 
Solutions.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer of the 
Department of Defense, shall develop requirements for inclusion in 
solicitations for both commercial and developmental solutions, and for 
the evaluation of bids, of appropriate software security criteria, 
including--
            (1) delineation of what processes were or will be used for 
        a secure software development lifecycle, including management 
        of supply chain and third-party software sources and component 
        risks; and
            (2) an associated vulnerability management plan or tools.
    (b) Security Review of Code.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment, in coordination with the Chief Information 
Officer of the Department of Defense, shall develop processes for 
security review of code for the purpose of publication and other 
procedures necessary to fully implement the pilot program required 
under section 875 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 2223 note).
    (c) Coordination With Software Acquisition Pathway Efforts.--The 
requirements and procedures required under subsections (a) and (b) 
shall be developed in conjunction with the Department of Defense's 
efforts to incorporate input and finalize the procedures described in 
the Interim Procedures for Operation of the Software Acquisition 
Pathway.

SEC. 883. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
              ACQUISITION AND LICENSING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report evaluating the implementation of the Department of 
Defense's Instruction on Intellectual Property Acquisition and 
Licensing (DODI 5010.44), established under section 2322 of title 10, 
United States Code.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
assess the following:
            (1) The extent to which the Department of Defense is 
        fulfilling the core principles established in DODI 5010.44.
            (2) The extent to which the Defense Acquisition University, 
        Department of Defense components, and program offices are 
        carrying out their responsibilities under DODI 5010.44.
            (3) The progress of the Department in establishing an IP 
        Cadre, including the extent to which such experts are executing 
        their roles and responsibilities.
            (4) The performance of the Department in assessing and 
        demonstrating the implementation of DODI 5010.44, including the 
        effectiveness of the IP Cadre;
            (5) The effect implementation of DODI 5010.44 has had on 
        particular acquisitions;
            (6) Any other matters the Comptroller General determines 
        appropriate.

SEC. 884. PILOT PROGRAM EXPLORING THE USE OF CONSUMPTION-BASED 
              SOLUTIONS TO ADDRESS SOFTWARE-INTENSIVE WARFIGHTING 
              CAPABILITY.

    (a) Finding.--In its final report, the Section 809 Panel 
recommended the adoption of consumption-based approaches at the 
Department of Defense, stating, ``More things will be sold as a service 
in the future. XaaS could really mean everything in the context of the 
Internet of things (IoT). Consumption-based solutions are appearing in 
many industry sectors, from last mile transportation (e.g., bike shares 
and electric scooters) to agriculture (e.g., tractor-as-a-service for 
farmers in developing countries). Most smart phone users are familiar 
with software updates that provide bug fixes or new features. A more 
extreme example of technology innovation enabled by the IoT is the 
ability to deliver physical performance improvements to vehicles 
through over-the-air software updates. . . In the not-so-distant 
future, cloud computing and the IoT will enable consumption-based 
solution offerings and delivery models that are hard to imagine 
today.''
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress--
            (1) that the Department of Defense should take advantage of 
        ``as-a-service'' or ``aaS'' approaches in commercial capability 
        development, particularly where the capability is software-
        defined, and cloud-enabled;
            (2) to support the Department of Defense's commitment to 
        new approaches to development and acquisition of software;
            (3) that the Department should explore a variety of 
        approaches, to include the use of consumption-based solutions 
        for software-intensive warfighting capability; and
            (4) that, in conducting activities under the pilot program 
        established under this program, the Department should use the 
        Software pathway under the new Adaptive Acquisition Framework.
    (c) In General.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary of Defense is authorized to establish a pilot program to 
explore the use of consumption-based solutions to address software-
intensive warfighting capability.
    (d) Selection of Initiatives.--The Secretary of each military 
department and the commander of each combatant command with acquisition 
authority shall propose for selection by the Secretary of Defense for 
the pilot program at least one and not more than three initiatives that 
are well-suited to explore consumption-based solutions to address 
software-intensive warfighting capability. The initiatives may be new 
or existing programs of record and shall focus on software-defined or 
machine-enabled warfighting applications, and may include applications 
that--
            (1) rapidly analyze sensor data;
            (2) secure warfighter networks, including multi-level 
        security;
            (3) swiftly transport information across various networks 
        and network modalities; or
            (4) otherwise enable joint all-domain operational concepts, 
        including in a contested environment.
    (e) Contract Requirements.--Contracts for consumption-based 
solutions entered into pursuant to the pilot program shall provide 
for--
            (1) the solution to be measurable on a frequent interval 
        customary for the type of solution;
            (2) the contractor to notify the government when 
        consumption reaches 75 percent and 90 percent of the contract 
        funded amount; and
            (3) discretion for the contracting officer to add new 
        features or capabilities without additional competition for the 
        contract, provided that the amount of the new features or 
        capabilities does not exceed 25 percent of the total contract 
        value.
    (f) Duration of Initiatives.--Each initiative carried out under the 
pilot program shall be carried out during the three-year period 
following selection of the initiative.
    (g) Monitoring and Evaluation of Pilot Program.--The Director of 
the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall establish 
continuous monitoring to evaluate the pilot program established under 
subsection (c), including collecting data on cost, schedule, and 
performance from the program office, the user community, and the 
contractors.
    (h) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than January 31, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on initiatives selected for the pilot 
        program, roles and responsibilities for implementing the pilot 
        program, and the monitoring and evaluation approach for the 
        pilot.
            (2) Progress report.--Not later than April 15, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the progress of the initiatives.
            (3) Final report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        cost, schedule, and performance outcomes of the initiatives. 
        The report shall also include lessons learned about the use of 
        consumption-based solutions for software-intensive capabilities 
        and any recommendations for statutory or regulatory changes to 
        facilitate their use.
    (i) Consumption-based Solution Defined.--In this section, the term 
``consumption-based solution'' means any combination of software, 
hardware or equipment, and labor or services that provides a seamless 
capability that is metered and billed based on actual usage and 
predetermined pricing per resource unit, and includes the ability to 
rapidly scale capacity up or down.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 891. SAFEGUARDING DEFENSE-SENSITIVE UNITED STATES INTELLECTUAL 
              PROPERTY, TECHNOLOGY, AND OTHER DATA AND INFORMATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish, enforce, 
and track actions being taken to protect defense-sensitive United 
States intellectual property, technology, and other data and 
information, including hardware and software, from acquisition by the 
Government of the People's Republic of China.
    (b) List of Critical Technology.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish and maintain a list of critical national security technology.
    (c) Restrictions on Employment of Defense Industrial Base Employees 
With Chinese Companies.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for 
mechanisms to restrict employees or former employees of the defense 
industrial base that contribute to the technology referenced in 
subsection (b) from working directly for companies wholly owned by, or 
under the direction of, the Government of the Peoples Republic of 
China.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Department of defense report.--Not later than May 1, 
        2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on progress in 
        implementing the measures described in subsections (a) through 
        (c).
            (2) Comptroller general report.-- Not later than December 
        1, 2021, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        reviewing the report submitted under paragraph (1) and 
        providing an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures 
        implemented under this section.
            (3) Form.--The reports required under this subsection shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form but may contain classified 
        annexes.

SEC. 892. DOMESTIC COMPARATIVE TESTING ACTIVITIES.

    Section 2350a(g)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting ``and conventional defense equipment, munitions, and 
technologies manufactured and developed domestically'' after ``in 
subsection (a)(2)''.

SEC. 893. REPEAL OF APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 2870 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 865 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is repealed.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to 
        section 2870.
            (2) Obsolete provision.--Section 865 of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-
        92) is repealed.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

SEC. 901. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS AND LOW 
              INTENSITY CONFLICT AND RELATED MATTERS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Clarification of chain of administrative command.--
        Section 138(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) 
                of subparagraph (B) as subclauses (I), (II), and (III), 
                respectively;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                clauses (i) and (ii), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(2)'';
                    (D) in clause (i) of subparagraph (A), as 
                redesignated by this paragraph, by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``through the 
                administrative chain of command specified in section 
                167(f) of this title;'' and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
    ``(B) In the discharge of the responsibilities specified in 
subparagraph (A)(i), the Assistant Secretary is immediately subordinate 
to the Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense. No 
officer below the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary may intervene to 
exercise authority, direction, or control over the Assistant Secretary 
in the discharge of such responsibilities.''.
            (2) Technical amendment.--Subparagraph (A) of such section, 
        as redesignated by paragraph (2), is further amended in the 
        matter preceding clause (i), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``section 167(j)'' and inserting ``section 167(k)''.
    (b) Fulfillment of Special Operations Responsibilities.--
            (1) In general.--Section 139b of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 139b. Secretariat for Special Operations; Special Operations 
              Policy and Oversight Council
    ``(a) Secretariat for Special Operations.--
            ``(1) In general.--In order to fulfill the responsibilities 
        of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations 
        and Low Intensity Conflict specified in section 138(b)(2)(A)(i) 
        of this title, there shall be within the Office of the 
        Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low 
        Intensity Conflict an office to be known as the `Secretariat 
        for Special Operations'.
            ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Secretariat is to assist 
        the Assistant Secretary in exercising authority, direction, and 
        control with respect to the special operations-peculiar 
        administration and support of the special operations command, 
        including the readiness and organization of special operations 
        forces, resources and equipment, and civilian personnel as 
        specified in such section.
            ``(3) Director.--The Director of the Secretariat for 
        Special Operations shall be appointed by the Secretary of 
        Defense from among individuals qualified to serve as the 
        Director. The Director shall have a grade of Deputy Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense.
            ``(4) Administrative chain of command.--For purposes of the 
        support of the Secretariat for the Assistant Secretary in the 
        fulfillment of the responsibilities referred to in paragraph 
        (1), the administrative chain of command is as specified in 
        section 167(f) of this title. No officer below the Secretary of 
        Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense (other than the 
        Assistant Secretary) may intervene to exercise authority, 
        direction, or control over the Secretariat in its support of 
        the Assistant Secretary in the discharge of such 
        responsibilities.
    ``(b) Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council.--
            ``(1) In general.--In order to fulfill the responsibilities 
        specified in section 138(b)(2)(A)(i) of this title, there shall 
        also be within the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
        for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict a team known 
        as the `Special Operation Policy and Oversight Council'. The 
        team is lead by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
        Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, or the Assistant 
        Secretary's designee..
            ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Council is to integrate 
        the functional activities of the headquarters of the Department 
        of Defense in order to most efficiently and effectively provide 
        for special operations forces and capabilities. In fulfilling 
        this purpose, the Council shall develop and continuously 
        improve policy, joint processes, and procedures that facilitate 
        the development, acquisition, integration, employment, and 
        sustainment of special operations forces and capabilities.
            ``(3) Membership.--The Council shall include the following:
                    ``(A) The Assistant Secretary, who shall act as 
                leader of the Council.
                    ``(B) Appropriate senior representatives of each of 
                the following:
                            ``(i) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Research and Engineering.
                            ``(ii) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Management and Support.
                            ``(iii) The Under Secretary of Defense 
                        (Comptroller).
                            ``(iv) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Personnel and Readiness.
                            ``(v) The Under Secretary of Defense for 
                        Intelligence.
                            ``(vi) The General Counsel of the 
                        Department of Defense.
                            ``(vii) The other Assistant Secretaries of 
                        Defense under the Under Secretary of Defense 
                        for Policy.
                            ``(viii) The military departments.
                            ``(ix) The Joint Staff.
                            ``(x) The United States Special Operations 
                        Command.
                            ``(xi) Such other officials or Agencies, 
                        elements, or components of the Department of 
                        Defense as the Secretary of Defense considers 
                        appropriate.
            ``(4) Operation.--The Council shall operate 
        continuously.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the 
        item relating to section 139b and inserting the following new 
        item:

``139b. Secretariat for Special Operations; Special Operations Policy 
                            and Oversight Council.''.
    (c) DoD Directive on Responsibilities of ASD SOLIC.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        publish a Department of Defense directive establishing policy 
        and procedures related to the exercise of authority, direction, 
        and control of all special-operations peculiar administrative 
        matters relating to the organization, training, and equipping 
        of special operations forces by the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict as 
        specified by section 138(b)(2)(A)(i) of title 10, United States 
        Code, as amended by subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Matters for including.--The directive required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A specification of responsibilities for 
                coordination on matters affecting the organization, 
                training, and equipping of special operations forces.
                    (B) An identification and specification of updates 
                to applicable documents and instructions of the 
                Department of Defense.
                    (C) Mechanisms to ensure the inclusion of the 
                Assistant Secretary in all Departmental governance 
                forums affecting the organization, training, and 
                equipping of special operations forces.
                    (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Applicability.-- The directive required by paragraph 
        (1) shall apply throughout the Department of Defense to all 
        components of the Department of Defense.
            (4) Limitation on availability of certain funding pending 
        publication.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
        this Act for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance, 
        Defense-wide, and available for the Office of the Secretary of 
        Defense, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended 
        until the date that is 15 days after the date on which the 
        Secretary publishes the directive required by paragraph (1).

SEC. 902. REDESIGNATION AND CODIFICATION IN LAW OF OFFICE OF ECONOMIC 
              ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Redesignation.--
            (1) In general.--The Office of Economic Adjustment in the 
        Office of the Secretary of Defense is hereby redesignated as 
        the ``Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation''.
            (2) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        office referred to in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to the ``Office of Local Defense Community 
        Cooperation''.
    (b) Codification in Law.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 146. Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation
    ``(a) In General.--There is an Office of Local Defense Community 
Cooperation in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment.
    ``(b) Director.--The Office shall be headed by the Director of the 
Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation, who shall be assigned to 
such position by the Under Secretary from among civilian employees of 
the Department of Defense who are qualified to serve in the position.
    ``(c) Functions.--Subject to the authority, direction, and control 
of the Under Secretary, the Office shall--
            ``(1) in cooperation with the other components, of the 
        Department of Defense be the primary office within the 
        Department for the provision of assistance to States, counties, 
        municipalities, regions, and communities intended to--
                    ``(A) foster greater cooperation with military 
                installations in order to enhance the military mission, 
                achieve facility and infrastructure savings and reduced 
                operating costs, address encroachment and compatible 
                land use issues, support military families, and 
                increase military, civilian, and industrial readiness 
                and resiliency; and
                    ``(B) address impacts caused by changes in defense 
                programs, including basing decisions, defense industry 
                expansions or contractions, increases or reductions in 
                Federal civilian or contractor personnel, and 
                expansions, realignments, and closures of military 
                installations;
            ``(2) provide support to the Economic Adjustment Committee 
        within the Executive Office of the President, or any successor 
        interagency coordination body; and
            ``(3) perform such other functions as the Secretary of 
        Defense may prescribe.
    ``(d) Annual Report to Congress.--Not later than June 1 each year, 
the Director of the Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
activities of the Office during the preceding year, including the 
assistance provided pursuant to subsection (c)(1) during such year.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``146. Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation.''.

SEC. 903. MODERNIZATION OF PROCESS USED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO 
              IDENTIFY, TASK, AND MANAGE CONGRESSIONAL REPORTING 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Analysis Required.--The Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Legislative Affairs shall conduct an analysis of the process used by 
the Department of Defense to identify reports to Congress required by 
annual national defense authorization Acts, assign responsibility for 
preparation of such reports, and manage the completion and delivery of 
such reports to Congress for the purpose of identifying mechanisms to 
optimize and otherwise modernize the process.
    (b) Consultation.--The Assistant Secretary shall conduct the 
analysis required by subsection (a) with the assistance of and in 
consultation with the Chief Data Officer of the Department of Defense 
and the Director of the Defense Digital Service.
    (c) Elements.--The analysis required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A business process reengineering of the process 
        described in subsection (a).
            (2) An assessment of applicable commercially available 
        analytics tools, technologies, and services in connection with 
        such business process reengineering.
            (3) Such other actions as the Assistant Secretary considers 
        appropriate for purposes of the analysis.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than November 15, 2020, the Assistant 
Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
results of the analysis required by subsection (a). The briefing shall 
address the following:
            (1) The results of the analysis and of the business process 
        reengineering described in subsection (c)(1).
            (2) A description of the actions being taken, and to be 
        taken, to optimize and otherwise improve the process described 
        in subsection (a).
            (3) Such recommendations for administrative and legislative 
        action as the Assistant Secretary considers appropriate to 
        facilitate the optimization and improvement of the process 
        described in subsection (a) as a result of the analysis and the 
        business process reengineering.
            (4) Such other matters as the Assistant Secretary considers 
        appropriate in connection with the analysis, the business 
        process reengineering and the optimization and improvement of 
        the process described in subsection (a).

SEC. 904. INCLUSION OF VICE CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU AS AN 
              ADVISOR TO THE JOINT REQUIREMENTS OVERSIGHT COUNCIL.

    Section 181(d)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by inserting ``and vice chief of the 
        national guard bureau'' after ``of staff'';
            (2) by striking ``of the Chiefs of Staff'' and inserting 
        ``of--
                    ``(A) the Chiefs of Staff'';
            (3) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) the Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
                when matters involving non-Federalized National Guard 
                capabilities in support of homeland defense or civil 
                support missions are under consideration by the 
                Council.''.

SEC. 905. ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ARCTIC REGION WITHIN THE 
              OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.

    The Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security 
Affairs shall assign responsibility for the Arctic region to the Deputy 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for the Western Hemisphere or any other 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense the Secretary of Defense 
considers appropriate.

          Subtitle B--Department of Defense Management Reform

SEC. 911. TERMINATION OF POSITION OF CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Termination.--
            (1) In general.--The position of Chief Management Officer 
        of the Department of Defense is terminated, effective on the 
        date specified by the Secretary of Defense, which date may not 
        be later than September 30, 2022.
            (2) Notice.--The Secretary shall submit to the Committees 
        on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a notice on the effective date specified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (b) Conforming Repeal of Establishing Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Section 132a of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by striking the 
        item relating to section 132a.
            (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall take effect on the effective date specified pursuant to 
        subsection (a)(1).

SEC. 912. REPORT ON ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES, DUTIES, AND 
              AUTHORITIES OF CHIEF MANAGEMENT OFFICER TO OTHER OFFICERS 
              OR EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 45 days before the effective date 
specified pursuant to section 911(a)(1), the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report setting forth the following:
            (1) The position and title of each officer or employee of 
        the Department of Defense, and the component of such officer or 
        employee, in whom the Secretary will vest responsibility and 
        authority to perform responsibilities and duties, and exercise 
        authorities, assigned to the Chief Management Officer of the 
        Department of Defense, whether by statute or by directive, 
        instruction, policy, or practice of the Department of Defense, 
        on the termination of the position of Chief Management Officer 
        under section 911.
            (2) A description of the responsibilities, duties, and 
        authorities, if any, assigned to the Chief Management Officer 
        by statute that the Secretary recommends for discontinuation or 
        modification, and a justification for such recommendation.
            (3) A description of the responsibilities, duties, and 
        authorities, if any, assigned to the Chief Management Officer 
        by directive, instruction, policy, or practice of the 
        Department that the Secretary recommends for discontinuation or 
        modification, and a justification for such recommendation.
            (4) A description of the general process and timeline for 
        the effective transfer of each responsibility, duty, and 
        authority assigned to the Chief Management Officer by statute 
        or by policy, instruction, or practice of the Department to the 
        officer or employee in whom such responsibility, duty, and 
        authority will be vested as described in paragraph (1).
            (5) A description of the manner and timeline in which the 
        resources of the Chief Management Officer, including funding 
        and human capital, will be realigned or repurposed to other 
        organizations in the Office of the Secretary of Defense or to 
        other components of the Department.
            (6) A description of the general process and timeline for 
        the assignment of responsibility of each issue under the 
        jurisdiction of the Chief Management Officer current identified 
        by the Comptroller General of the United States as ``high 
        risk'' to an officer or employee in the Department who is 
        specifically charged by the Secretary to initiate and sustain 
        progress toward resolution of such issue.
            (7) Such recommendations (including recommendations for 
        legislative action) as the Secretary considers appropriate for 
        additional authorities and resources (including funding and 
        human capital resources) necessary to ensure that each officer 
        or employee, in whom the Secretary vests responsibility and 
        authority as described in paragraph (1) is capable of 
        exercising such responsibility and authority effectively.
            (8) Such other matters in connection with the termination 
        of the position of Chief Management Officer, and the transition 
        of the responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief 
        Management Officer in connection with such termination, as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Vesting of Certain Responsibilities, Duties, and Authorities in 
Particular Officers.--In setting forth matters under paragraph (1) of 
subsection (a), the report required by that subsection shall address, 
in particular, the following:
            (1) Vesting of responsibilities, duties, and authorities of 
        the Chief Management Officer in the Deputy Secretary of Defense 
        in the Deputy Secretary's capacity as the Chief Operating 
        Officer of the Department of Defense for purposes of functions 
        specified in section 1123 of title 31, United States Code.
            (2) Vesting of responsibilities, duties, and authorities of 
        the Chief Management Officer in the Performance Improvement 
        Officer of the Department of Defense under section 142a of 
        title 10, United States Code (as added by section 913 of this 
        Act), for purposes of functions specified in section 1124 of 
        title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Other Responsibilities, Duties and Authorities.--In addition to 
any other responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the Chief 
Management Officer, the report required by subsection (a) shall 
specifically address responsibilities, duties, and authorities of the 
Chief Management Officer with respect to the following:
            (1) Establishment of policies for, and the direction and 
        management of, enterprise business operations and shared 
        business services of the Department, as set forth in section 
        132a(b) of title 10, United States Code, and section 921(b) of 
        the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
            (2) Exercise of authority, direction, and control over the 
        Defense Agencies and Department of Defense Field Activities for 
        shared business services and budget review, assessment, 
        certification, and reporting, as set forth in subsections (b) 
        and (c) of section 132a of title 10, United States Code, and 
        section 192 of that title.
            (3) Minimization of duplication of efforts, maximization of 
        efficiency and effectiveness, and establishment of metrics for 
        performance among and for all components of the Department, as 
        set forth in section 132a(b) of title 10, United States Code.
            (4) Issuance and maintenance of guidance on covered defense 
        business systems, development and maintenance of the defense 
        business enterprise architecture, exercise of authorities and 
        responsibilities with respect to common enterprise data, 
        leadership of and matters within the Defense Business Council, 
        and service as the appropriate approval official in the case of 
        certain covered defense business systems and programs, as set 
        forth in section 2222 of title 10, United States Code.
            (5) The Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan, 
        as set forth in section 240b of title 10, United States Code.
            (6) Receipt of audit reports, as set forth in section 240d 
        of title 10, United States Code.
            (7) Discharge by the Department of the annual reviews 
        required by section 11319 of title 40, United States Code.
            (8) Business transformation efforts of the defense 
        commissary system and the exchange stores system, as set forth 
        in section 631 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92).
            (9) Analysis of Department business management and 
        operations datasets, as set forth in section 922 of the John S. 
        McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
        (10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
            (10) Reviews, reports, and other actions required by 
        sections 924, 925, 926, 927, and 1624 of the John S. McCain 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, to the 
        extent such reviews, reports, and actions have not been 
        completed as of the date of the report under subsection (a).
            (11) Science and technology activities in support of 
        business systems information technology acquisition as set 
        forth in section 217 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2445a note).
            (12) Relationships with the Chief Management Officers of 
        the military departments, and the development and update of a 
        strategic management plan for the Department, as set forth in 
        section 904 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181) and the amendments made 
        by that section.

SEC. 913. PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Performance Improvement Officer.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, 
        is amended by inserting after section 142 the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 142a. Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of 
              Defense
    ``(a) There is an Performance Improvement Officer of the Department 
of Defense, who is designated as provided in section 1124(a)(1) of 
title 31.
    ``(b) The Performance Improvement Officer shall--
            ``(1) perform the duties and responsibilities, and exercise 
        the powers set forth in section 1124 of title 31; and
            ``(2) perform such additional duties and responsibilities, 
        and exercise such other powers, as the Secretary of Defense and 
        the Deputy Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
    ``(c) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense, the Performance Improvement Officer reports, 
without intervening authority, directly to the Deputy Secretary of 
Defense, in the Deputy Secretary's role as the Chief Operating Officer 
of the Department of Defense under section 1123 of title 31.
    ``(d) The Performance Improvement Officer may communicate views on 
matters within the responsibility of the Officer directly to the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense, without obtaining the approval or concurrence of 
any other officer in the Department of Defense.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of section at the 
        beginning of chapter 4 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 142 the following new item:

``142a. Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of 
                            Defense.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
        shall take effect on such date as the Secretary of Defense 
        shall specify for purposes of this section, which date may not 
        be later than one day before the effective date specified by 
        the Secretary pursuant to section 911(a)(1).
            (2) Notice.--The Secretary shall submit to the Committees 
        on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a notice on the effective date specified 
        pursuant to paragraph (1).

SEC. 914. ASSIGNMENT OF CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES TO 
              PARTICULAR OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Certain Responsibilities and Duties of Deputy Secretary of 
Defense.--
            (1) Chief operating officer of the department of defense.--
        Section 132 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) 
                as subsections (d), (e), and (f), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following 
                new subsection (c):
    ``(c)(1) In accordance with section 1123 of title 31, the Deputy 
Secretary performs the duties, has the responsibilities, and exercises 
the powers of the Chief Operating Officer of the Department of Defense.
    ``(2) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary shall supervise the 
Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense in the 
Officer's performance of duties and responsibilities specified in 
section 142a of this title.''.
            (2) Designation of priority defense business systems.--
        Section 2222(h)(5)(B) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``the Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' 
        and inserting ``the Deputy Secretary of Defense, or such other 
        officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary or the 
        Deputy Secretary may designate,''.
    (b) Periodic Reviews of Defense Agencies and Department of Defense 
Field Activities in Connection With Business Enterprise Reform.--
Section 192(c) of such title is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (3), as redesignated by 
        section 923(a)(1) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 
        Stat. 1930), as paragraph (4);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2), as added by 
        section 923(a)(2) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, as paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), respectively;
            (3) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by paragraph (2) of 
        this subsection--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary of 
                Defense, or an officer of the Department of Defense 
                designated by the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer'' and inserting ``the officer 
                conducting such review''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer'' and inserting ``the Secretary''; 
                and
            (4) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by striking ``the 
        Chief Management Officer'' each place it appears in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting ``the officer 
        conducting such review''.
    (c) Responsibility of Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) for 
Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan.--Subsection (a) of 
section 240b of such title is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) 
shall, together with such other officers and employees of the 
Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy 
Secretary of Defense may designate, shall maintain a plan to be known 
as the `Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation Plan'.''.
    (d) Performance Improvement Officer Functions for Defense Business 
Systems.--Section 2222 of such title is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e)(6)(C), by inserting ``and the 
        Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of Defense'' 
        after ``The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
        Evaluation''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(2)(B)--
                    (A) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iii) as 
                clauses (ii) through (iv), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting before clause (ii), as 
                redesignated by paragraph (1), the following new clause 
                (i):
                            ``(i) The Performance Improvement Officer 
                        of the Department of Defense.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).

SEC. 915. ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF CHIEF MANAGEMENT 
              OFFICER TO OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE TO BE DESIGNATED.

    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In section 240d(d)(1)(A), by striking ``the Chief 
        Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``any other officer or employee of the Department of Defense 
        that the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of 
        Defense may designate for purposes of this section''.
            (2) Section 2222 is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (c)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``the Chief Management 
                        Officer of the Department of Defense,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and the Chief Management 
                        Officer of each of the military departments'' 
                        and inserting ``the Chief Management Officer of 
                        each of the military departments, and other 
                        appropriate officers or employees of the 
                        Department and its components'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the 
                        Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
                        Defense'' and inserting ``such officers or 
                        employees of the Department of Defense as the 
                        Secretary shall designate'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (6)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (A)--
                                            (aa) by striking ``The 
                                        Chief Management Officer of the 
                                        Department of Defense'' and 
                                        inserting ``Such officers of 
                                        the Department of Defense as 
                                        the Secretary shall 
                                        designate''; and
                                            (bb) by striking ``the 
                                        Chief Management Officer'' and 
                                        inserting ``such officers''; 
                                        and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``The Chief Management Officer 
                                and the Under Secretary of Defense 
                                (Comptroller)'' and inserting ``The 
                                Under Secretary of Defense 
                                (Comptroller) and such other officers 
                                of the Department as the Secretary 
                                shall designate'';
                    (C) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Office and the Chief Information Office of 
                the Department of Defense'' and inserting ``the Chief 
                Information Officer of the Department of Defense and 
                such other officers or employees of the Department of 
                Defense as the Secretary may designate''; and
                    (D) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' each 
                place it appears in subparagraphs (A) and (B)(ii) and 
                inserting ``an officer or employee of the Department of 
                Defense designated by the Secretary''.
    (b) Title 40, United States Code.--Section 11319(d)(4) of title 40, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``the Chief Management 
Officer of the Department of Defense (of any successor to such 
Officer)'' and inserting ``the officer of the Department of Defense 
designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of 
Defense for such purpose''.
    (c) Public Law 116-92.--Section 631(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended 
by striking ``the Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
Defense'' and inserting ``such officer of the Department of Defense as 
the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense may 
designate''.
    (d) Public Law 115-232.--The John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232) is amended 
as follows:
            (1) In section 921(b)(1) (10 U.S.C. 2222 note)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``such officer or employee of the Department 
                of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy 
                Secretary of Defense shall designate'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) in the subparagraph heading, by 
                        striking ``CMO'';
                            (ii) by striking ``the Chief Management 
                        Officer'' the first place it appears and 
                        inserting ``the Secretary shall, acting through 
                        such officer or employee of the Department as 
                        the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary shall 
                        designate''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``by the Chief Management 
                        Officer''.
            (2) In section 922 (10 U.S.C. 2222 note)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``An officer or employee of the Department of 
                Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense or the 
                Deputy Secretary of Defense''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by striking ``The 
                                Chief Management Officer'' and 
                                inserting ``The officer or employee 
                                designated pursuant to subsection 
                                (a)''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``The Chief Management 
                                Officer'' and inserting ``such officer 
                                or employee''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the 
                        Chief Management Officer shall take appropriate 
                        actions'' and inserting ``all appropriate 
                        actions shall be taken''.
            (3) In section 924 (10 U.S.C. 191 note)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' in 
                the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``such 
                officer of the Department of Defense as the Secretary 
                or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense shall 
                designate'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``the Chief Management Officer'' 
                        and inserting ``the officer designated pursuant 
                        to subsection (a)''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the 
                        Chief Management Officer'' and inserting ``such 
                        officer''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by striking ``the Chief Management 
                        Officer'' the first place it appears and 
                        inserting ``the officer designated pursuant to 
                        subsection (a)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``the Chief Management 
                        Officer'' the second place it appears and 
                        inserting ``such officer''.
            (4) In section 925(a) (132 Stat. 1932), by striking ``the 
        Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' in the 
        matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``such officer of 
        the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the 
        Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate''.
            (5) In section 926(a) (132 Stat. 1932), by striking ``the 
        Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' in the 
        matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``such officer of 
        the Department of Defense as the Secretary or Defense or the 
        Deputy Secretary of Defense shall designate''.
            (6) In section 927 (132 Stat. 1933)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``such officer of the Department of Defense 
                as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of 
                Defense shall designate''; and
                    (B) in subsections (c) and (d), by striking ``the 
                Chief Management Officer'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``the officer designated pursuant to 
                subsection (a)''.
            (7) In section 1624(a) (10 U.S.C. 2222 note)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``such officer of the Department of Defense 
                as the Secretary or Defense or the Deputy Secretary of 
                Defense shall designate'';
                    (B) by striking ``the Chief Management Officer'' 
                each place it appears in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) 
                and inserting ``the officer designated pursuant to 
                paragraph (1)''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``and Security'' after ``for 
                Intelligence'' each place it appears.
    (e) Public Law 114-92.--The National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92) is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 217--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Deputy 
                Chief Management Officer, and the Chief Information 
                Officer'' and inserting ``the Chief Information 
                Officer, and any other officer of the Department of 
                Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense or the 
                Deputy Secretary of Defense for such purpose''; and
                    (B) in subsections (b), (f)(1)(A)(ii), and 
                (f)(2)(B), by striking ``the Deputy Chief Management 
                Officer'' each place it appears and inserting ``any 
                officer designated pursuant to subsection (a)''.
            (2) In section 881(a) (10 U.S.C. 2302 note), by striking 
        ``the Deputy Chief Management Officer,''.
    (f) Public Law 110-81.--Section 904 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-81; 122 Stat. 
273)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ``the Chief 
        Management Officer and Deputy Chief Management Officer of the 
        Department of Defense'' and inserting ``such officer of the 
        Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy 
        Secretary of Defense shall designate''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``such officer of the Department of Defense 
                as the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of 
                Defense may designate for purposes of this 
                subsection''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer'' and inserting ``the officer 
                designated pursuant to paragraph (1)''.
    (g) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).

SEC. 916. DEFINITION OF ENTERPRISE BUSINESS OPERATIONS FOR TITLE 10, 
              UNITED STATES CODE.

    Effective on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1) of 
this Act, section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(9) Enterprise business operations.--The term `enterprise 
        business operations'--
                    ``(A) means activities that constitute cross-
                cutting business operations used by multiple components 
                of the Department of Defense, but excludes activities 
                that are directly tied to a single military department 
                or Department of Defense component; and
                    ``(B) includes business-support functions 
                designated by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy 
                Secretary of Defense, including aspects of financial 
                management, healthcare, acquisition and procurement, 
                supply chain and logistics, certain information 
                technology, real property, and human resources 
                operations.''.

SEC. 917. ANNUAL REPORT ON ENTERPRISE BUSINESS OPERATIONS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than March 31 each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that includes 
the following:
            (1) Each proposed budget for the enterprise business 
        operations of a Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field 
        Activity for the fiscal year beginning in the year in which 
        such report is submitted.
            (2) An identification of each proposed budget described in 
        paragraph (1) that does not achieve required levels of 
        efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise business 
        operations.
            (3) A discussion of the actions that the Secretary proposes 
        to take, including recommendations for legislative action that 
        the Secretary considers appropriate, to address inadequate 
        levels of efficiency and effectiveness for enterprise business 
        operations achieved by the proposed budgets described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (4) Any additional comments that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate regarding inadequate levels of efficiency and 
        effectiveness for enterprise business operations achieved by 
        the proposed budgets described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Submittal.--The Secretary may submit a report required by 
subsection (a) through the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Enterprise Business Operations Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``enterprise business operations'' has the meaning given that term 
in paragraph (9) of section 101(e) of title 10, United States Code (as 
added by section 916 of this Act).

SEC. 918. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In section 131(b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (9) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (8), respectively; and
                    (C) in paragraph (7), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (F) as subparagraphs (B) through (G), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) by inserting before subparagraph (B), 
                        as redesignated by clause (i), the following 
                        new subparagraph (A):
            ``(A) The Performance Improvement Officer of the Department 
        of Defense.''.
            (2) In section 133a(c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, the Deputy 
                Secretary of Defense, and the Chief Management Officer 
                of the Department of Defense'' and inserting ``and the 
                Deputy Secretary of Defense''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer,''.
            (3) In section 133b(c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer of the Department of Defense,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Chief 
                Management Officer,''.
            (4) In section 137a(d), by striking ``the Chief Management 
        Officer of the Department of Defense,''.
            (5) In section 138(d), by striking ``the Chief Management 
        Officer of the Department of Defense,''.
            (6) In section 240b(b)(1)(C)(ii), by striking ``, the Chief 
        Management Officer,''.
    (b) Executive Schedule Level II.--Section 5313 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to the Chief 
Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the effective date specified in section 911(a)(1).

                    Subtitle C--Space Force Matters

        PART I--AMENDMENTS TO INTEGRATE THE SPACE FORCE INTO LAW

SEC. 931. CLARIFICATION OF SPACE FORCE AND CHIEF OF SPACE OPERATIONS 
              AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Composition of Space Force.--Section 9081 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the 
following new subsection (b):
    ``(b) Composition.--The Space Force consists of--
            ``(1) the Regular Space Force;
            ``(2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted 
        into, the Space Force, including those not assigned to units, 
        necessary to form the basis for a complete and immediate 
        mobilization for the national defense in the event of a 
        national emergency; and
            ``(3) all Space Force units and other Space Force 
        organizations, including installations and supporting and 
        auxiliary combat, training, administrative, and logistic 
        elements.''.
    (b) Functions.--Section 9081 of title 10, United States Code, is 
further amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following 
        new subsection (c):
    ``(c) Functions.--The Space Force shall be organized, trained, and 
equipped to--
            ``(1) provide freedom of operation for the United States 
        in, from, and to space;
            ``(2) conduct space operations; and
            ``(3) protect the interests of the United States in 
        space.''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (d).
    (c) Clarification of Chief of Space Operations Authorities.--
Section 9082 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``general 
                officers of the Air Force'' and inserting ``general, 
                flag, or equivalent officers of the Space Force''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
    ``(3) The President may appoint an officer as Chief of Space 
Operations only if--
            ``(A) the officer has had significant experience in joint 
        duty assignments; and
            ``(B) such experience includes at least one full tour of 
        duty in a joint duty assignment (as defined in section 664(d) 
        of this title) as a general, flag, or equivalent officer of the 
        Space Force.
    ``(4) The President may waive paragraph (3) in the case of an 
officer if the President determines such action is necessary in the 
national interest.'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``grade of general'' and 
        inserting ``grade in the Space Force equivalent to the grade of 
        general in the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps, or admiral in 
        the Navy''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph 
                (6); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following 
                new paragraph (5):
            ``(5) perform duties prescribed for the Chief of Space 
        Operations by sections 171 and 2547 of this title and other 
        provision of law; and''.
    (d) Repeal of Officer Career Field for Space.--Section 9083 of 
title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
    (e) Regular Space Force.--Chapter 908 of title 10, United States 
Code, as amended by subsection (d), is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new section 9083:
``Sec. 9083. Regular Space Force: composition
    ``(a) In General.--The Regular Space Force is the component of the 
Space Force that consists of persons whose continuous service on active 
duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired 
members of the Regular Space Force.
    ``(b) Composition.--The Regular Space Force includes--
            ``(1) the officers and enlisted members of the Regular 
        Space Force; and
            ``(2) the retired officers and enlisted members of the 
        Regular Space Force.''.
    (f) Table of Sections.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 908 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 9083 and inserting the following new item:

``9083. Regular Space Force: composition.''.

SEC. 931A. OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF SPACE OPERATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 908 of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 931(e) of this Act, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 9083 as section 9085; and
            (2) by inserting after section 9082 the following new 
        sections:
``Sec. 9083. Office of the Chief of Space Operations: function; 
              composition
    ``(a) Function.--There is in the executive part of the Department 
of the Air Force an Office of the Chief of Space Operations to assist 
the Secretary of the Air Force in carrying out the responsibilities of 
the Secretary.
    ``(b) Composition.--The Office of the Chief of Space Operations is 
composed of the following:
            ``(1) The Chief of Space Operations.
            ``(2) Such other offices and officials as may be 
        established by law or as the Secretary of the Air Force may 
        establish or designate.
            ``(3) Other members of the Space Force and Air Force 
        assigned or detailed to the Office of the Chief of Space 
        Operations.
            ``(4) Civilian employees in the Department of the Air Force 
        assigned or detailed to the Office of the Chief of Space 
        Operations.
    ``(c) Organization.--Except as otherwise specifically prescribed by 
law, the Office of the Chief of Space Operations shall be organized in 
such manner, and the members of the Office of the Chief of Space 
Operations shall perform such duties and have such titles, as the 
Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe.
``Sec. 9084. Office of the Chief of Space Operations: general duties
    ``(a) Professional Assistance.--The Office of the Chief of Space 
Operations shall furnish professional assistance to the Secretary of 
the Air Force, the Chief of Space Operations, and other personnel of 
the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force or the Office of the Chief 
of Space Operations.
    ``(b) Authorities.--Under the authority, direction, and control of 
the Secretary of the Air Force, the Office of the Chief of Space 
Operations shall--
            ``(1) subject to subsections (c) and (d) of section 9014 of 
        this title, prepare for such employment of the Space Force, and 
        for such recruiting, organizing, supplying, equipping 
        (including research and development), training, servicing, 
        mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and maintaining of the 
        Space Force, as will assist in the execution of any power, 
        duty, or function of the Secretary of the Air Force or the 
        Chief of Space Operations;
            ``(2) investigate and report upon the efficiency of the 
        Space Force and its preparation to support military operations 
        by commanders of the combatant commands;
            ``(3) prepare detailed instructions for the execution of 
        approved plans and supervise the execution of those plans and 
        instructions;
            ``(4) as directed by the Secretary of the Air Force or the 
        Chief of Space Operations, coordinate the action of 
        organizations of the Space Force; and
            ``(5) perform such other duties, not otherwise assigned by 
        law, as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Air Force.''.
    (b) Table of Sections.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 908 of such title, as amended by section 931(f) of this Act, is 
further amended by striking the item related to section 9083 and 
inserting the following the following new items:

``9083. Office of the Chief of Space Operations: function; composition.
``9084. Office of the Chief of Space Operations: general duties.
``9085. Regular Space Force: composition.''.

SEC. 932. AMENDMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE PROVISIONS IN TITLE 
              10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Subtitle.--
            (1) Heading.--The heading of subtitle D of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended to read as follows:

               ``Subtitle D--Air Force and Space Force''.

            (2) Table of subtitles.--The table of subtitles at the 
        beginning of such title is amended is amended by striking the 
        item relating to subtitle D and inserting the following new 
        item:

``D. Air Force and Space Force..............................    9011''.
    (b) Organization.--
            (1) Secretary of the air force.--Section 9013 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (f), by inserting ``and officers 
                of the Space Force'' after ``Officers of the Air 
                Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g)(1), by inserting ``, members 
                of the Space Force,'' after ``members of the Air 
                Force''.
            (2) Office of the secretary of the air force.--Section 9014 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (4) 
                and inserting the following new paragraph (4)
            ``(4) The Inspector General of the Department of the Air 
        Force.'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the 
                        Air Staff'' and inserting ``, the Air Staff, 
                        and the Office of the Chief of Space 
                        Operations'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or 
                        the Office of the Chief of Space Operations'' 
                        after ``the Air Staff'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``to 
                        the Chief of Staff and to the Air Staff'' and 
                        all that follows through the end and inserting 
                        ``to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and 
                        the Air Staff, and to the Chief of Space 
                        Operations and the Office of the Chief of Space 
                        Operations, and shall ensure that each such 
                        office or entity provides the Chief of Staff 
                        and Chief of Space Operations such staff 
                        support as the Chief concerned considers 
                        necessary to perform the Chief's duties and 
                        responsibilities.''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (4)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``and the Office 
                                of the Chief of Space Operations'' 
                                after ``the Air Staff''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and the Chief 
                                of Space Operations'' after ``Chief of 
                                Staff'';
                    (C) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the 
                        Air Staff'' and inserting ``, the Air Staff, 
                        and the Office of the Chief of Space 
                        Operations'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and 
                        the Office of the Chief of Space Operations'' 
                        after ``the Air Staff''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (4), by striking ``to 
                        the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and to the 
                        Air Staff'' and all that follows through the 
                        end and inserting ``to the Chief of Staff of 
                        the Air Force and the Air Staff, and to the 
                        Chief of Space Operations and the Office of the 
                        Chief of Space Operations, and shall ensure 
                        that each such office or entity provides the 
                        Chief of Staff and Chief of Space Operations 
                        such staff support as the Chief concerned 
                        considers necessary to perform the Chief's 
                        duties and responsibilities.''; and
                    (D) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``and the Air Staff'' and 
                        inserting ``, the Air Staff, and the Office of 
                        the Chief of Space Operations''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``to the other'' and 
                        inserting ``to any of the others''.
            (3) Secretary of the air force: successors to duties.--
        Section 9017(4) of such title is amended by inserting before 
        the period the following: ``of the Air Force and the Chief of 
        Space Operations, in the order prescribed by the Secretary of 
        the Air Force and approved by the Secretary of Defense''.
            (4) Inspector general.--Section 9020 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by inserting ``Department of the'' 
                        after ``Inspector General of the''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the general, flag, 
                        or equivalent officers of the Space Force'' 
                        after ``general officers of the Air Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by striking ``or the Chief of Staff'' and 
                        inserting ``, the Chief of Staff of the Air 
                        Force, or the Chief of Space Operations'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                        ``Department of the'' before ``Air Force''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or 
                        the Chief of Staff'' and inserting ``, the 
                        Chief of Staff, or the Chief of Space 
                        Operations'' ; and
                    (C) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' before ``for a tour of duty''.
            (5) The air staff: function; composition.--Section 
        9031(b)(8) of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``of the Air Force''.
            (6) Surgeon general: appointment; duties.--Section 9036(b) 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Secretary of 
                the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force 
                on all health and medical matters of the Air Force'' 
                and inserting ``Secretary of the Air Force, the Chief 
                of Staff of the Air Force, and the Chief of Space 
                Operations on all health and medical matters of the Air 
                Force and the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by inserting ``and the Space Force'' 
                        after ``of the Air Force'' the first place it 
                        appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and members of the 
                        Space Force'' after ``of the Air Force'' the 
                        second place it appears.
            (7) Judge advocate general, deputy judge advocate general: 
        appointment; duties.--Section 9037 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (e)(2)(B), by inserting ``or the 
                Space Force'' after ``of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``the 
                Secretary of the Air Force or the Chief of Staff of the 
                Air Force'' and inserting ``the Secretary of the Air 
                Force, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, or the 
                Chief of Space Operations''.
            (8) Chief of chaplains: appointment; duties.--Section 
        9039(a) of such title is amended by striking ``in the Air 
        Force'' and inserting ``for the Air Force and the Space 
        Force''.
            (9) Provision of certain professional functions for the 
        space force.--Section 9063 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsections (a) through (i), by striking 
                ``in the Air Force'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``in the Air Force and the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i), as amended by subparagraph 
                (A), by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                ``members of the Air Force''.
    (c) Personnel.--
            (1) Gender-free basis for acceptance of original 
        enlistments.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9132 of title 10, United 
                States Code, is amended by inserting ``or the Regular 
                Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9132 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: gender-free 
              basis for acceptance of original enlistments''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 913 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9132 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: gender-free basis 
                            for acceptance of original enlistments.''.
            (2) Reenlistment after service as an officer.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9138 of such title is 
                amended in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or the Regular Space 
                        Force'' after ``Regular Air Force'' both places 
                        it appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        after ``officer of the Air Force'' both places 
                        it appears.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9132 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9132. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment 
              after service as an officer''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 913 of such title, as amended 
                by paragraph (1)(C), is further by striking the item 
                relating to section 9138 and inserting the following 
                new item:

``9138. Regular Air Force and Regular Space Force: reenlistment after 
                            service as an officer.''.
            (3) Appointments in the regular air force and regular space 
        force.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9160 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) by inserting ``or the Regular Space 
                        Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        before the period.
                    (B) Chapter heading.--The heading of chapter 915 of 
                such title is amended to read as follows:

 ``CHAPTER 915--APPOINTMENTS IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE AND THE REGULAR 
                             SPACE FORCE''.

                    (C) Tables of chapters.--The table of chapters at 
                the beginning of subtitle D of such title, and at the 
                beginning of part II of subtitle D of such title, are 
                each amended by striking the item relating to chapter 
                915 and inserting the following new item:

``915. Appointments in the Regular Air Force and the Regular    9151''.
                            Space Force.
            (4) Retired commissioned officers: status.--Section 9203 of 
        such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
        ``the Air Force''.
            (5) Duties: chaplains; assistance required of commanding 
        officers.--Section 9217(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (6) Rank: commissioned officers serving under temporary 
        appointments.--Section 9222 of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force'' both 
        places it appears.
            (7) Requirement of exemplary conduct.--Section 9233 of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``and in the Space Force'' after ``the Air 
                Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting ``or 
                the Space Force, respectively'' after ``the Air 
                Force''.
            (8) Enlisted members: officers not to use as servants.--
        Section 9239 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force'' both places it appears.
            (9) Presentation of united states flag upon retirement.--
        Section 9251(a) of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (10) Service credit: regular enlisted members; service as 
        an officer to be counted as enlisted service.--Section 9252 of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Regular Space Force'' 
                after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``in the Space Force,'' after ``in 
                the Air Force,''.
            (11) When secretary may require hospitalization.--Section 
        9263 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (12) Decorations and awards.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 937 of such title is 
                amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the 
                Air Force'' each place it appears in the following 
                provisions:
                            (i) Section 9271.
                            (ii) Section 9272.
                            (iii) Section 9273.
                            (iv) Section 9276.
                            (v) Section 9281 other than the first place 
                        it appears in subsection (a).
                            (vi) Section 9286(a) other than the first 
                        place it appears.
                    (B) Medal of honor; air force cross; distinguished-
                service medal: delegation of power to award.--Section 
                9275 of such title is amended by inserting before the 
                period at the end the following: ``, or to an 
                equivalent commander of a separate space force or 
                higher unit in the field''.
            (13) Twenty years or more: regular or reserve commissioned 
        officers.--Section 9311(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``officer of the Air 
        Force''.
            (14) Twenty to thirty years: enlisted members.--Section 
        9314 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (15) Thirty years or more: regular enlisted members.--
        Section 9317 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (16) Thirty years or more: regular commissioned officers.--
        Section 9318 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (17) Forty years or more: air force officers.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9324 of such title is 
                amended in subsections (a) and (b) by inserting ``or 
                the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9324 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9324. Forty years or more: Air Force officers and Space Force 
              officers''.
                    (C) Table of sections amendment.--The table of 
                sections at the beginning of chapter 941 of such title 
                is amended by striking the item relating to section 
                9324 and inserting the following new item:

``9324. Forty years or more: Air Force officers and Space Force 
                            officers.''.
            (18) Computation of years of service: voluntary retirement; 
        enlisted members.--Section 9325(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (19) Computation of years of service: voluntary retirement; 
        regular and reserve commissioned officers.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9326(a) of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), 
                        by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``of 
                        the Air Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or the 
                        Air Force'' and inserting ``, the Air Force, or 
                        the Space Force''.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--Such section 9326(a) is 
                further amended by striking ``his'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``the officer's''.
            (20) Computation of retired pay: law applicable.--Section 
        9329 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (21) Retired grade.--
                    (A) Higher grade after 30 years of service: warrant 
                officers and enlisted members.--Section 9344 of such 
                title is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``member of the Air 
                        Force''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) in paragraphs (1) and (3), by 
                                inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                                ``Air Force'' each place it appears; 
                                and
                                    (II) in paragraph (2), by inserting 
                                ``or the Regular Space Force'' after 
                                ``Regular Air Force''.
                    (B) Restoration to former grade: retired warrant 
                officers and enlisted members.--Section 9345 of such 
                title is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                after ``member of the Air Force''.
                    (C) Retired lists.--Section 9346 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsections (a) and (d), by 
                        inserting ``or the Regular Space Force'' after 
                        ``Regular Air Force'';
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting 
                        before the semicolon the following: ``, or for 
                        commissioned officers of the Space Force other 
                        than of the Regular Space Force''; and
                            (iii) in subsections (b)(2) and (c), by 
                        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air 
                        Force''.
            (22) Recomputation of retired pay to reflect advancement on 
        retired list.--Section 9362(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (23) Fatality reviews.--Section 9381(a) of such title is 
        amended in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) by inserting ``or the 
        Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
    (d) Training.--
            (1) Members of air force: detail as students, observers, 
        and investigators at educational institutions, industrial 
        plants, and hospitals.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9401 of title 10, United 
                States Code, is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and 
                        members of the Space Force'' after ``members of 
                        the Air Force'';
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or 
                        the Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular Air 
                        Force'';
                            (iii) in subsection (c),by inserting ``or 
                        Reserve of the Space Force'' after ``Reserve of 
                        the Air Force'';
                            (iv) in subsection (e), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                            (v) in subsection (f)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``or the Regular 
                                Space Force'' after ``Regular Air 
                                Force''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``or the Space 
                                Force Reserve'' after ``the reserve 
                                components of the Air Force''.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--Subsection (c) of such 
                section 9401 is further amended--
                            (i) by striking ``his'' and inserting ``the 
                        Reserve's''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                        Reserve'',
                    (C) Heading.--The heading of such section 9401 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9401. Members of Air Force and Space Force: detail as students, 
              observers and investigators at educational institutions, 
              industrial plants, and hospitals''.
                    (D) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9401 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9401. Members of Air Force and Space Force: detail as students, 
                            observers, and investigators at educational 
                            institutions, industrial plants, and 
                            hospitals.''.
            (2) Enlisted members of air force: schools.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9402 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                inserting ``and enlisted members of the 
                                Space Force'' after ``members of the 
                                Air Force''; and
                                    (II) in the third sentence, by 
                                inserting ``and Space Force officers'' 
                                after ``Air Force officers''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``Air Force'' each 
                        place it appears.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9402 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9402. Enlisted members Air Force or Space Force: schools''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 951 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9402 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9402. Enlisted members of Air Force or Space Force: schools.''.
            (3) Service schools: leaves of absence for instructors.--
        Section 9406 of such title is amended by inserting ``or Space 
        Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (4) Degree granting authority for united states air force 
        institute of technology.--Section 9414(d)(1) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``needs of 
        the Air Force''.
            (5) United states air force institute of technology: 
        administration.--Section 9414b(a)(2) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the 
                Air Force'' each place it appears; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or the 
                equivalent grade in the Space Force'' after ``brigadier 
                general''.
            (6) Community college of the air force: associate 
        degrees.--Section 9415 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by striking ``in the Air Force'' and 
                inserting ``in the Department of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the 
                        Space Force'' after ``Air Force'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``other 
                        than'' and all that follows through the end and 
                        inserting ``other than the Air Force or the 
                        Space Force who are serving as instructors at 
                        Department of the Air Force training 
                        schools.''; and
                            (iii) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (7) Air force academy establishment; superintendent; 
        faculty.--Section 9431(a) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``Air Force cadets'' and inserting ``cadets''.
            (8) Air force academy superintendent; faculty: appointment 
        and detail.--Section 9433(a) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (9) Air force academy permanent professors; director of 
        admissions.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9436 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, by 
                                inserting ``in the Air Force or the 
                                equivalent grade in the Space Force'' 
                                after ``colonel'';
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                inserting ``and a permanent professor 
                                appointed from the Regular Space Force 
                                has the grade equivalent to the grade 
                                of colonel in the Regular Air Force'' 
                                after ``grade of colonel''; and
                                    (III) in the third sentence, by 
                                inserting ``in the Air Force or the 
                                equivalent grade in the Space Force'' 
                                after ``lieutenant colonel''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)--
                                    (I) in the first sentence, ``in the 
                                Air Force or the equivalent grade in 
                                the Space Force'' after ``colonel'' 
                                each place it appears; and
                                    (II) in the second sentence, by 
                                inserting ``and a person appointed from 
                                the Regular Space Force has the grade 
                                equivalent to the grade of colonel in 
                                the Regular Air Force'' after ``grade 
                                of colonel''.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--Subsections (a) and (b) 
                of such section 9436 are further amended by striking 
                ``he'' each place it appears and inserting ``such 
                person''.
            (10) Cadets: appointment; numbers, territorial 
        distribution.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9442 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) by striking ``Air Force Cadets'' each 
                        place it appears and inserting ``cadets''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting 
                        ``or the Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular 
                        Air Force''.
                    (B) Technical amendment.--Subsection (b)(4) of such 
                section 9442 is amended by striking ``him'' and 
                inserting ``the Secretary''.
            (11) Cadets: agreement to serve as officer.--Section 
        9448(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``or the 
                Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting before the 
                semicolon the following: ``or as a Reserve in the Space 
                Force for service in the Space Force Reserve''.
            (12) Cadets: organization; service; instruction.--Section 
        9449 of such title is amended by striking subsection (d).
            (13) Cadets: hazing.--Section 9452(c) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``an Air Force cadet'' and 
                inserting ``a cadet''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting 
                ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
            (14) Cadets: degree and commission on graduation.--Section 
        9453(b) of such title is amended by inserting ``or in the 
        equivalent grade in the Regular Space Force'' after ``Regular 
        Air Force''.
            (15) Support of athletic programs.--Section 9462(c)(2) of 
        such title is amended by striking ``personnel of the Air 
        Force'' and inserting ``personnel of the Department of the Air 
        Force''.
            (16) Schools and camps: establishment: purpose.--Section 
        9481 of such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``, the Space Force,'' after 
                ``members of the Air Force,''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or the Space Force Reserve'' 
                after ``the Air Force Reserve''.
            (17) Schools and camps: operation.--Section 9482 of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or the Regular 
                Space Force'' after ``Regular Air Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (7), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or Space Force'' after 
                ``Air Force''.
    (e) Service, Supply, and Procurement.--
            (1) Equipment: bakeries, schools, kitchens, and mess 
        halls.--Section 9536 of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``or 
        the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (2) Rations.--Section 9561 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in the first sentence, by inserting 
                        ``and the Space Force ration'' after ``the Air 
                        Force ration''; and
                            (ii) in the second sentence, by inserting 
                        ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''; 
                        and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (3) Clothing.--Section 9562 of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``and members of the Space Force'' after ``the Air 
        Force''.
            (4) Clothing: replacement when destroyed to prevent 
        contagion.--Section 9563 of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``or the Space Force'' after ``member of the Air Force''.
            (5) Colors, standards, and guidons of demobilized 
        organizations: disposition.--Section 9565 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                after ``organizations of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (6) Utilities: proceeds from overseas operations.--Section 
        9591 of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space 
        Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (7) Quarters: heat and light.--Section 9593 of such title 
        is amended by inserting ``and members of the Space Force'' 
        after ``the Air Force''.
            (8) Air force military history institute: fee for providing 
        historical information to the public.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9594 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsections (a) and (d), by 
                        inserting ``Department of the'' before ``Air 
                        Force Military History'' each place it appears; 
                        and
                            (ii) in subsection (e)(1)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``Department of 
                                the'' before ``Air Force Military 
                                History''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and the Space 
                                Force'' after ``materials of the Air 
                                Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9594 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: 
              fee for providing historical information to the public''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 967 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9594 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9594. Department of the Air Force Military History Institute: fee for 
                            providing historical information to the 
                            public.''.
            (9) Subsistence and other supplies: members of armed 
        forces; veterans; executive or military departments and 
        employees; prices.--Section 9621 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and 
                        members of the Space Force'' after ``the Air 
                        Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and 
                        officers of the Space Force'' after ``the Air 
                        Force'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force'';
                    (C) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force'';
                    (D) in subsection (d), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'';
                    (E) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        after ``the Air Force'' the first place it 
                        appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or the Space Force, 
                        respectively'' after ``the Air Force'' the 
                        second place it appears;
                    (F) in subsection (f), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``the Air Force''; and
                    (G) in subsection (h)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
                        after ``the Air Force'' the first place it 
                        appears; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or members of the Space 
                        Force'' after ``members of the Air Force''.
            (10) Rations: commissioned officers in field.--Section 9622 
        of such title is amended by inserting ``and commissioned 
        officers of the Space Force'' after ``officers of the Air 
        Force''.
            (11) Medical supplies: civilian employees of the air 
        force.--Section 9624(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``air base'' and inserting ``Air 
                Force or Space Force military installation''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Air Force when'' and inserting 
                ``Department of the Air Force when''.
            (12) Ordnance property: officers of armed forces; civilian 
        employees of air force.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9625 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or 
                        the Space Force'' after ``officers of the Air 
                        Force''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (b), by striking ``the 
                        Air Force'' and inserting ``the Department of 
                        the Air Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9625. Ordnance property: officers of the armed forces; civilian 
              employees of the Department of the Air Force; American 
              National Red Cross; educational institutions; homes for 
              veterans' orphans''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 969 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9625 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9625. Ordnance property: officers of the armed forces; civilian 
                            employees of the Department of the Air 
                            Force; American National Red Cross; 
                            educational institutions; homes for 
                            veterans' orphans.''.
            (13) Supplies: educational institutions.--Section 9627 of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``for 
                the Air Force'';
                    (B) by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                ``officer of the Air Force''; and
                    (C) by striking ``air science and tactics'' and 
                inserting ``science and tactics''.
            (14) Supplies: military instruction camps.--Section 9654 of 
        such title is amended--
                    (A) by inserting ``or Space Force'' after ``an Air 
                Force''; and
                    (B) by striking ``air science and tactics'' and 
                inserting ``science and tactics''.
            (15) Disposition of effects of deceased persons by summary 
        court-martial.--Section 9712(a)(1) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (16) Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, 
        training, supply base, or aviation field.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9771 of such title is 
                amended in paragraph (2) by inserting ``or space 
                mission-related facility'' after ``aviation field''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9771 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, 
              supply base, aviation field, or space mission-related 
              facility''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 979 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9771 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9771. Acceptance of donations: land for mobilization, training, 
                            supply base, aviation field, or space 
                            mission-related facility.''.
            (17) Acquisition and construction: air bases and depots.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9773 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) by striking ``permanent air 
                                bases'' and inserting ``permanent Air 
                                Force and Space Force military 
                                installations'';
                                    (II) by striking ``existing air 
                                bases'' and inserting ``existing 
                                installations''; and
                                    (III) by inserting ``or the Space 
                                Force'' after ``training of the Air 
                                Force'';
                            (ii) in subsections (b) and (c), by 
                        striking ``air bases'' each place it appears 
                        and inserting ``installations'';
                            (iii) in subsection (b)(7), by inserting 
                        ``or Space Force'' after ``Air Force'';
                            (iv) in subsection (c)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (1), by inserting 
                                ``or Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; 
                                and
                                    (II) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by 
                                inserting ``or the Space Force'' after 
                                ``the Air Force'' both places it 
                                appears; and
                            (v) in subsection (f), by striking ``air 
                        base'' and inserting ``installation''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 9773 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9773. Acquisition and construction: installations and depots''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 979 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 9773 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``9773. Acquisition and construction: installations and depots.''.
            (18) Emergency construction: fortifications.--Section 9776 
        of such title is amended by striking ``air base'' and inserting 
        ``installation''.
            (19) Use of public property.--Section 9779 of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``economy of the Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or the Space 
                Force'' after ``support of the Air Force''.
            (20) Disposition of real property at missile sites.--
        Section 9781(a)(2) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``Air Force'' and inserting ``Department of 
                the Air Force'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``Air Force'' 
                the first two places it appears and inserting 
                ``Department of the Air Force''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``Air Force'' 
                and inserting ``Department of the Air Force''.
            (21) Maintenance and repair of real property.--Section 9782 
        of such title is amended in subsections (c) and (d) by 
        inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``the Air Force'' both 
        places it appears.
            (22) Settlement of accounts: remission or cancellation of 
        indebtedness of members.--Section 9837(a) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``member of 
        the Air Force''.
            (23) Final settlement of officer's accounts.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 9840 of such title is 
                amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air 
                Force''.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--Such section 9840 is 
                further amended--
                            (i) by striking ``he'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``the officer''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``the officer's''.
            (24) Payment of small amounts to public creditors.--Section 
        9841 of such title is amended by inserting ``or Space Force'' 
        after ``official of Air Force''.
            (25) Settlement of accounts of line officers.--Section 9842 
        of such title is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
        after ``Air Force''.
    (f) Service of Incumbents in Certain Positions Without 
Reappointment.--
            (1) In general.--The individual serving in a position under 
        a provision of law specified in paragraph (2) as of the date of 
        the enactment of this Act may continue to serve in such 
        position after that date without further appointment as 
        otherwise provided by such provision of law, notwithstanding 
        the amendment of such provision of law by subsection (b).
            (2) Provisions of law.--The provisions of law specified in 
        this paragraph are the provisions of title 10, United States 
        Code, as follows:
                    (A) Section 9020, relating to the Inspector General 
                of the Department of the Air Force.
                    (B) Section 9036. relating to the Surgeon General 
                of the Air Force.
                    (C) Section 9037(a), relating to the Judge Advocate 
                General of the Air Force.
                    (D) Section 9037(d), relating to the Deputy Judge 
                Advocate General of the Air Force.
                    (E) Section 9039, relating to the Chief of 
                Chaplains for the Air Force and the Space Force.

SEC. 933. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER PROVISIONS OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES 
              CODE.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 101(b)(13) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended in paragraph (13), by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and 
inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
    (b) Other Provisions of Subtitle A.--
            (1) Space force I.--Subtitle A of title 10, United States 
        Code, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by 
        striking ``and Marine Corps'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, and Space Force'' in the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) Section 116(a)(1) in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (B) Section 533(a)(2).
                    (C) Section 646.
                    (D) Section 661(a).
                    (E) Section 712(a).
                    (F) Section 717(c)(1).
                    (G) Subsections (c) and (d) of section 741.
                    (H) Section 743.
                    (I) Section 1111(b)(4).
                    (J) Subsections (a)(2)(A) and (c)(2)(A)(ii) of 
                section 1143.
                    (K) Section 1174(j).
                    (L) Section 1463(a)(1).
                    (M) Section 1566.
                    (N) Section 2217(c)(2).
                    (O) Section 2259(a).
                    (P) Section 2640(j).
            (2) Space force II.--
                    (A) In general.--Such subtitle is further amended 
                by striking ``Marine Corps,'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``Marine Corps, Space Force,'' in the 
                following provisions:
                            (i) Section 123(a).
                            (ii) Section 172(a).
                            (iii) Section 518.
                            (iv) Section 747.
                            (v) Section 749.
                            (vi) Section 1552(c)(1).
                            (vii) Section 2632(c)(2)(A).
                            (viii) Section 2686(a).
                            (ix) Section 2733(a).
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of section 747 of such 
                title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 747. Command: when different commands of Army, Navy, Air Force, 
              Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard join''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 43 of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 747 and inserting 
                the following new item:

``747. Command: when different commands of Army, Navy, Air Force, 
                            Marine Corps, Space Force, and Coast Guard 
                            join.''.
            (3) Space force III.--Such subtitle is further amended by 
        striking ``or Marine Corps'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' in the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) Section 125(b).
                    (B) Section 541(a).
                    (C) Section 601(a).
                    (D) Section 603(a).
                    (E) Section 619(a).
                    (F) Section 619a(a).
                    (G) Section 624(c).
                    (H) Section 625(b).
                    (I) Subsections (a) and (d) of section 631.
                    (J) Section 632(a).
                    (K) Section 637(a)(2).
                    (L) Section 638(a).
                    (M) Section 741(d).
                    (N) Section 771.
                    (O) Section 772.
                    (P) Section 773.
                    (Q) Section 1123.
                    (R) Section 1143(d).
                    (S) Section 1174(a)(2).
                    (T) Section 1251(a).
                    (U) Section 1252(a).
                    (V) Section 1253(a).
                    (W) Section 1375.
                    (X) Section 1413a(h).
                    (Y) Section 1551.
                    (Z) Section 1561(a).
                    (AA) Section 1731(a)(1)(A)(ii).
                    (BB) Section 2102(a).
                    (CC) Section 2103a(a)(2).
                    (DD) Section 2104(b)(5).
                    (EE) Section 2107.
                    (FF) Section 2421.
                    (GG) Section 2631(a).
                    (HH) Section 2787(a).
            (4) Regular space force I.--Such subtitle is further 
        amended by striking ``or Regular Marine Corps'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space 
        Force'' in the following provisions:
                    (A) Section 531(c).
                    (B) Section 532(a) in the matter preceding 
                paragraph (1).
                    (C) Subsections (a)(1), (b)(1), and (f) of section 
                533.
                    (D) Section 633(a).
                    (E) Section 634(a).
                    (F) Section 635.
                    (G) Section 636(a).
                    (H) Section 647(c).
                    (I) Section 688(b)(1).
                    (J) Section 1181.
            (5) Regular space force II.--Such subtitle is further 
        amended by striking ``Regular Marine Corps,'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, Regular Space 
        Force,'' in the following provisions:
                    (A) Section 505.
                    (B) Section 506.
                    (C) Section 508.
            (6) Transfer, etc. of functions, powers, and duties.--
        Section 125(b) of such title, as amended by paragraph (3)(A), 
        is further amended by striking ``or 9062(c)'' and inserting 
        ``9062(c), or 9081''.
            (7) Joint staff matters.--
                    (A) Appointment of chairman; grade and rank.--
                Section 152 of such title is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (b)(1)(C), by striking 
                        ``or the Commandant of the Marine Corps'' and 
                        inserting ``the Commandant of the Marine Corps, 
                        or the Chief of Space Operations''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (c), by striking ``or, 
                        in the case of the Navy, admiral'' and 
                        inserting ``, in the case of the Navy, admiral, 
                        or, in the case of an officer of the Space 
                        Force, the equivalent grade,''.
                    (B) Inclusion of space force on joint staff.--
                Section 155(a) of such title is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``the 
                        Space Force and'' before ``the Coast Guard'';
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (3) as 
                        paragraph (4); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the 
                        following new paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Officers of the Space Force assigned to serve on the Joint 
Staff shall be selected by the Chairman in a number that, to the extent 
practicable, bears the same proportion to the numbers of officers of 
the armed forces selected under paragraph (2) as the number of Regular 
members of the Space Force bears to the number of Regular members of 
the armed forces specified in that paragraph (with the Navy and the 
Marine Corps treated as a single armed force for purposes of this 
paragraph).''.
            (8) Armed forces policy council.--Section 171(a) of such 
        title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (15), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (16), by striking the period and 
                inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(17) the Chief of Space Operations.''.
            (9) Joint requirements oversight council.--Section 
        181(c)(1) of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subparagraph:
                    ``(F) A Space Force officer in the grade equivalent 
                to the grade of general in the Army, Air Force, or 
                Marine Corps, or admiral in the Navy.''.
            (10) Unfunded priorities.--Section 222a(b) of such title is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph 
                (6); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(5) The Chief of Space Operations.''.
            (11) Theater security cooperation expenses.--Section 
        312(b)(3) of such title is amended by inserting ``the Chief of 
        Space Operations,'' after ``the Commandant of the Marine 
        Corps,''.
            (12) Western hemisphere institute.--Section 343(e)(1)(E) of 
        such title is amended by inserting ``or Space Force'' after 
        ``for the Air Force''.
            (13) Original appointments of commissioned officers.--
        Section 531(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and in the 
                grades of ensign, lieutenant (junior grade), and 
                lieutenant in the Regular Navy'' and inserting ``in the 
                grades of ensign, lieutenant (junior grade), and 
                lieutenant in the Regular Navy, and in the equivalent 
                grades in the Regular Space Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and in the 
                grades of lieutenant commander, commander, and captain 
                in the Regular Navy'' and inserting ``in the grades of 
                lieutenant commander, commander, and captain in the 
                Regular Navy, and in the equivalent grades in the 
                Regular Space Force''.
            (14) Service credit upon original appointment as a 
        commissioned officer.--Section 533(b)(2) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``or captain in the Navy'' and inserting 
        ``, captain in the Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space 
        Force''.
            (15) Senior joint officer positions: recommendations to the 
        secretary of defense.--Section 604(a)(1)(A) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``and the name of at least one Space Force 
        officer'' after ``Air Force officer''.
            (16) Force shaping authority.--Section 647(a)(2) of such 
        title is amended by striking ``of that armed force''.
            (17) Members: required service.--Section 651(b) of such 
        title is amended by striking ``of his armed force''.
            (18) Career flexibility to enhance retention of members.--
        Section 710(c)(1) of such title is amended by striking ``the 
        armed force concerned'' and inserting ``an armed force''.
            (19) Senior members of military staff committee of united 
        nations.--Section 711 of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``or the Space Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (20) Rank: chief of space operations.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 743 of such title is 
                amended by striking ``and the Commandant of the Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``the Commandant of the Marine 
                Corps, and the Chief of Space Operations''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 743 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief of Naval 
              Operations; Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Commandant 
              of the Marine Corps; Chief of Space Operations''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 43 of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 743 and inserting 
                the following new item:

``743. Rank: Chief of Staff of the Army; Chief of Naval Operations; 
                            Chief of Staff of the Air Force; Commandant 
                            of the Marine Corps; Chief of Space 
                            Operations.''.
            (21) Uniform code of military justice.--Chapter 47 of such 
        title (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is amended--
                    (A) in section 822(a)(7) (article 22(a)(7)), by 
                striking ``Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, 
                or the commanding officer of a corresponding unit of 
                the Space Force'';
                    (B) in section 823(a) (article 23(a))--
                            (i) in paragraph (2)--
                                    (I) by striking ``Air Force base'' 
                                and inserting ``Air Force or Space 
                                Force military installation''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``or the Air 
                                Force'' and inserting ``the Air Force, 
                                or the Space Force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``or a 
                        corresponding unit of the Space Force'' after 
                        ``Air Force''; and
                    (C) in section 824(a)(3) (article 24(a)(3)), by 
                inserting ``or a corresponding unit of the Space 
                Force'' after ``Air Force''.
            (22) Service as cadet or midshipman not counted for length 
        of service.--Section 971(b)(2) of such title is amended by 
        striking ``or Air Force'' and inserting ``, Air Force, or Space 
        Force''.
            (23) Referral bonus.--Section 1030(h)(3) of such title is 
        amended by inserting ``and the Space Force'' after ``concerning 
        the Air Force''.
            (24) Return to active duty from temporary disability.--
        Section 1211(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting ``, the Air 
                Force, or the Space Force''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (6)--
                            (i) by striking ``or the Air Force, who'' 
                        and inserting ``the Air Force, or the Space 
                        Force who''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or the Air Force, as'' 
                        and inserting ``the Air Force, or the Space 
                        Force, as''.
            (25) Years of service.--Section 1405(c) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``or Air Force'' and inserting ``, Air 
        Force, or Space Force''.
            (26) Retired pay base for persons who became members before 
        september 8, 1980.--Section 1406 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in the heading of subsection (e), by inserting 
                ``and Space Force'' after ``Air Force''; and
                    (B) in subsection (i)(3)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clause (v) as 
                                clause (vi); and
                                    (II) by inserting after clause (iv) 
                                the following new clause (v):
                            ``(v) Chief of Space Operations.''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clause (v) as 
                                clause (vi); and
                                    (II) by inserting after clause (iv) 
                                the following new clause (v):
                            ``(v) The senior enlisted advisor of the 
                        Space Force.''.
            (27) Special requirements for military personnel in the 
        acquisition field.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1722a(a) of such title is 
                amended by striking ``and the Commandant of the Marine 
                Corps (with respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and 
                Marine Corps, respectively)'' and inserting ``, the 
                Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space 
                Operations (with respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, 
                Marine Corps, and Space Force, respectively)''.
                    (B) Clarifying amendment.--Such section 1722a(a) is 
                further amended by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
                Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'' 
                and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
                Acquisition and Sustainment''.
            (28) Senior military acquisition advisors.--Section 
        1725(e)(1)(C) of such title is amended by inserting ``and Space 
        Force'' before the period.
            (29) Military family readiness council.--Section 
        1781a(b)(1) of such title is amended by striking ``Marine 
        Corps, and Air Force'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space Force''.
            (30) Financial assistance program for specially selected 
        members.--Section 2107 of such title is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``or as a'' and inserting 
                        ``, as a''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or as an officer in the 
                        equivalent grade in the Space Force'' after 
                        ``Marine Corps,'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the 
                        reserve component of the armed force in which 
                        he is appointed as a cadet or midshipman'' and 
                        inserting ``the reserve component of an armed 
                        force''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5), by striking 
                        ``reserve component of that armed force'' each 
                        place it appears and inserting ``reserve 
                        component of an armed force''; and
                    (C) in subsection (d), by striking ``second 
                lieutenant or ensign'' and inserting ``second 
                lieutenant, ensign, or an equivalent grade in the Space 
                Force''.
            (31) Space rapid capabilities office.--Section 2273a(d) of 
        such title is amended by striking paragraph (3).
            (32) Acquisition-related functions of chiefs of the armed 
        forces.--Section 2547(a) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``and the Commandant of the Marine Corps'' and inserting ``the 
        Commandant of the Marine Corps, and the Chief of Space 
        Operations''.
            (33) Agreements related to military training, testing, and 
        operations.--Section 2684a(i) of such title is amended by 
        inserting ``Space Force,'' before ``or Defense-wide 
        activities'' each place it appears.
    (c) Provisions of Subtitle B.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle B of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force'' in the 
        following provisions:
                    (A) Section 7452(c).
                    (B) Section 7621(d).
            (2) Computation of years of service.--Section 7326(a)(1) of 
        such title is amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and 
        inserting ``, the Air Force, or the Space Force''.
    (d) Provisions of Subtitle C.--
            (1) Cadets; hazing.--Section 8464(f) of title 10, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
            (2) Sales prices.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 8802 of such title is 
                amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting 
                ``, the Air Force, or the Space Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 8802 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force, and Space Force; 
              prices''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 879 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 8802 and 
                inserting the following new item:

``8802. Sales: members of Army, Air Force, and Space Force; prices.''.
            (3) Sales to certain veterans.--Section 8803 of such title 
        is amended by striking ``or the Marine Corps'' and inserting 
        ``the Marine Corps, or the Space Force''.
            (4) Subsistence and other supplies.--Section 8806(d) of 
        such title is amended by striking ``or Air Force or Marine 
        Corps'' and inserting ``, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Space 
        Force''.
            (5) Scope of chapter on prize.--Section 8851(a) of such 
        title is amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting 
        ``, the Air Force, or the Space Force''.

SEC. 934. AMENDMENTS TO PROVISIONS OF LAW RELATING TO PAY AND 
              ALLOWANCES.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 101 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraphs (3) and (4), by inserting ``Space 
        Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,'' each place it appears; and
            (2) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting ``and the Space 
        Force'' after ``Air Force''.
    (b) Basic Pay Rates.--
            (1) Commissioned officers.--Footnote 2 of the table titled 
        ``COMMISSIONED OFFICERS'' in section 601(c) of the John Warner 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public 
        Law 109-364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by inserting after 
        ``Commandant of the Marine Corps,'' the following: ``Chief of 
        Space Operations,''.
            (2) Enlisted members.--Footnote 2 of the table titled 
        ``ENLISTED MEMBERS'' in section 601(c) of the John Warner 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public 
        Law 109-364; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note) is amended by inserting after 
        ``Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,'' the following: ``the 
        senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force,''.
    (c) Pay Grades: Assignment to; General Rules.--Section 201(a) of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) For the purpose'' and inserting 
        ``(a)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), for the purpose''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) For the purpose of computing their basic pay, commissioned 
officers of the Space Force are assigned to the pay grades in the table 
in paragraph (1) by grade or rank in the Air Force that is equivalent 
to the grade or rank in which such officers are serving in the Space 
Force.''.
    (d) Pay of Senior Enlisted Members.--Section 210(c) of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) The senior enlisted advisor of the Space Force.''.
    (e) Allowances Other Than Travel and Transportation Allowances.--
            (1) Personal money allowance.--Section 414 of title 37, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(5), by inserting ``Chief of 
                Space Operations,'' after ``Commandant of the Marines 
                Corps,''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by inserting ``the senior 
                enlisted advisor of the Space Force,'' after ``the 
                Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps,''.
            (2) Clothing allowance: enlisted members.--Section 418(d) 
        of such title is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or the Marine 
                Corps'' and inserting ``the Marine Corps, or the Space 
                Force''.
    (f) Travel and Transportation Allowances: Parking Expenses.--
Section 481i(b) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``or Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
    (g) Leave.--
            (1) Addition of space force.--Chapter 9 of title 37, United 
        States Code, is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after 
        ``Marines Corps,'' each place it appears in the following 
        provisions:
                    (A) Subsections (b)(1) and (e)(1) of section 501.
                    (B) Section 502(a).
                    (C) Section 503(a).
            (2) Addition of regular space force.--Section 501(b)(5)(C) 
        of such title is amended by striking ``or Regular Marine 
        Corps'' and inserting ``Regular Marine Corps, or Regular Space 
        Force''.
            (3) Technical amendments.--Chapter 9 of such title is 
        further amended as follows:
                    (A) In section 501(b)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``his'' each place it 
                        appears and inserting ``the member's''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``he'' and inserting ``the 
                        member''.
                    (B) In section 502--
                            (i) by striking ``his designated 
                        representative'' each place it appears and 
                        inserting ``the Secretary's designated 
                        representative'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a), by striking ``he'' 
                        each place it appears and inserting ``the 
                        member''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (b), by striking 
                        ``his'' and inserting ``the member's''.
    (h) Allotment and Assignment of Pay.--
            (1) In general.--Subsections (a), (c), and (d) of section 
        701 of title 37, United States Code, are each amended by 
        striking ``or Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
        Space Force''.
            (2) Technical amendments.--Such section 701 is further 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``his'' and 
                inserting ``the officer's'';
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``his'' and 
                inserting ``the person's''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c), by striking ``his pay, and 
                if he does so'' and inserting ``the member's pay, and 
                if the member does so''.
            (3) Heading.--The heading of such section 701 is amended to 
        read as follows:
``Sec. 701. Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and 
              Space Force; contract surgeons''.
            (4) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 13 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 701 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``701. Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Space 
                            Force; contract surgeons.''.
    (i) Forfeiture of Pay.--
            (1) Forfeiture for absence for intemperate use of alcohol 
        or drugs.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 802 of title 37, United 
                States Code, is amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' 
                and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--Such section 802 is 
                further amended by striking ``his'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``the member's''.
            (2) Forfeiture when dropped from rolls.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 803 of such title is 
                amended by striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting 
                ``, the Air Force, or the Space Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 803 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 803. Commissioned officers of the Army, Air Force, or Space 
              Force: forfeiture of pay when dropped from rolls''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 15 of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 803 and inserting 
                the following new item:

``803. Commissioned officers of the Army, Air Force, or Space Force: 
                            forfeiture of pay when dropped from 
                            rolls.''.
    (j) Effect on Pay of Extension of Enlistment.--Section 906 of title 
37, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after 
``Marine Corps,''.
    (k) Administration of Pay.--
            (1) Prompt payment required.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1005 of title 37, United 
                States Code, is amended by striking ``and of the Air 
                Force'' and inserting ``, the Air Force, and the Space 
                Force''.
                    (B) Heading.--The heading of such section 1005 is 
                amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1005. Army, Air Force, and Space Force: prompt payments 
              required''.
                    (C) Table of sections.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 15 of such title is amended by 
                striking the item relating to section 803 and inserting 
                the following new item:

``1005. Army, Air Force, and Space Force: prompt payments required.''.
            (2) Deductions from pay.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1007 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) in subsections (b), (d), (f), and (g), 
                        by striking ``or the Air Force'' and inserting 
                        ``, the Air Force, or the Space Force''; and
                            (ii) in subsection (e), by striking ``or 
                        Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or 
                        Space Force''.
                    (B) Technical amendments.--Such section 1007 is 
                further amended--
                            (i) in subsection (b), by striking ``him'' 
                        and inserting ``the member'';
                            (ii) in subsection (d), by striking ``his'' 
                        each place it appears and inserting ``the 
                        member's''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (f)--
                                    (I) by striking ``his'' and 
                                inserting ``the officer's''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``he'' both places 
                                it appears and inserting ``the 
                                officer''.

SEC. 935. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO PROVISIONS OF LAW ON VETERANS' 
              BENEFITS.

    (a) Addition of Space Service to References to Military, Naval, or 
Air Service.--Title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or 
air service'' and inserting ``air, or space service'' each place it 
appears in the following provisions:
            (1) Paragraphs (2), (5), (12), (16), (17), (18), (24), and 
        (32) of section 101.
            (2) Section 105(a).
            (3) Section 106(b).
            (4) Section 701.
            (5) Paragraphs (1) and (2)(A) of section 1101.
            (6) Section 1103.
            (7) Section 1110.
            (8) Subsections (b)(1) and (c)(1) of section 1112.
            (9) Section 1113(b).
            (10) Section 1131.
            (11) Section 1132.
            (12) Section 1133.
            (13) Section 1137.
            (14) Section 1141.
            (15) Section 1153.
            (16) Section 1301.
            (17) Subsections (a) and (b) of section 1302.
            (18) Section 1310(b).
            (19) Section 1521(j).
            (20) Section 1541(h).
            (21) Subsections (a)(2)(B) and (e)(3) of section 1710.
            (22) Section 1712(a).
            (23) Section 1712A(c).
            (24) Section 1717(d)(1).
            (25) Subsections (b) and (c) of section 1720A.
            (26) Section 1720D(c)(3).
            (27) Section 1720E(a).
            (28) Section 1720G(a)(2)(B).
            (29) Subsections (b)(2), (e)(1), and (e)(4) of section 
        1720I.
            (30) Section 1781(a)(3).
            (31) Section 1783(b)(1).
            (32) Section 1922(a).
            (33) Section 2002(b)(1).
            (34) Section 2101A(a)(1).
            (35) Subsections (a)(1)(C) and (d) of section 2301.
            (36) Section 2302(a).
            (37) Section 2303(b)(2).
            (38) Subsections (b)(4)(A) and (g)(2) of section 2306.
            (39) Section 2402(a)(1).
            (40) Section 3018B(a).
            (41) Section 3102(a)(1)(A)(ii).
            (42) Subsections (a) and (b)(2)(A) of section 3103.
            (43) Section 3113(a).
            (44) Section 3501(a).
            (45) Section 3512(b)(1)(B)(iii).
            (46) Section 3679(c)(2)(A).
            (47) Section 3701(b)(2).
            (48) Section 3712(e)(2).
            (49) Section 3729(c)(1).
            (50) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 3901(1).
            (51) Subsections (c)(1)(A) and (d)(2)(B) of section 5103A.
            (52) Section 5110(j).
            (53) Section 5111(a)(2)(A).
            (54) Section 5113(b)(3)(C).
            (55) Section 5303(e).
            (56) Section 6104(c).
            (57) Section 6105(a).
            (58) Subsections (a)(1) and (b)(3) of section 6301.
            (59) Section 6303(b).
            (60) Section 6304(b)(1).
            (61) Section 8301.
    (b) Definitions.--
            (1) Armed forces.--Paragraph (10) of section 101 of title 
        38, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``Space 
        Force,'' after ``Air Force,''.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--Paragraph (25)(C) of such section 
        is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' before the 
        semicolon.
            (3) Space force reserve.--Paragraph (27) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (G) 
                as subparagraphs (F) through (H), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the 
                following new subparagraph (E):
                    ``(E) the Space Force Reserve;''.
    (c) Placement of Employees in Military Installations.--Section 701 
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking ``and Air 
Force'' and inserting ``Air Force, and Space Force''.
    (d) Consideration to Be Accorded Time, Place, and Circumstances of 
Service.--Section 1154(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``or air organization'' and inserting ``air, or space 
organization''.
    (e) Premium Payments.--Section 1908 of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
    (f) Secretary Concerned for GI Bill.--Section 3020(l)(3) of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
before the semicolon.
    (g) Definitions for Post-9/11 GI Bill.--Section 3301(2)(C) of title 
38,United States Code, is amended by inserting ``or the Space Force'' 
after ``Air Force''.
    (h) Provision of Credit Protection and Other Services.--Section 
5724(c)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or 
Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.

SEC. 936. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER PROVISIONS OF THE UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Title 5; Definition of Armed Forces.--Section 2101(2) of title 
5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after ``Marine Corps,'' 
the following: ``Space Force,''.
    (b) Title 14.--
            (1) Voluntary retirement.--Section 2152 of title 14, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``or Marine Corps'' and 
        inserting ``Marine Corps, or Space Force''.
            (2) Computation of length of service.--Section 2513 of such 
        title is amended by inserting after ``Air Force,'' the 
        following: ``Space Force,''.
    (c) Title 18; Firearms as Nonmailable.--Section 1715 of such title 
is amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
    (d) Title 31.--
            (1) Definitions relating to claims.--Section 3701(a)(7) of 
        title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``Space 
        Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
            (2) Collection and compromise.--Section 3711(f) of such 
        title is amended in paragraphs (1) and (3) by inserting ``Space 
        Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,'' each place it appears.
    (e) Title 41; Honorable Discharge Certificate in Lieu of Birth 
Certificate.--Section 6309(a) of title 41, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``Space Force,'' after ``Marine Corps,''.
    (f) Title 51; Powers of the Administration in Performance of 
Functions.--Section 20113(l) of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Services'' and 
        inserting ``Forces''; and
            (2) by striking ``and Marine Corps'' and inserting ``Marine 
        Corps, and Space Force''.

SEC. 937. APPLICABILITY TO OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW.

    (a) Secretary of Defense Authority.--The authority of the Secretary 
of Defense with respect to the Air Force or members of the Air Force 
under any covered provision of law may be exercised by the Secretary 
with respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
    (b) Secretary of the Air Force Authority.--The authority of the 
Secretary of the Air Force with respect to the Air Force or members of 
the Air Force under any covered provision of law may be exercised with 
respect to the Space Force or members of the Space Force.
    (c) Benefits for Members.--A member of the Space Force shall be 
eligible for any benefit under a covered provision of law that is 
available to a member of the Air Force under the same terms and 
conditions as the provision of law applies to members of the Air Force.
    (d) Covered Provision of Law Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered provision of law'' means a provision of law other than a 
provision of title 5, 10, 14, 18, 31, 37, 38, 41, or 51, United States 
Code.

                         PART II--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 941. MATTERS RELATING TO RESERVE COMPONENTS FOR THE SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Limitation on Establishment of Space National Guard.--
            (1) In general.--The Space National Guard may not be 
        established as a reserve component of the Space Force until the 
        Secretary of Defense certifies in writing, to the congressional 
        defense committees that a Space National Guard is the 
        organization best suited to discharge in an effective and 
        efficient manner the missions intended to be assigned to the 
        Space National Guard.
            (2) Basis for certification.--The certification must be 
        based on the results of a study conducted for purposes of this 
        subsection by the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
        Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
            (3) Proposed missions.--The certification shall include a 
        description of each mission proposed to be assigned to the 
        Space National Guard in connection with the certification.
    (b) Space Force Reserve.--
            (1) Inclusion within space force.--Section 9081(b)(2) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, 
        including the Regular Space Force and the Space Force 
        Reserve,'' after ``space forces''.
            (2) Named reserve component.--Section 10101 of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph 
                (8); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following 
                new paragraph (7):
            ``(7) The Space Force Reserve.''.
            (3) Composition.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 1003 of such title is 
                amended--
                            (i) by redesignating section 10114 as 
                        section 10115; and
                            (ii) by inserting after section 10113 the 
                        following new section 10114:
``Sec. 10114. Space Force Reserve: composition
    ``The Space Force Reserve is a reserve component of the Space Force 
to provide a reserve for active duty. It consists of the members of the 
officers' section of the Space Force Reserve and of the enlisted 
section of the Space Force Reserve.''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 1003 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 10114 and 
                inserting the following new items:

``10114. Space Force Reserve: composition.
``10115. Coast Guard Reserve.''.
            (4) Space force reserve command.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 1006 of such title is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 10175. Space Force Reserve Command
    ``(a) Establishment of Command.--The Secretary of the Air Force, 
with the advice and assistance of the Chief of Space Operations, shall 
establish a Space Force Reserve Command. The Space Force Reserve 
Command shall be operated as a separate command of the Space Force.
    ``(b) Commander.--The Chief of Space Force Reserve is the Commander 
of the Space Force Reserve Command. The commander of the Space Force 
Reserve Command reports directly to the Chief of Space Operations.
    ``(c) Assignment of Forces.--The Secretary of the Air Force--
            ``(1) shall assign to the Space Force Reserve Command all 
        forces of the Space Force Reserve stationed in the continental 
        United States other than forces assigned to the unified 
        combatant command for special operations forces established 
        pursuant to section 167 of this title; and
            ``(2) except as otherwise directed by the Secretary of 
        Defense in the case of forces assigned to carry out functions 
        of the Secretary of the Air Force specified in section 9013 of 
        this title, shall assign to the combatant commands all such 
        forces assigned to the Space Force Reserve Command under 
        paragraph (1) in the manner specified by the Secretary of 
        Defense.''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 1006 of such title is amended 
                by adding at the end the following new item:

``10175. Space Force Reserve Command.''.
    (c) Military Personnel Management.--Any authority in title 10, 
United States Code, may be applied to a member of the Space Force 
Reserve in the same manner as such authority is applied to a similarly 
situated member of the Air Force Reserve. In the application of such 
authority to a member of the Space Force Reserve, any reference to a 
grade of a member of in the Air Force or Air Force Reserve shall be 
deemed to refer to the equivalent grade in the Space Force or Space 
Force Reserve.
    (d) Report on Integration of Space Force Reserve Into Law.--Not 
later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House or Representatives a report setting forth 
the amendments to title 10, United States Code, and any other laws, 
necessary to fully integrate the Space Force Reserve into statutory 
authorities on the personnel, activities, missions, and management of 
the Space Force.

SEC. 942. TRANSFERS OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL TO THE SPACE 
              FORCE.

    (a) Prohibition on Involuntary Transfer.--A member of the Armed 
Forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense may not be 
transferred to the military or civilian part of the Space Force, as the 
case may be, without the consent of such member or employee.
    (b) Status Within Space Force Upon Transfer.--Any member of the 
Armed Forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense who is 
transferred to the Space Force shall, after transfer, have the status 
of member or civilian employee, as the case may be, of the Space Force.
    (c) Detail or Assignment of Members.--
            (1) Permanent nature of detail or assignment.--The detail 
        or assignment of any member of the Armed Forces to the Space 
        Force on or after the date of the enactment of this Act shall 
        be permanent, and shall be treated as a transfer to which 
        subsection (b) applies.
            (2) Acknowledgment of nature.--Any member undergoing a 
        detail or assignment described in paragraph (1) shall execute a 
        written acknowledgment, before undergoing such detail or 
        assignment, of the permanent nature of the detail or assignment 
        by reason of paragraph (1).

SEC. 943. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF MILITARY INSTALLATIONS TO THE 
              JURISDICTION OF THE SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Limitation.--A military installation (whether or not under the 
jurisdiction of the Department of the Air Force) may not be transferred 
to the jurisdiction or command of the Space Force until the Secretary 
of the Air Force briefs the congressional defense committees on the 
results of a business case analysis, conducted by the Secretary in 
connection with the transfer, of the cost and efficacy of the transfer.
    (b) Timing of Briefing.--The briefing on a business case analysis 
conducted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be provided not later than 
15 days after the date of the completion of the business case analysis 
by the Secretary.

SEC. 944. CLARIFICATION OF PROCUREMENT OF COMMERCIAL SATELLITE 
              COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 963 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting before section 9532 the following new section:
``Sec. 9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications 
              services
    ``The Secretary of the Air Force shall be responsible for the 
procurement of commercial satellite communications services for the 
Department of Defense.''.
    (b) Table of Sections.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 963 of such title is amended by inserting before the item 
relating to section 9532 the following new item:

``9531. Procurement of commercial satellite communications services.''.

SEC. 945. TEMPORARY EXEMPTION FROM AUTHORIZED DAILY AVERAGE OF MEMBERS 
              IN PAY GRADES E-8 AND E-9.

    Section 517 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to the 
Space Force until October 1, 2023.

SEC. 946. APPLICATION OF ACQUISITION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT TO 
              DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE EMPLOYEES ASSIGNED TO 
              ACQUISITION POSITIONS WITHIN THE SPACE FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1599i. Application of acquisition demonstration project to 
              Department of the Air Force employees assigned to 
              acquisition positions within the Space Force
    ``For purposes of the demonstration project authorized by section 
1762 of this title, the Secretary of Defense may apply the provisions 
of such section, including any regulations, procedures, waivers, or 
guidance implementing such section, to employees of the Department of 
the Air Force assigned to acquisition positions within the Space 
Force.''.
    (b) Table of Sections.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``1599i. Application of acquisition demonstration project to Department 
                            of the Air Force employees assigned to 
                            acquisition positions within the Space 
                            Force.''.

SEC. 947. AIR AND SPACE FORCE MEDAL.

    (a) Supersedure of Airman's Medal With Air and Space Force Medal.--
            (1) In general.--Section 9280 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``Airman's Medal'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Air and Space Force Medal''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``or the 
                Space Force'' after ``the Air Force''.
            (2) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 9280. Air and Space Force Medal: award; limitations''.
            (3) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 937 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 9280 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``9280. Air and Space Force Medal: award; limitations.''.
    (b) Differentiation in Design.--The President shall ensure that the 
design of the Air and Space Force Medal and accompanying ribbon (and 
any related bar or device) awarded under section 9280 of title 10, 
United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), differs in an 
appropriate manner from the design of the Airman's Medal and 
accompanying ribbon, bar, or device awarded under section 9280 of title 
10, United States Code, as such section was in effect on the date 
before the date of the enactment of this Act.

Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

SEC. 951. ANNUAL REPORT ON ESTABLISHMENT OF FIELD OPERATING AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2245 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2246. Establishment of field operating agencies: annual report
    ``(a) Annual Report Required.--Not later than January 31 each year, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on each, if any, field operating agency established 
during the preceding year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include, 
for each field operating agency covered by such report, the following:
            ``(1) The name of such agency.
            ``(2) The physical location of such agency.
            ``(3) The title and grade (whether military or civilian) of 
        the head of such agency.
            ``(4) The chain of command, supervision, or authority 
        through which the head of such agency reports to the Office of 
        the Secretary of Defense or the military department or Armed 
        Forces headquarters, as applicable.
            ``(5) The mission of such agency.
            ``(6) The number of personnel authorized to be assigned to 
        such agency, and the number of such authorizations encumbered 
        by military personnel and civilian employees of the Department 
        of Defense or military department, as applicable.
            ``(7) The purpose underlying the establishment of such 
        agency.
            ``(8) Any cost savings or other efficiencies that have 
        accrued, or are anticipated to accrue, to the Department of 
        Defense or any of its components in connection with the 
        establishment and operation of such agency.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter I of chapter 134 of such title is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 2245 the following new item:

``2246. Establishment of field operating agencies: annual report.''.

SEC. 952. BRIEFING ON ASSIGNMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY TO THE JOINT ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE CENTER 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense, with appropriate representatives of the Armed 
Forces, shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives on the feasibility and the current status 
of assigning members of the Armed Forces on active duty to the Joint 
Artificial Intelligence Center (JAIC) of the Department of Defense. The 
briefing shall include an assessment of such assignment on each of the 
following:
            (1) The strengthening of ties between the Joint Artificial 
        Intelligence Center and operational forces for purposes of--
                    (A) identifying tactical and operational use cases 
                for artificial intelligence (AI);
                    (B) improving data collection; and
                    (C) establishing effective liaison between the 
                Center and operational forces for identification and 
                clarification of concerns in the widespread adoption 
                and dissemination of artificial intelligence.
            (2) The creation of opportunities for additional non-
        traditional broadening assignments for members on active duty.
            (3) The career trajectory of active duty members so 
        assigned, including potential negative effects on career 
        trajectory.
            (4) The improvement and enhancement of the capacity of the 
        Center to influence Department-wide policies that affect the 
        adoption of artificial intelligence.

SEC. 953. THREATS TO UNITED STATES FORCES FROM SMALL UNMANNED AERIAL 
              SYSTEMS WORLDWIDE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) United States military forces face an ever increasing 
        and constantly evolving threat from small unmanned aerial 
        systems in operations worldwide, whether in the United States 
        or abroad.
            (2) The Department of Defense is already doing important 
        work to address the threats from small unmanned aerial systems 
        worldwide, though the need for engagement in that area 
        continues.
    (b) Executive Agent.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army is the executive 
        agent of the Department of Defense for programs, projects, and 
        activities to counter small unmanned aerial systems (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial 
        Systems Program'').
            (2) Functions.--The functions of the Secretary as executive 
        agent shall be as follows:
                    (A) To develop the strategy required by subsection 
                (c).
                    (B) To carry out such other activities to counter 
                threats to United States forces worldwide from small 
                unmanned aerial systems as the Secretary of Defense and 
                the Secretary of the Army consider appropriate.
            (3) Structure.--The Secretary as executive agent shall 
        carry out the functions specified in paragraph (2) through such 
        administrative structures as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Strategy To Counter Threats From Small Unmanned Aerial 
Systems.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Army, as executive agent for the 
Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program, shall develop and submit 
to relevant committees of Congress a strategy for the Armed Forces to 
effectively counter threats from small unmanned aerial systems 
worldwide. The report shall be submitted in classified form.
    (d) Report on Executive Agent Activities.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than one year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army, 
        as executive agent for the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial 
        Systems Program, shall submit to Congress a report on the 
        Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems Program.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of the structure 
                and activities of the executive agent as established 
                and put in place by the Secretary, including the 
                following:
                            (i) Any obstacles hindering the effective 
                        discharge of its functions and activities, 
                        including limitations in authorities or policy.
                            (ii) The changes, if any, to airspace 
                        management, rules of engagement, and training 
                        plans that are required in order to optimize 
                        the use by the Armed Forces of counter-small 
                        unmanned aerial systems.
                    (B) An assessment of the implementation of the 
                strategy required by subsection (c), and a description 
                of any updates to the strategy that are required in 
                light of evolving threats to the Armed Forces from 
                small unmanned aerial systems.
    (e) Report on Threat From Small Unmanned Aerial Systems.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        submittal of the strategy required by subsection (c), the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees 
        of Congress a report that sets forth a direct comparison 
        between the threats United States forces in combat settings 
        face from small unmanned aerial systems and the capabilities of 
        the United States to counter such threats. The report shall be 
        submitted in classified form.
            (2) Coordination.--The Secretary shall prepare the report 
        required by paragraph (1) in coordination with the Director of 
        the Defense Intelligence Agency and with such other appropriate 
        officials of the intelligence community, and such other 
        officials in the United States Government, as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An evaluation and assessment of the current and 
                evolving threat being faced by United States forces 
                from small unmanned aerial systems.
                    (B) A description of the counter-small unmanned 
                aerial system systems acquired by the Department of 
                Defense as of the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                and an assessment whether such systems are adequate to 
                meet the current and evolving threat described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                of Representatives.
    (f) Independent Assessment of Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems 
Program.--
            (1) Assessment.--Not later than 60 days after the submittal 
        of the strategy required by subsection (c), the Secretary of 
        Defense shall seek to enter into a contract with a Federally 
        funded research and development center to conduct an assessment 
        of the efficacy of the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems 
        Program.
            (2) Elements.--The assessment conducted pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) An identification of metrics to assess progress 
                in the implementation of the strategy required by 
                subsection (c), which metrics shall take into account 
                the threat assessment required for purposes of 
                subsection (e).
                    (B) An assessment of progress, and key challenges, 
                in the implementation of the strategy using such 
                metrics, and recommendations for improvements in the 
                implementation of the strategy.
                    (C) An assessment of the extent to which the 
                Department of Defense is coordinating adequately with 
                other departments and agencies of the United States 
                Government, and other appropriate entities, in the 
                development and procurement of counter-small unmanned 
                aerial systems for the Department.
                    (D) An assessment of the extent to which the 
                designation of the Secretary of the Army as executive 
                agent for the Counter-Small Unmanned Aerial Systems 
                Program has reduced redundancies and increased 
                efficiencies in procurement of counter-small unmanned 
                aerial systems.
                    (E) An assessment whether United States 
                technological progress on counter-small unmanned aerial 
                systems is sufficient to maintain a competitive edge 
                over the small unmanned aerial systems technology 
                available to United States adversaries.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after entry into the 
        contract referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
        forth the results of the assessment required under the 
        contract.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this division for 
        fiscal year 2021 between any such authorizations for that 
        fiscal year (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of 
        authorizations so transferred shall be merged with and be 
        available for the same purposes as the authorization to which 
        transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        total amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer 
        under the authority of this section may not exceed 
        $4,000,000,000.
            (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
        authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
        authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
        dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
            (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that 
        have a higher priority than the items from which authority is 
        transferred; and
            (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that 
        has been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).

SEC. 1002. APPLICATION OF FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENT AND AUDIT REMEDIATION 
              PLAN TO FISCAL YEARS FOLLOWING FISCAL YEAR 2020.

    Section 240b(a)(2)(A)(iii) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``for fiscal year 2018'' and all that follows and 
inserting ``for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2020 occurs by not 
later than March 31 following such fiscal year;''.

SEC. 1003. INCENTIVES FOR THE ACHIEVEMENT BY THE COMPONENTS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF UNQUALIFIED AUDIT OPINIONS ON 
              THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

    (a) Incentives Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) 
shall, acting through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer of the 
Department of Defense, develop and issue guidance to incentivize the 
achievement by each department, agency, and other component of the 
Department of Defense of unqualified audit opinions on their financial 
statements.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report setting forth a description and 
assessment of current and proposed incentives for the achievement of 
unqualified audit opinions as described in subsection (a).
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on the 
        Budget, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on the 
        Budget, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

SEC. 1011. CODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT TASK FORCES OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO SUPPORT LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES 
              CONDUCTING COUNTERTERRORISM OR COUNTER-TRANSNATIONAL 
              ORGANIZED CRIME ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Codification of Section 1022 of FY 2004 NDAA.--Chapter 15 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end a new 
section 285 consisting of--
            (1) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 285. Authority for joint task forces to support law enforcement 
              agencies conducting counterterrorism or counter-
              transnational organized crime activities''; and
            (2) a text consisting of the text of section 1022 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (10 
        U.S.C. 271 note).
    (b) Conforming Amendments in Connection With Codification.--Section 
285 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``During fiscal years 
        2006 through 2022, funds for drug interdiction'' and inserting 
        ``Funds for drug interdiction'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``of each year in which 
        the authority in subsection (a) is in effect'' and inserting 
        ``each year'';
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking the paragraph 
                designation and all that follows through ``Support'' in 
                paragraph (2)(A) and inserting ``(1) Support'';
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as paragraph 
                (2); and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
                (1)''; and
            (4) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``of title 10, 
                United States Code'' and inserting ``of this title''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking the second paragraph (2).
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 15 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``285. Authority for joint task forces to support law enforcement 
                            agencies conducting counterterrorism or 
                            counter-transnational organized crime 
                            activities.''.
    (d) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1022 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 is repealed.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1021. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE USED VESSELS WITH 
              FUNDS IN THE NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.

    Section 2218(f)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (G); and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (E).

SEC. 1022. WAIVER DURING WAR OR THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY OF 
              RESTRICTIONS ON OVERHAUL, REPAIR, OR MAINTENANCE OF 
              VESSELS IN FOREIGN SHIPYARDS.

    Section 8680 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection: (c)
    ``(c) Waiver.--(1) The Secretary of the Navy may waive the 
restrictions in subsections (a) and (b) for the duration of a period of 
threat to the national security interests of the United States upon a 
written determination by the Secretary that such a waiver is necessary 
in the national security interest of the United States.
    ``(2) Not later than 15 days after making a determination under 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees a written notification on the determination.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `period of threat to the 
national security interests of the United States' means the following:
            ``(A) A period of war.
            ``(B) Any other period determined by Secretary of Defense 
        in which the national security interests of the United States 
        are threatened by the application, or the imminent danger of 
        application, of physical force by any foreign government or 
        agency against the United States, citizens of the United 
        States, the property of citizens of the United States, or the 
        commercial interests of citizens of the United States.''.

SEC. 1023. MODIFICATION OF WAIVER AUTHORITY ON PROHIBITION ON USE OF 
              FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF CERTAIN LEGACY MARITIME MINE 
              COUNTERMEASURE PLATFORMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1046(b)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1556) is amended by striking ``certifies'' and inserting ``, with the 
concurrence of the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, 
certifies in writing''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to waivers under subsection (b)(1) of section 1046 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 of the 
prohibition under subsection (a) of that section that occur on or after 
that date.

SEC. 1024. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR 
              CERTAIN NAVY MESS OPERATIONS AFLOAT.

    Section 1014(b) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4585), as most 
recently amended by section 1023(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
966), is further amended by striking ``September 30, 2020'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 1025. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ACTIONS NECESSARY TO ACHIEVE A 355-SHIP 
              NAVY.

     It is the sense of Congress that to achieve the national policy of 
the United States to have available, as soon as practicable, not fewer 
than 355 battle force ships--
            (1) the Navy must be adequately resourced to increase the 
        size of the Navy in accordance with the national policy, which 
        includes the associated ships, aircraft, personnel, 
        sustainment, and munitions;
            (2) across fiscal years 2021 through 2025, the Navy should 
        start construction on not fewer than--
                    (A) 12 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers;
                    (B) 10 Virginia-class submarines;
                    (C) 2 Columbia-class submarines;
                    (D) 3 San Antonio-class amphibious ships;
                    (E) 1 LHA-class amphibious ship;
                    (F) 6 John Lewis-class fleet oilers; and
                    (G) 5 guided missile frigates;
            (3) new guided missile frigate construction should increase 
        to a rate of between two and four ships per year once design 
        maturity and construction readiness permit;
            (4) the Columbia-class submarine program should be funded 
        with additions to the Navy budget significantly above the 
        historical average, given the critical single national mission 
        that these vessels will perform and the high priority of the 
        shipbuilding budget for implementing the National Defense 
        Strategy;
            (5) stable shipbuilding rates of construction should be 
        maintained for each vessel class, utilizing multi-year or block 
        buy contract authorities when appropriate, until a deliberate 
        transition plan is identified; and
            (6) prototyping of potential new shipboard subsystems 
        should be accelerated to build knowledge systematically, and, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, shipbuilding prototyping 
        should occur at the subsystem-level in advance of ship design.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1031. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES.

    Section 1033 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1953), as 
amended by section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by striking 
``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1032. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CLOSE OR 
              RELINQUISH CONTROL OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
              GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1036 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1551), as most recently amended 
by section 1045 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by striking ``fiscal 
year 2018, 2019, or 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal years 2018 through 
2021''.

SEC. 1033. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR 
              RELEASE OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
              STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    Section 1035 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1954), as 
amended by section 1042 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by striking 
``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1034. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR 
              MODIFY FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES 
              TRANSFERRED FROM UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO 
              BAY, CUBA.

    Section 1034(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
1954), as amended by section 1044 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1041. INCLUSION OF DISASTER-RELATED EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS 
              ACTIVITIES AMONG LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES AUTHORITIES 
              FOR SALE OR DONATION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Inclusion.--Subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 2576a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``disaster-related 
emergency preparedness,'' after ``counterterrorism,''.
    (b) Preference in Transfers.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Preference for Certain Transfers.--In considering 
applications for the transfer of personal property under this section, 
the Secretary shall give a preference to applications indicating that 
the transferred property will be used in the counterdrug, 
counterterrorism, disaster-related emergency preparedness, or border 
security activities of the recipient agency. Applications that request 
vehicles used for disaster-related emergency preparedness, such as 
high-water rescue vehicles, should receive the highest preference.''.

SEC. 1042. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CLANDESTINE 
              ACTIVITIES THAT SUPPORT OPERATIONAL PREPARATION OF THE 
              ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) Authority.--Subject to subsections (b) through (d), the 
Secretary of Defense may expend up to $15,000,000 in any fiscal year 
for clandestine activities for any purpose the Secretary determines to 
be proper for preparation of the environment for operations of a 
confidential nature. Such a determination is final and conclusive upon 
the accounting officers of the United States. The Secretary may certify 
the amount of any such expenditure authorized by the Secretary that the 
Secretary considers advisable not to specify, and the Secretary's 
certificate is sufficient voucher for the expenditure of that amount.
    (b) Funds.--Funds for expenditures under this section in a fiscal 
year shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
that fiscal year for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide.
    (c) Limitation on Delegation.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
delegate the authority under this section with respect to any 
expenditure in excess of $100,000.
    (d) Exclusion of Intelligence Activities.--
            (1) In general.--This section does not constitute authority 
        to conduct, or expend funds for, intelligence, 
        counterintelligence, or intelligence-related activities.
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms 
        ``intelligence'' and ``counterintelligence'' have the meaning 
        given those terms in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than December 31 each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on expenditures made under this section during the 
fiscal year preceding the year in which the report is submitted. Each 
report shall include, for each expenditure under this section during 
the fiscal year covered by such report--
            (1) the amount and date of such expenditure;
            (2) a detailed description of the purpose for which such 
        expenditure was made;
            (3) an explanation why other authorities available to the 
        Department of Defense could not be used for such expenditure; 
        and
            (4) any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 1043. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF MILITARY COMMISSIONS UNDER 
              CHAPTER 47A OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE, TO PUNISH 
              CONTEMPT.

    (a) Clarification.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 47A of title 10, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 949o-1. Contempt
    ``(a) Authority to Punish.--(1) With respect to any proceeding 
under this chapter, a judicial officer specified in paragraph (2) may 
punish for contempt any person who--
            ``(A) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the 
        presence of the judicial officer during the proceeding;
            ``(B) disturbs the proceeding by any riot or disorder; or
            ``(C) willfully disobeys a lawful writ, process, order, 
        rule, decree, or command issued with respect to the proceeding.
    ``(2) A judicial officer referred to in paragraph (1) is any of the 
following:
            ``(A) Any judge of the United States Court of Military 
        Commission Review.
            ``(B) Any military judge detailed to a military commission 
        or any other proceeding under this chapter.
    ``(b) Punishment.--The punishment for contempt under subsection (a) 
may not exceed confinement for 30 days, a fine of $1,000, or both.
    ``(c) Review.--(1) A punishment under this section--
            ``(A) is not reviewable by the convening authority of a 
        military commission under this chapter;
            ``(B) if imposed by a military judge, shall constitute a 
        judgment, subject to review in the first instance only by the 
        United States Court of Military Commission Review and then only 
        by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
        Columbia Circuit; and
            ``(C) if imposed by a judge of the United States Court of 
        Military Commission Review, shall constitute a judgment of the 
        court subject to review only by the United States Court of 
        Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
    ``(2) In reviewing a punishment for contempt imposed under this 
section, the reviewing court shall affirm such punishment unless the 
court finds that imposing such punishment was an abuse of the 
discretion of the judicial officer who imposed such punishment.
    ``(3) A petition for review of punishment for contempt imposed 
under this section shall be filed not later than 60 days after the date 
on which the authenticated record upon which the contempt punishment is 
based and any contempt proceedings conducted by the judicial officer 
are served on the person punished for contempt.
    ``(d) Punishment Not Conviction.--Punishment for contempt is not a 
conviction or sentence within the meaning of section 949m of this 
title. The imposition of punishment for contempt is not governed by 
other provisions of this chapter applicable to military commissions, 
except that the Secretary of Defense may prescribe procedures for 
contempt proceedings and punishments, pursuant to the authority 
provided in section 949a of this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter IV of such chapter is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new item:

``949o-1. Contempt.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 950t of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (31); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (32) as paragraph (31).
    (c) Rule of Construction.--The amendments made by subsections (a) 
and (b) shall not be construed to affect the lawfulness of any 
punishment for contempt adjudged prior to the effective date of such 
amendments.
    (d) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall 
apply with respect to conduct by a person that occurs on or after such 
date.

SEC. 1044. PROHIBITION ON ACTIONS TO INFRINGE UPON FIRST AMENDMENT 
              RIGHTS OF PEACEABLE ASSEMBLY AND PETITION FOR REDRESS OF 
              GRIEVANCES.

    Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act shall not be used 
for any program, project, or activity, or any use of personnel, to 
conduct actions against United States citizens that infringe upon their 
rights under the First Amendment to the Constitution peaceably to 
assemble and/or to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

SEC. 1045. ARCTIC PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Arctic Planning and Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman 
        of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall begin planning and 
        implementing such changes as may be necessary for requirements, 
        training, equipment, doctrine, and capability development of 
        the Armed Forces should an expanded role of the Armed Forces in 
        the Arctic be determined by the Secretary to be in the national 
        security interests of the United States.
            (2) Training.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall direct the Armed Forces to carry out training in the 
        Arctic or training relevant to carrying out military operations 
        in the Arctic.
    (b) Arctic Research and Development Program.--
            (1) In general.--If pursuant to subsection (a), the 
        Secretary of Defense determines that an expanded role for the 
        Armed Forces is in the national security interests of the 
        United States, the Secretary shall establish a research and 
        development program on the current and future requirements and 
        needs of the Armed Forces for operations in the Arctic.
            (2) Elements.--The program required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Development of materiel solutions for operating 
                in extreme weather environments of the Arctic, 
                including equipment for individual members of the Armed 
                Forces, ground vehicles, and communications systems.
                    (B) Development of a plan for fielding future 
                weapons platforms able to operate in Arctic conditions 
                for surface combatants, submarines, aviation platforms, 
                assault craft unit connectors, auxiliaries, littoral 
                craft, unmanned aerial vehicles, and any other systems 
                that may be needed in the Arctic.
                    (C) Development of capabilities to monitor, assess, 
                and predict environmental and weather conditions in the 
                Arctic and their effect on military operations.
                    (D) Determining requirements for logistics and 
                sustainment of the Armed Forces operating in the 
                Arctic.

SEC. 1046. CONSIDERATION OF SECURITY RISKS IN CERTAIN 
              TELECOMMUNICATIONS ARCHITECTURE FOR FUTURE OVERSEAS 
              BASING DECISIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    The Secretary of Defense shall take into account the security risks 
of 5G and 6G telecommunications network architecture, including the use 
of telecommunications equipment provided by at-risk vendors such as 
Huawei Technologies Company, Ltd., and the Zhongxing Telecommunications 
Equipment Corporation (ZTE), in all future overseas stationing 
decisions of the Department of Defense, including--
            (1) security risks from threats to operational and 
        information security of United States military personnel and 
        equipment; and
            (2) the sufficiency of potential mitigation by the 
        Department and the host nation concerned of such security 
        risks, including through cost-sharing agreements related to 
        such mitigation.

SEC. 1047. FOREIGN MILITARY TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Secure United 
States Bases Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate defense committees.--The term ``appropriate 
        defense committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Covered individuals.--The term ``covered individuals'' 
        means any foreign national (except foreign nationals of 
        Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom who have 
        been granted a security clearance that is reciprocally accepted 
        by the United States for access to classified information) 
        who--
                    (A) is seeking physical access to a Department of 
                Defense installation or facility within the United 
                States; and
                    (B)(i) is selected, nominated, or accepted for 
                training or education for a period of more than 30 days 
                occurring on a Department of Defense installation or 
                facility within the United States; or
                    (ii) is an immediate family member accompanying any 
                foreign national who has been selected, nominated, or 
                accepted for such training or education.
            (3) Immediate family member.--The term ``immediate family 
        member'' means--
                    (A) spouse;
                    (B) parents and stepparents;
                    (C) siblings, stepsiblings, and half-siblings; and
                    (D) children and stepchildren.
            (4) United states.--The term ``United States'' means the 
        several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
        Puerto Rico, and Guam.
    (c) Establishment of Vetting Procedures; Monitoring Requirements 
for Certain Military Training.--
            (1) Establishment of vetting procedures.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense shall establish procedures to vet covered 
                individuals for eligibility for physical access to 
                Department of Defense installations and facilities 
                within the United States, including--
                            (i) biographic and biometric screening of 
                        covered individuals;
                            (ii) continuous review of whether covered 
                        individuals should continue to be authorized 
                        such physical access;
                            (iii) biographic checks of the covered 
                        individual's immediate family members; and
                            (iv) any other measures that the Secretary 
                        of Defense determines appropriate for vetting.
                    (B) Information required.--The Secretary of Defense 
                shall identify the information required to conduct the 
                vetting.
                    (C) Collection of information.--The Secretary of 
                Defense shall--
                            (i) collect information to vet individuals 
                        under the procedures established under this 
                        subsection; and
                            (ii) as required for the effective 
                        implementation of this section, shall seek to 
                        enter into agreements with the relevant Federal 
                        departments and agencies to facilitate the 
                        sharing of information in the possession of 
                        such departments and agencies concerning the 
                        covered individuals.
            (2) Determination authority.--
                    (A) Review.--The results of vetting--
                            (i) will be reviewed within the Department 
                        of Defense by an organization with an assigned 
                        security and counterintelligence mission; and
                            (ii) will be the basis for that 
                        organization's recommendation regarding whether 
                        physical access should be authorized by the 
                        appropriate authority.
                    (B) Effect of denial.--If the organization 
                recommends that a covered individual not be authorized 
                physical access to Department of Defense installations 
                and facilities within the United States, such physical 
                access may only be authorized for such covered 
                individual by the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy 
                Secretary of Defense.
                    (C) Notification.--The Secretary of State shall be 
                notified of any covered individuals who are not 
                authorized physical access based on the results of the 
                vetting under this subsection.
            (3) Additional security measures.--Beginning on the date 
        that is 181 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary of Defense shall--
                    (A) ensure that all Department of Defense Common 
                Access Cards issued to foreign nationals in the United 
                States--
                            (i) comply with the credentialing standards 
                        issued by the Office of Personnel Management; 
                        and
                            (ii) include a visual indicator, as 
                        required by the standard developed by the 
                        National Institute of Standards and Technology;
                    (B) ensure that physical access by covered 
                individuals is limited, as appropriate, to Department 
                of Defense installations or facilities within the 
                United States that are directly associated with their 
                training or education or necessary to access authorized 
                benefits;
                    (C) establish a policy regarding the possession of 
                firearms on Department of Defense property by covered 
                individuals; and
                    (D) ensure that covered individuals who have been 
                granted physical access are incorporated into the 
                Department of Defense Insider Threat Program.
            (4) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify 
        the appropriate congressional committees of the establishment 
        of the procedures required under paragraph (1).
    (d) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a 
        briefing to the appropriate congressional committees regarding 
        the establishment of any Department of Defense policy or 
        guidance related to the implementation of this section.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a 
        report to the appropriate congressional committees regarding 
        the impact and effects of this section, including--
                    (A) any positive or negative impacts on the 
                training of foreign military students;
                    (B) the effectiveness of the vetting procedures 
                implemented in preventing harm to United States 
                military personnel or communities;
                    (C) how any of the negative impacts have been 
                mitigated; and
                    (D) a proposed plan to mitigate any ongoing 
                negative impacts to the vetting and training of foreign 
                military students by the Department of Defense.

SEC. 1048. REPORTING OF ADVERSE EVENTS RELATING TO CONSUMER PRODUCTS ON 
              MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that any 
adverse event related to a consumer product that occurs on a military 
installation is reported on the internet website saferproducts.gov.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Adverse event.--The term ``adverse event'' means--
                    (A) any event that indicates that a consumer 
                product--
                            (i) fails to comply with an applicable 
                        consumer product safety rule or with a 
                        voluntary consumer product safety standard upon 
                        which the Consumer Product Safety Commission 
                        has relied under section 9 of the Consumer 
                        Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2058);
                            (ii) fails to comply with any other rule, 
                        regulation, standard, or ban under that Act or 
                        any other Act enforced by the Commission;
                            (iii) contains a defect which could create 
                        a substantial product hazard described in 
                        section 15(a)(2) of the Consumer Product Safety 
                        Act (15 U.S.C. 2064(a)(2)); or
                            (iv) creates an unreasonable risk of 
                        serious injury or death; or
                    (B) any other harm described in subsection 
                (b)(1)(A) of section 6A of the Consumer Product Safety 
                Act (15 U.S.C. 2055a) and required to be reported in 
                the database established under subsection (a) of that 
                section.
            (2) Consumer product.--The term ``consumer product'' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 3 of the Consumer 
        Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052).

SEC. 1049. INCLUSION OF UNITED STATES NAVAL SEA CADET CORPS AMONG YOUTH 
              AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE 
              ASSISTANCE FROM THE NATIONAL GUARD.

    Section 508(d) of title 32, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (15); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new 
        paragraph (14):
            ``(14) The United States Naval Sea Cadet Corps.''.

SEC. 1050. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY FOR THE REGULATION OF DANGEROUS 
              DOGS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, through the Veterinary 
Service Activity of the Department of Defense, shall establish a 
standardized policy applicable across all military communities for the 
regulation of dangerous dogs that is--
            (1) breed-neutral; and
            (2) consistent with advice from professional veterinary and 
        animal behavior experts in regard to effective regulation of 
        dangerous dogs.
    (b) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe 
        regulations implementing the policy established under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Best practices.--The regulations prescribed under 
        paragraph (1) shall include strategies, for implementation 
        within all military communities, for the prevention of dog 
        bites that are consistent with the following best practices:
                    (A) Enforcement of comprehensive, non-breed-
                specific regulations relating to dangerous dogs, with 
                emphasis on identification of dangerous dog behavior 
                and chronically irresponsible owners.
                    (B) Enforcement of animal control regulations, such 
                as leash laws and stray animal control policies.
                    (C) Promotion and communication of resources for 
                pet spaying and neutering.
                    (D) Investment in community education initiatives, 
                such as teaching criteria for pet selection, pet care 
                best practices, owner responsibilities, and safe and 
                appropriate interaction with dogs.
    (c) Military Communities Defined.--In this section, the term 
``military communities'' means--
            (1) all installations of the Department; and
            (2) all military housing, including privatized military 
        housing under subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
        States Code.

SEC. 1051. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE BASING OF KC-46A AIRCRAFT OUTSIDE 
              THE CONTIGUOUS UNITED STATES.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of the Air Force, as 
part of the strategic basing process for KC-46A aircraft at 
installations outside the contiguous United States (OCONUS), should--
            (1) consider the benefits derived from basing such aircraft 
        at locations that--
                    (A) support day-to-day air refueling operations, 
                operations plans of multiple combatant commands, and 
                flexibility for contingency operations;
                    (B) have--
                            (i) a strategic location that is essential 
                        to the defense of the United States and its 
                        interests;
                            (ii) receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue 
                        combat training opportunities with joint and 
                        international partners; and
                            (iii) sufficient airfield and airspace 
                        availability and capacity to meet requirements;
                    (C) possess facilities that take full advantage of 
                existing infrastructure to provide--
                            (i) runway, hangars, and aircrew and 
                        maintenance operations; and
                            (ii) sufficient fuel receipt, storage, and 
                        distribution for 5-day peacetime operating 
                        stock; and
                    (D) minimize overall construction and operational 
                costs;
            (2) prioritize United States responsiveness and flexibility 
        to continued long-term great power competition and other major 
        threats, as outlined in the 2017 National Security Strategy and 
        the 2018 National Defense Strategy; and
            (3) take into account the advancement of adversary weapons 
        systems, with respect to both capacity and range.

SEC. 1052. EFFICIENT USE OF SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION 
              FACILITIES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, shall issue revised guidance authorizing and 
directing Government agencies and their appropriately cleared 
contractors to process, store, use, and discuss sensitive compartmented 
information (SCI) at facilities previously approved to handle such 
information, without need for further approval by agency or by site. 
Such guidance shall apply to controlled access programs of the 
intelligence community and to special access programs of the Department 
of Defense.

SEC. 1053. ASSISTANCE FOR FARMER AND RANCHER STRESS AND MENTAL HEALTH 
              OF INDIVIDUALS IN RURAL AREAS.

    (a) Definition of Secretary.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) according to the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention, the suicide rate is 45 percent greater in rural 
        areas of the United States than the suicide rate in urban areas 
        of the United States;
            (2) farmers face social isolation, the potential for 
        financial losses, barriers to seeking mental health services, 
        and access to lethal means to commit suicide; and
            (3) as commodity prices fall and farmers face uncertainty, 
        reports of farmer suicides are increasing.
    (c) Public Service Announcement Campaign to Address Farm and Ranch 
Mental Health.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall carry out a 
        public service announcement campaign to address the mental 
        health of farmers and ranchers.
            (2) Requirements.--The public service announcement campaign 
        under paragraph (1) shall include television, radio, print, 
        outdoor, and digital public service announcements.
            (3) Contractor.--The Secretary may enter into a contract or 
        other agreement with a third party to carry out the public 
        service announcement campaign under paragraph (1).
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this 
        subsection $3,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    (d) Employee Training Program to Manage Farmer and Rancher 
Stress.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle A of the Department of 
        Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6912 et seq.) 
        is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 224B. EMPLOYEE TRAINING PROGRAM TO MANAGE FARMER AND RANCHER 
              STRESS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a voluntary 
program to train employees of the Farm Service Agency, the Risk 
Management Agency, and the Natural Resources Conservation Service in 
the management of stress experienced by farmers and ranchers, including 
the detection of stress and suicide prevention.
    ``(b) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which 
the Secretary submits a report on the results of the pilot program 
being carried out by the Secretary as of the date of enactment of this 
section to train employees of the Department in the management of 
stress experienced by farmers and ranchers, and based on the 
recommendations contained in that report, the Secretary shall develop a 
training program to carry out subsection (a).
    ``(c) Report.--Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry of the Senate a report describing the implementation of this 
section.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Subtitle A of the Department of Agriculture 
                Reorganization Act of 1994 is amended by redesignating 
                section 225 (7 U.S.C. 6925) as section 224A.
                    (B) Section 296(b) of the Department of Agriculture 
                Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7014(b)) is 
                amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) The authority of the Secretary to carry out section 
        224B.''.
    (e) Task Force for Assessment of Causes of Mental Stress and Best 
Practices for Response.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall convene a task force 
        of agricultural and rural stakeholders at the national, State, 
        and local levels--
                    (A) to assess the causes of mental stress in 
                farmers and ranchers; and
                    (B) to identify best practices for responding to 
                that mental stress.
            (2) Submission of report.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the task force convened under 
        paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary a report containing 
        the assessment and best practices under subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B), respectively, of that paragraph.
            (3) Collaboration.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
        task force convened under paragraph (1) shall collaborate with 
        nongovernmental organizations and State and local agencies.

SEC. 1054. ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROPERTY FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Additional Training of Recipient Agency Personnel Required.--
Subsection (b)(6) of section 2576a of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
including respect for the rights of citizens under the Constitution of 
the United States and de-escalation of force''.
    (b) Certain Property Not Transferrable.--Such section is further 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(d) Property Not Transferrable.--The Secretary may not transfer 
to a Tribal, State, or local law enforcement agency under this section 
the following:
            ``(1) Bayonets.
            ``(2) Grenades (other than stun and flash-bang grenades).
            ``(3) Weaponized tracked combat vehicles.
            ``(4) Weaponized drones.''.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1061. REPORT ON POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS TO CERTAIN MILITARY 
              EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report setting forth the results of a review and assessment, 
        obtained by the Secretary for purposes of the report, of the 
        potential effects on the military education provided by the 
        educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified 
        in subsection (b) of the actions described in subsection (c).
            (2) Conducting organization.--The review and assessment 
        required for purposes of the report shall be performed by an 
        organization selected by the Secretary from among organizations 
        independent of the Department that have expertise in the 
        analysis of matters in connection with higher education.
    (b) Educational Institutions of the Department of Defense.--The 
educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) The senior level service schools and intermediate level 
        service schools (as such terms are defined in section 2151(b) 
        of title 10, United States Code).
            (2) The Air Force Institute of Technology.
            (3) The National Defense University.
            (4) The Joint Special Operations University.
            (5) The Army Armament Graduate School.
            (6) Any other military educational institution of the 
        Department specified by the Secretary for purposes of this 
        section.
    (c) Actions.--The actions described in this subsection with respect 
to the educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified 
in subsection (b) are the following:
            (1) Modification of admission and graduation requirements.
            (2) Expansion of use of case studies in curricula for 
        professional military education.
            (3) Reduction or expansion of degree-granting authority.
            (4) Reduction or expansion of the acceptance of research 
        grants.
            (5) Reduction of the number of attending students 
        generally.
            (6) Modification of military personnel career milestones in 
        order to prioritize instructor positions.
            (7) Increase in educational and performance requirements 
        for military personnel selected to be instructors.
            (8) Expansion of ``visiting'' or ``adjunct'' faculty.
            (9) Modification of civilian faculty management practices, 
        including employment practices.
            (10) Reduction of the number of attending students through 
        the sponsoring of education of an increased number of students 
        at non-Department of Defense institutions of higher education.
            (11) Modification of enlisted personnel management and 
        career milestones to increase attendance at non-Department of 
        Defense institutions of higher education
    (d) Additional Elements.--In addition to the matters described in 
subsection (a), the review and report under this section shall also 
include the following:
            (1) A comparison of admission standards and graduation 
        requirements of the educational institutions of the Department 
        of Defense specified in subsection (b) with admission standards 
        and graduation requirements of public and private institutions 
        of higher education that are comparable to the educational 
        institutions of the Department of Defense.
            (2) A comparison of the goals and missions of the 
        educational institutions of the Department of Defense specified 
        in subsection (b) with the goals and missions of such public 
        and private institutions of higher education.
            (3) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate 
        for purposes of this section.
    (e) JCS Evaluation of Review and Assessment.--Not later than 90 
days after the date on which the report required by subsection (a) is 
submitted to Congress, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall, 
in consultation with the other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report setting forth any evaluation by the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff of the review and assessment covered by the report 
under subsection (a).

SEC. 1062. REPORTS ON STATUS AND MODERNIZATION OF THE NORTH WARNING 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Report on Status.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
        status of the North Warning System.
            (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of the status and 
                operational integrity of the infrastructure of the 
                North Warning System.
                    (B) An assessment of the technology currently used 
                by the North Warning System compared with the 
                technology considered necessary by the Commander of the 
                North American Aerospace Defense Command to detect 
                current and anticipated threats.
                    (C) An assessment of the infrastructure and ability 
                of the Alaska Radar System to integrate into the 
                broader North Warning System.
                    (D) An assessment of the ability of the North 
                Warning System to integrate with current and 
                anticipated space-based sensor platforms.
    (b) Report on Plan for Modernization.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report setting forth a plan 
        for the modernization of the capabilities provided by the 
        current North Warning System.
            (2) Elements.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) A detailed timeline for the modernization of 
                the North Warning System based on the status of the 
                system as reported pursuant to subsection (a).
                    (B) The technological advancements necessary for 
                ground-based North Warning System sites to address 
                current and anticipated threats (as specified by the 
                Commander of the North American Aerospace Defense 
                Command).
                    (C) An assessment of the number of future North 
                Warning System sites required in order to address 
                current and anticipated threats (as so specified).
                    (D) Any new or complementary technologies required 
                to accomplish the mission of the North Warning System.
                    (E) The cost and schedule, by year, of the plan.

SEC. 1063. STUDIES ON THE FORCE STRUCTURE FOR MARINE CORPS AVIATION.

    (a) Studies Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for 
performance of three studies on the force structure for Marine Corps 
aviation through 2030.
    (b) Responsibility for Studies.--One of the three studies performed 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall be performed by each of the following:
            (1) The Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the 
        Commandant of the Marine Corps.
            (2) An appropriate Federally funded research and 
        development center (FFRDC), as selected by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section.
            (3) An appropriate organization described in section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which is exempt 
        from taxation under section 501(a) of such code, as selected by 
        the Secretary for purposes of this section.
    (c) Performance.--
            (1) Independent performance.--Each study performed pursuant 
        to subsection (a) shall be performed independently of each 
        other such study,
            (2) Matters to be considered.--In performing a study 
        pursuant to subsection, the officer or entity performing the 
        study take into account, within the context of the current 
        force structure for Marine Corps aviation, the following:
                    (A) The 2018 National Defense Strategy and the 2018 
                National Military Strategy.
                    (B) The Marine Corps Force Design 2030.
                    (C) Potential roles and missions for Marine Corps 
                aviation given new operating concepts for the Marine 
                Corps.
                    (D) The potential for increased requirements for 
                survivable and dispersed strike aircraft.
                    (E) The potential for increased requirements for 
                tactical or intratheater lift, amphibious lift, or 
                surface connectors.
    (d) Study Results.--The results of each study performed pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) The various force structures for Marine Corps aviation 
        through 2030 considered under such study, together with the 
        assumptions and possible scenarios identified for each such 
        force structure.
            (2) A recommendation for the force structure for Marine 
        Corps aviation through 2030, including the following in 
        connection with such force structure:
                    (A) Numbers and type of aviation assets, numbers 
                and types of associated unmanned assets, and basic 
                capabilities of each such asset.
                    (B) A description and assessment of the deviation 
                of such force structure from the most recent Marine 
                Corps Aviation Plan.
                    (C) Any other information required for assessment 
                of such force structure, including supporting analysis.
            (3) A presentation and discussion of minority views among 
        participants in such study.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report setting forth the results of each study 
        performed pursuant to subsection (a).
            (2) Form.--The report under this subsection shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 1064. STUDY ON UNEMPLOYMENT RATE OF FEMALE VETERANS WHO SERVED ON 
              ACTIVE DUTY IN THE ARMED FORCES AFTER SEPTEMBER 11, 2001.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
        in consultation with the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
        Department of Labor, shall conduct a study on why Post-9/11 
        Veterans who are female are at higher risk of unemployment than 
        all other groups of female veterans and their non-veteran 
        counterparts.
            (2) Conduct of study.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct the 
                study under paragraph (1) primarily through the Center 
                for Women Veterans under section 318 of title 38, 
                United States Code.
                    (B) Consultation.--In carrying out the study 
                conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
                consult with--
                            (i) other Federal agencies, such as the 
                        Department of Defense, the Office of Personnel 
                        Management, and the Small Business 
                        Administration;
                            (ii) foundations; and
                            (iii) entities in the private sector.
            (3) Elements of study.--The study conducted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include, with respect to Post-9/11 Veterans who are 
        female, at a minimum, an analysis of the following:
                    (A) Rank at time of separation from the Armed 
                Forces.
                    (B) Geographic location upon such separation.
                    (C) Educational level upon such separation.
                    (D) The percentage of such veterans who enrolled in 
                an education or employment training program of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of 
                Labor after such separation.
                    (E) Industries that have employed such veterans.
                    (F) Military occupational specialties available to 
                such veterans.
                    (G) Barriers to employment of such veterans.
                    (H) Causes to fluctuations in employment of such 
                veterans.
                    (I) Current employment training programs of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of 
                Labor that are available to such veterans.
                    (J) Economic indicators that impact unemployment of 
                such veterans.
                    (K) Health conditions of such veterans that could 
                impact employment.
                    (L) Whether there are differences in the analyses 
                conducted under subparagraphs (A) through (K) based on 
                the race of such veteran.
                    (M) The difference between unemployment rates of 
                Post-9/11 Veterans who are female compared to 
                unemployment rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who are male, 
                including an analysis of potential causes of such 
                difference.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after completing 
        the study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report on such study.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The analyses conducted under subsection (a)(3).
                    (B) A description of the methods used to conduct 
                the study under subsection (a).
                    (C) Such other matters relating to the unemployment 
                rates of Post-9/11 Veterans who are female as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Post-9/11 Veteran Defined.--In this section, the term ``Post-9/
11 Veteran'' means a veteran who served on active duty in the Armed 
Forces on or after September 11, 2001.

SEC. 1065. REPORT ON GREAT LAKES AND INLAND WATERWAYS SEAPORTS.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall submit a report to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives containing 
        the results of the review and an explanation of the methodology 
        used for the review conducted pursuant to subsection (b) 
        regarding the screening practices for foreign cargo arriving at 
        seaports on the Great Lakes and inland waterways.
            (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, to the maximum extent possible, 
        but may include a classified annex, if necessary.
    (b) Scope of Review.--
            (1) Seaport selection.--In selecting seaports on inland 
        waterways to include in the review under this subsection, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that the inland 
        waterways seaports are--
                    (A) equal in number to the Great Lakes seaports 
                included in the review;
                    (B) comparable to Great Lakes seaports included in 
                the review, as measured by number of imported shipments 
                arriving at the seaport each year; and
                    (C) covered by at least the same number of Field 
                Operations offices as the Great Lakes seaports included 
                in the review, but are not covered by the same Field 
                Operations offices as such Great Lakes seaports.
            (2) Elements.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        conduct a review of all Great Lakes and selected inland 
        waterways seaports that receive international cargo--
                    (A) to determine, for each such seaport--
                            (i) the current screening capability, 
                        including the types and numbers of screening 
                        equipment and whether such equipment is 
                        physically located at a seaport or assigned and 
                        available in the area and made available to 
                        use;
                            (ii) the number of U.S. Customs and Border 
                        Protection personnel assigned from a Field 
                        Operations office, broken out by role;
                            (iii) the expenditures for procurement and 
                        overtime incurred by U.S. Customs and Border 
                        Protection during the most recent fiscal year;
                            (iv) the types of cargo received, such as 
                        containerized, break-bulk, and bulk;
                            (v) the legal entity that owns the seaport;
                            (vi) a description of U.S. Customs and 
                        Border Protection's use of space at the 
                        seaport, including--
                                    (I) whether U.S. Customs and Border 
                                Protection or the General Services 
                                Administration owns or leases any 
                                facilities; and
                                    (II) if U.S. Customs and Border 
                                Protection is provided space at the 
                                seaport, a description of such space, 
                                including the number of workstations; 
                                and
                            (vii) the current cost-sharing arrangement 
                        for screening technology or reimbursable 
                        services;
                    (B) to identify, for each Field Operations office--
                            (i) any ports of entry that are staffed 
                        remotely from service ports;
                            (ii) the distance of each such service port 
                        from the corresponding ports of entry; and
                            (iii) the number of officers and the types 
                        of equipment U.S. Customs and Border Protection 
                        utilizes to screen cargo entering or exiting 
                        through such ports; and
                    (C) that includes a threat assessment of incoming 
                containerized and noncontainerized cargo at Great Lakes 
                seaports and selected inland waterways seaports.

SEC. 1066. REPORT ON THE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL DEFENSE PROGRAM OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the Chemical and 
Biological Defense Program of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the significance of the Chemical and 
        Biological Defense Program within the 2018 National Defense 
        Strategy.
            (2) A description and assessment of the threats the 
        Chemical and Biological Defense Program is designed to address.
            (3) An assessment of the capacity of current Chemical and 
        Biological Defense Program facilities to complete their 
        missions if funding levels for the Program are reduced.
            (4) An estimate of the length of time required to return 
        the Chemical and Biological Defense Program to its current 
        capacity if funding levels reduced for the Program as described 
        in paragraph (3) are restored.
            (5) An assessment of the threat posed to members of the 
        Armed Forces as a result of a reduction in testing of gear for 
        field readiness by the Chemical and Biological Defense Program 
        by reason of reduced funding levels for the Program.
            (6) A description and assessment of the necessity of Non 
        Traditional Agent Defense Testing under the Chemical and 
        Biological Defense Program for Individual Protection Systems, 
        Collective Protection Systems, field decontamination systems, 
        and chemical agent detectors.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in classified form, available for review by any Member of Congress, but 
shall include an unclassified summary.

SEC. 1067. REPORT ON ROUND-THE-CLOCK AVAILABILITY OF CHILDCARE FOR 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WHO WORK ROTATING SHIFTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth the results of a study, 
conducted by the Secretary for purposes of the report, on the 
feasibility and advisability of making round-the-clock childcare 
available for children of members of the Armed Forces and civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense who works on rotating shifts at 
military installations.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) The results of the study described in that subsection.
            (2) If the Secretary determines that making round-the-clock 
        childcare available as described in subsection (a) is feasible 
        and advisable, such matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate in connection with making such childcare available, 
        including--
                    (A) an identification of the installations at which 
                such childcare would be beneficial to members of the 
                Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department, or 
                both;
                    (B) an identification of any barriers to making 
                such childcare available at the installations 
                identified pursuant to subparagraph (A);
                    (C) an assessment whether the childcare needs of 
                members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of 
                the Department described in subsection (a) would be 
                better met by an increase in assistance for childcare 
                fees;
                    (D) a description and assessment of the actions, if 
                any, being taken to make such childcare available at 
                the installations identified pursuant to subparagraph 
                (A); and
                    (E) such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate to make such childcare available at the 
                installations identified pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
                or at any other military installations.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1081. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRATEGIC ARCTIC PORTS.

    (a) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
forth an updated assessment of the estimated cost of constructing, 
maintaining, and operating a strategic port in the Arctic at each 
potential site evaluated in the report pursuant to section 1752(b) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 
116-92). The report under this subsection shall include, for each 
potential site at which construction of such a port could be completed 
by 2030, an estimate of the number of days per year that such port 
would be usable by vessels of the Navy and the Coast Guard.
    (b) Designation of Strategic Arctic Ports.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date on which the report required by subsection (a) is 
submitted, the Secretary of Defense may, in consultation with the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding General of the 
United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast 
Guard, and the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, designate 
one or more ports as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports from 
the sites identified in the report referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to authorize any additional appropriations for the Department of 
Defense for the establishment of any port designated pursuant to this 
section.
    (d) Arctic Defined.--In this section, the term ``Arctic'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and 
Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).

SEC. 1082. PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT MATTERS.

    (a) Briefings on Fielding of Newest Generations of PPE to the Armed 
Forces.--
            (1) Briefings required.--Not later than January 31, 2021, 
        each Secretary of a military department shall submit to 
        Congress a briefing on the fielding of the newest generations 
        of personal protective equipment (PPE) to the Armed Forces 
        under the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
            (2) Elements.--Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, for each Armed Force covered by such briefing, the 
        following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of the fielding of 
                newest generations of personal protective equipment to 
                members of such Armed Force, including the following:
                            (i) The number (aggregated by total number 
                        and by sex) of members of such Armed Force 
                        issued the Army Soldiers Protective System and 
                        the Modular Scalable Vest Generation II body 
                        armor as of December 31, 2020.
                            (ii) The number (aggregated by total number 
                        and by sex) of members of such Armed Force 
                        issued Marine Corps Plate Carrier Generation 
                        III (PC Gen III) body armor as of that date.
                            (iii) The number (aggregated by total 
                        number and by sex) of members of such Armed 
                        Force fitted with legacy personal protective 
                        equipment as of that date.
                    (B) A description and assessment of the barriers, 
                if any, to the fielding of such generations of 
                equipment to such members.
                    (C) A description and assessment of challenges in 
                the fielding of such generations of equipment to such 
                members, including cost overruns, contractor delays, 
                and other challenges.
    (b) System for Tracking Data on Injuries Among Members of the Armed 
Forces in Use of Newest Generation PPE.--
            (1) System required.--
                    (A) In general.--The Director of the Defense Health 
                Agency (DHA) shall develop and maintain a system for 
                tracking data on injuries among members of the Armed 
                Forces in and during the use of newest generation 
                personal protective equipment.
                    (B) Scope of system.--The system required by this 
                paragraph may, at the election of the Director, be new 
                for purposes of this subsection or within or a 
                modification of an appropriate existing system (such as 
                the Defense Occupational And Environmental Health 
                Readiness System (DOEHRS)).
            (2) Briefing.--Not later than January 31, 2025, the 
        Director shall submit to Congress a briefing on the prevalence 
        among members of the Armed Forces of preventable injuries 
        attributable to ill-fitting or malfunctioning personal 
        protective equipment.
    (c) Assessments of Members of the Armed Forces of Injuries Incurred 
in Connection With Ill-fitting or Malfunctioning PPE.--
            (1) In general.--Each health assessment specified in 
        paragraph (2) that is undertaken after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act shall include the following:
                    (A) One or more questions on whether members 
                incurred an injury in connection with ill-fitting or 
                malfunctioning personal protective equipment during the 
                period covered by such assessment, including the nature 
                of such injury.
                    (B) In the case members who have so incurred such 
                an injury, one or more elements of self-evaluation of 
                such injury by such members for purposes of 
                facilitating timely documentation and enhanced 
                monitoring of such members and injuries.
            (2) Assessments.--The health assessments specified in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) The annual Periodic Health Assessment (PHA) of 
                members of the Armed Forces.
                    (B) The post-deployment health assessment of 
                members of the Armed Forces.

SEC. 1083. ESTIMATE OF DAMAGES FROM FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 
              ORDER 20-48.

    (a) Limitation, Estimate, and Certification.--None of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 may be 
used by the Secretary of Defense to comply with the Order and 
Authorization adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on April 
19, 2020 (FCC 20-48) until the Secretary--
            (1) submits to the congressional defense committees an 
        estimate of the extent of covered costs and the range of 
        eligible reimbursable costs associated with interference 
        resulting from such order and authorization to the Global 
        Positioning System of the Department of Defense; and
            (2) certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
        the estimate submitted under paragraph (1) is accurate with a 
        high degree of certainty.
    (b) Covered Costs.--For purposes of this section, covered costs 
include costs that would be incurred--
            (1) to upgrade, repair, or replace potentially affected 
        receivers of the Federal Government;
            (2) to modify, repair, or replace equipment, spares, 
        associated ancillary equipment, software, facilities, operating 
        manuals, training, or compliance with regulations, including 
        with regard to the underlying platform or system in which a 
        capability of the Global Positioning System is embedded; and
            (3) for personnel of the Department to engineer, validate, 
        and verify that any required remediation provides the 
        Department with the same operational capability for the 
        affected system prior to terrestrial operation in the 1525 to 
        1559 megahertz or 1626.5 to 1660.5 megahertz bands of 
        electromagnetic spectrum.
    (c) Range of Eligible Reimbursable Costs.--For purposes of this 
section, the range of eligible reimbursable costs includes--
            (1) costs associated with engineering, equipment, software, 
        site acquisition, and construction;
            (2) any transaction expense that the Secretary determines 
        is legitimate and prudent;
            (3) costs relating to term-limited Federal civil servant 
        and contractor staff; and
            (4) the costs of research, engineering studies, or other 
        expenses the Secretary determines reasonably incurred.

SEC. 1084. MODERNIZATION EFFORT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Assistant Secretary'' means the Assistant 
        Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information;
            (2) the term ``covered agency''--
                    (A) means any Federal entity that the Assistant 
                Secretary determines is appropriate; and
                    (B) includes the Department of Defense;
            (3) the term ``Federal entity'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 113(l) of the National Telecommunications and 
        Information Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(l));
            (4) the term ``Federal spectrum'' means frequencies 
        assigned on a primary basis to a covered agency;
            (5) the term ``infrastructure'' means information 
        technology systems and information technologies, tools, and 
        databases; and
            (6) the term ``NTIA'' means the National Telecommunications 
        and Information Administration.
    (b) Initial Interagency Spectrum Information Technology 
Coordination.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the Policy and 
Plans Steering Group, shall identify a process to establish goals, 
including parameters to measure the achievement of those goals, for the 
modernization of the infrastructure of covered agencies relating to 
managing the use of Federal spectrum by those agencies, which shall 
include--
            (1) the standardization of data inputs, modeling 
        algorithms, modeling and simulation processes, analysis tools 
        with respect to Federal spectrum, assumptions, and any other 
        tool to ensure interoperability and functionality with respect 
        to that infrastructure;
            (2) other potential innovative technological capabilities 
        with respect to that infrastructure, including cloud-based 
        databases, artificial intelligence technologies, automation, 
        and improved modeling and simulation capabilities;
            (3) ways to improve the management of covered agencies' use 
        of Federal spectrum through that infrastructure, including by--
                    (A) increasing the efficiency of that 
                infrastructure;
                    (B) addressing validation of usage with respect to 
                that infrastructure;
                    (C) increasing the accuracy of that infrastructure;
                    (D) validating models used by that infrastructure; 
                and
                    (E) monitoring and enforcing requirements that are 
                imposed on covered agencies with respect to the use of 
                Federal spectrum by covered agencies;
            (4) ways to improve the ability of covered agencies to meet 
        mission requirements in congested environments with respect to 
        Federal spectrum, including as part of automated adjustments to 
        operations based on changing conditions in those environments;
            (5) the creation of a time-based automated mechanism--
                    (A) to share Federal spectrum between covered 
                agencies to collaboratively and dynamically increase 
                access to Federal spectrum by those agencies; and
                    (B) that could be scaled across Federal spectrum; 
                and
            (6) the collaboration between covered agencies necessary to 
        ensure the interoperability of Federal spectrum.
    (c) Spectrum Information Technology Modernization.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 240 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress a report that contains the plan of the NTIA to 
        modernize and automate the infrastructure of the NTIA relating 
        to managing the use of Federal spectrum by covered agencies so 
        as to more efficiently manage that use.
            (2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the current, as of the date on 
                which the report is submitted, infrastructure of the 
                NTIA described in that paragraph;
                    (B) an acquisition strategy for the modernized 
                infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph, 
                including how that modernized infrastructure will 
                enable covered agencies to be more efficient and 
                effective in the use of Federal spectrum;
                    (C) a timeline for the implementation of the 
                modernization efforts described in that paragraph;
                    (D) plans detailing how the modernized 
                infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph 
                will--
                            (i) enhance the security and reliability of 
                        that infrastructure so that such infrastructure 
                        satisfies the requirements of subchapter II of 
                        chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code;
                            (ii) improve data models and analysis tools 
                        to increase the efficiency of the spectrum use 
                        described in that paragraph;
                            (iii) enhance automation and workflows, and 
                        reduce the scope and level of manual effort, in 
                        order to--
                                    (I) administer the management of 
                                the spectrum use described in that 
                                paragraph; and
                                    (II) improve data quality and 
                                processing time; and
                            (iv) improve the timeliness of spectrum 
                        analyses and requests for information, 
                        including requests submitted pursuant to 
                        section 552 of title 5, United States Code;
                    (E) an operations and maintenance plan with respect 
                to the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA described 
                in that paragraph;
                    (F) a strategy for coordination between the covered 
                agencies within the Policy and Plans Steering Group, 
                which shall include--
                            (i) a description of--
                                    (I) those coordination efforts, as 
                                in effect on the date on which the 
                                report is submitted; and
                                    (II) a plan for coordination of 
                                those efforts after the date on which 
                                the report is submitted, including with 
                                respect to the efforts described in 
                                subsection (d);
                            (ii) a plan for standardizing--
                                    (I) electromagnetic spectrum 
                                analysis tools;
                                    (II) modeling and simulation 
                                processes and technologies; and
                                    (III) databases to provide 
                                technical interference assessments that 
                                are usable across the Federal 
                                Government as part of a common spectrum 
                                management infrastructure for covered 
                                agencies;
                            (iii) a plan for each covered agency to 
                        implement a modernization plan described in 
                        subsection (d)(1) that is tailored to the 
                        particular timeline of the agency;
                    (G) identification of manually intensive processes 
                involved in managing Federal spectrum and proposed 
                enhancements to those processes;
                    (H) metrics to evaluate the success of the 
                modernization efforts described in that paragraph and 
                any similar future efforts; and
                    (I) an estimate of the cost of the modernization 
                efforts described in that paragraph and any future 
                maintenance with respect to the modernized 
                infrastructure of the NTIA described in that paragraph, 
                including the cost of any personnel and equipment 
                relating to that maintenance.
    (d) Interagency Inputs.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the head of each covered agency shall 
        submit to the Assistant Secretary and the Policy and Plans 
        Steering Group a report that describes the plan of the agency 
        to modernize the infrastructure of the agency with respect to 
        the use of Federal spectrum by the agency so that such 
        modernized infrastructure of the agency is interoperable with 
        the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA, as described in 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted by the head of a 
        covered agency under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) include--
                            (i) an assessment of the current, as of the 
                        date on which the report is submitted, 
                        management capabilities of the agency with 
                        respect to the use of frequencies that are 
                        assigned to the agency, which shall include a 
                        description of any challenges faced by the 
                        agency with respect to that management;
                            (ii) a timeline for completion of the 
                        modernization efforts described in that 
                        paragraph; and
                            (iii) a description of potential innovative 
                        technological capabilities for the management 
                        of frequencies that are assigned to the agency, 
                        as determined under subsection (b);
                            (iv) identification of agency-specific 
                        requirements or constraints relating to the 
                        infrastructure of the agency;
                            (v) identification of any existing, as of 
                        the date on which the report is submitted, 
                        systems of the agency that are duplicative of 
                        the modernized infrastructure of the NTIA, as 
                        proposed under subsection (c); and
                            (vi) with respect to the report submitted 
                        by the Secretary of Defense--
                                    (I) a strategy for the integration 
                                of systems or the flow of data among 
                                the Armed Forces, the military 
                                departments, the Defense Agencies and 
                                Department of Defense Field Activities, 
                                and other components of the Department 
                                of Defense;
                                    (II) a plan for the implementation 
                                of solutions to the use of Federal 
                                spectrum by the Department of Defense 
                                involving information at multiple 
                                levels of classification; and
                                    (III) a strategy for addressing, 
                                within the modernized infrastructure of 
                                the Department of Defense described in 
                                that paragraph, the exchange of 
                                information between the Department of 
                                Defense and the NTIA in order to 
                                accomplish required processing of all 
                                Department of Defense domestic spectrum 
                                coordination and management activities; 
                                and
                    (B) be submitted in an unclassified format, with a 
                classified annex, as appropriate.
            (3) Notification of congress.--Upon submission of the 
        report required under paragraph (1), the head of each covered 
        agency shall notify Congress that the head of the covered 
        agency has submitted the report.
    (e) GAO Oversight.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall--
            (1) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, conduct a review of the infrastructure of covered 
        agencies, as that infrastructure exists on the date of 
        enactment of this Act;
            (2) after all of the reports required under subsection (d) 
        have been submitted, conduct oversight of the implementation of 
        the modernization plans submitted by the NTIA and covered 
        agencies under subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
            (3) not later than 1 year after the date on which the 
        Comptroller General begins conducting oversight under paragraph 
        (2), and annually thereafter, submit a report regarding that 
        oversight to--
                    (A) with respect to the implementation of the 
                modernization plan of the Department of Defense, the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (B) with respect to the implementation of the 
                modernization plans of all covered agencies, including 
                the Department of Defense, the Committee on Commerce, 
                Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
                Representatives; and
            (4) provide regular briefings to--
                    (A) with respect to the application of this section 
                to the Department of Defense, the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
                Services of the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) with respect to the application of this section 
                to all covered agencies, including the Department of 
                Defense, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1085. SENSE OF SENATE ON GOLD STAR FAMILIES REMEMBRANCE WEEK.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The last Sunday in September--
                    (A) is designated as ``Gold Star Mother's Day'' 
                under section 111 of title 36, United States Code; and
                    (B) was first designated as ``Gold Star Mother's 
                Day'' under the Joint Resolution entitled ``Joint 
                Resolution designating the last Sunday in September as 
                `Gold Star Mother's Day', and for other purposes'', 
                approved June 23, 1936 (49 Stat. 1895).
            (2) There is no date dedicated to families affected by the 
        loss of a loved one who died in service to the United States.
            (3) A gold star symbolizes a family member who died in the 
        line of duty while serving in the Armed Forces.
            (4) The members and veterans of the Armed Forces, through 
        their service, bear the burden of protecting the freedom of the 
        people of the United States.
            (5) The selfless example of the service of the members and 
        veterans of the Armed Forces, as well as the sacrifices made by 
        the families of those individuals, inspires all individuals in 
        the United States to sacrifice and work diligently for the good 
        of the United States.
            (6) The sacrifices of the families of the fallen members of 
        the Armed Forces and the families of veterans of the Armed 
        Forces should never be forgotten.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Senate--
            (1) designates the week of September 20 through September 
        26, 2020, as ``Gold Star Families Remembrance Week'';
            (2) honors and recognizes the sacrifices made by--
                    (A) the families of members of the Armed Forces who 
                made the ultimate sacrifice in order to defend freedom 
                and protect the United States; and
                    (B) the families of veterans of the Armed Forces; 
                and
            (3) encourages the people of the United States to observe 
        Gold Star Families Remembrance Week by--
                    (A) performing acts of service and good will in 
                their communities; and
                    (B) celebrating families in which loved ones made 
                the ultimate sacrifice so that others could continue to 
                enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.

SEC. 1086. CONTINUITY OF THE ECONOMY PLAN.

    (a) Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall develop and maintain a 
        plan to maintain and restore the economy of the United States 
        in response to a significant event.
            (2) Principles.--The plan required under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) be consistent with--
                            (i) a free market economy; and
                            (ii) the rule of law; and
                    (B) respect private property rights.
            (3) Contents.--The plan required under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) examine the distribution of goods and services 
                across the United States necessary for the reliable 
                functioning of the United States during a significant 
                event;
                    (B) identify the economic functions of relevant 
                actors, the disruption, corruption, or dysfunction of 
                which would have a debilitating effect in the United 
                States on--
                            (i) security;
                            (ii) economic security;
                            (iii) defense readiness; or
                            (iv) public health or safety;
                    (C) identify the critical distribution mechanisms 
                for each economic sector that should be prioritized for 
                operation during a significant event, including--
                            (i) bulk power and electric transmission 
                        systems;
                            (ii) national and international financial 
                        systems, including wholesale payments, stocks, 
                        and currency exchanges;
                            (iii) national and international 
                        communications networks, data-hosting services, 
                        and cloud services;
                            (iv) interstate oil and natural gas 
                        pipelines; and
                            (v) mechanisms for the interstate and 
                        international trade and distribution of 
                        materials, food, and medical supplies, 
                        including road, rail, air, and maritime 
                        shipping;
                    (D) identify economic functions of relevant actors, 
                the disruption, corruption, or dysfunction of which 
                would cause--
                            (i) catastrophic economic loss;
                            (ii) the loss of public confidence; or
                            (iii) the widespread imperilment of human 
                        life;
                    (E) identify the economic functions of relevant 
                actors that are so vital to the economy of the United 
                States that the disruption, corruption, or dysfunction 
                of those economic functions would undermine response, 
                recovery, or mobilization efforts during a significant 
                event;
                    (F) incorporate, to the greatest extent 
                practicable, the principles and practices contained 
                within Federal plans for the continuity of Government 
                and continuity of operations;
                    (G) identify--
                            (i) industrial control networks on which 
                        the interests of national security outweigh the 
                        benefits of dependence on internet 
                        connectivity, including networks that are 
                        required to maintain defense readiness; and
                            (ii) for each industrial control network 
                        described in clause (i), the most feasible and 
                        optimal locations for the installation of--
                                    (I) parallel services;
                                    (II) stand-alone analog services; 
                                and
                                    (III) services that are otherwise 
                                hardened against failure;
                    (H) identify critical economic sectors for which 
                the preservation of data in a protected, verified, and 
                uncorrupted status would be required for the quick 
                recovery of the economy of the United States in the 
                face of a significant disruption following a 
                significant event;
                    (I) include a list of raw materials, industrial 
                goods, and other items, the absence of which would 
                significantly undermine the ability of the United 
                States to sustain the functions described in 
                subparagraphs (B), (D), and (E);
                    (J) provide an analysis of supply chain 
                diversification for the items described in subparagraph 
                (I) in the event of a disruption caused by a 
                significant event;
                    (K) include--
                            (i) a recommendation as to whether the 
                        United States should maintain a strategic 
                        reserve of 1 or more of the items described in 
                        subparagraph (I); and
                            (ii) for each item described in 
                        subparagraph (I) for which the President 
                        recommends maintaining a strategic reserve 
                        under clause (i), an identification of 
                        mechanisms for tracking inventory and 
                        availability of the item in the strategic 
                        reserve;
                    (L) identify mechanisms in existence on the date of 
                enactment of this Act and mechanisms that can be 
                developed to ensure that the swift transport and 
                delivery of the items described in subparagraph (I) is 
                feasible in the event of a distribution network 
                disturbance or degradation, including a distribution 
                network disturbance or degradation caused by a 
                significant event;
                    (M) include guidance for determining the 
                prioritization for the distribution of the items 
                described in subparagraph (I), including distribution 
                to States and Indian Tribes;
                    (N) consider the advisability and feasibility of 
                mechanisms for extending the credit of the United 
                States or providing other financial support authorized 
                by law to key participants in the economy of the United 
                States if the extension or provision of other financial 
                support--
                            (i) is necessary to avoid severe economic 
                        degradation; or
                            (ii) allows for the recovery from a 
                        significant event;
                    (O) include guidance for determining categories of 
                employees that should be prioritized to continue to 
                work in order to sustain the functions described in 
                subparagraphs (B), (D), and (E) in the event that there 
                are limitations on the ability of individuals to travel 
                to workplaces or to work remotely, including 
                considerations for defense readiness;
                    (P) identify critical economic sectors necessary to 
                provide material and operational support to the defense 
                of the United States;
                    (Q) determine whether the Secretary of Homeland 
                Security, the National Guard, and the Secretary of 
                Defense have adequate authority to assist the United 
                States in a recovery from a severe economic degradation 
                caused by a significant event;
                    (R) review and assess the authority and capability 
                of heads of other agencies that the President 
                determines necessary to assist the United States in a 
                recovery from a severe economic degradation caused by a 
                significant event; and
                    (S) consider any other matter that would aid in 
                protecting and increasing the resilience of the economy 
                of the United States from a significant event.
    (b) Coordination.--In developing the plan required under subsection 
(a)(1), the President shall--
            (1) receive advice from--
                    (A) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
                    (B) the Secretary of Defense;
                    (C) the Secretary of the Treasury;
                    (D) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
                    (E) the Secretary of Commerce;
                    (F) the Secretary of Transportation;
                    (G) the Secretary of Energy;
                    (H) the Administrator of the Small Business 
                Administration; and
                    (I) the head of any other agency that the President 
                determines necessary to complete the plan;
            (2) consult with economic sectors relating to critical 
        infrastructure through sector-coordinated councils, as 
        appropriate;
            (3) consult with relevant State, Tribal, and local 
        governments and organizations that represent those governments; 
        and
            (4) consult with any other non-Federal entity that the 
        President determines necessary to complete the plan.
    (c) Submission to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than every 3 
        years thereafter, the President shall submit the plan required 
        under subsection (a)(1) and the information described in 
        paragraph (2) to--
                    (A) the majority and minority leaders of the 
                Senate;
                    (B) the Speaker and the minority leader of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (F) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (G) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
                Pensions of the Senate;
                    (H) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (I) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (J) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (K) the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
                    (L) the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (M) the Committee on Small Business and 
                Entrepreneurship of the Senate;
                    (N) the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (O) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate;
                    (P) the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate; and
                    (Q) any other committee of the Senate or the House 
                of Representatives that has jurisdiction over the 
                subject of the plan.
            (2) Additional information.--The information described in 
        this paragraph is--
                    (A) any change to Federal law that would be 
                necessary to carry out the plan required under 
                subsection (a)(1); and
                    (B) any proposed changes to the funding levels 
                provided in appropriation Acts for the most recent 
                fiscal year that can be implemented in future 
                appropriation Acts or additional resources necessary 
                to--
                            (i) implement the plan required under 
                        subsection (a)(1); or
                            (ii) maintain any program offices and 
                        personnel necessary to--
                                    (I) maintain the plan required 
                                under subsection (a)(1) and the plans 
                                described in subsection (a)(3)(F); and
                                    (II) conduct exercises, 
                                assessments, and updates to the plans 
                                described in subclause (I) over time.
            (3) Budget of the president.--The President may include the 
        information described in paragraph (2)(B) in the budget 
        required to be submitted by the President under section 1105(a) 
        of title 31, United States Code.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``agency'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) The term ``economic sector'' means a sector of the 
        economy of the United States.
            (3) The term ``relevant actor'' means--
                    (A) the Federal government;
                    (B) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
                    (C) the private sector.
            (4) The term ``significant event'' means an event that 
        causes severe degradation to economic activity in the United 
        States due to--
                    (A) a cyber attack; or
                    (B) another significant event that is natural or 
                human-caused.
            (5) The term ``State'' means any State of the United 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any 
        possession of the United States.

SEC. 1087. IMPROVING THE AUTHORITY FOR OPERATIONS OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT 
              FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES.

    Section 350 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-
254; 49 U.S.C 44809 note) is amended
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``at institutions 
        of higher education'' and inserting ``for educational 
        purposes''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``aircraft system operated by'' and 
                inserting the following: ``aircraft system--
            ``(1) operated by'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), as added by subparagraph (A), 
                by striking the period at the end and inserting a 
                semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) flown as part of the established curriculum of an 
        elementary school or secondary school (as such terms are 
        defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801));
            ``(3) flown as part of an established Junior Reserve 
        Officers' Training Corps (JROTC) program; or
            ``(4) flown as part of an educational program that is 
        chartered by a recognized community-based organization (as 
        defined in subsection (h) of such section).''.

SEC. 1088. REQUIREMENT TO POST A 100 WORD SUMMARY TO REGULATIONS.GOV.

    Section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) the Internet address of a summary of not more than 
        100 words in length of the proposed rule, in plain language, 
        that shall be posted on the Internet website under section 
        206(d) of the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3501 note) 
        (commonly known as regulations.gov).''.

SEC. 1089. MODIFICATION OF LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR HEALTH CARE 
              PROFESSIONALS PROVIDING TREATMENT VIA TELEMEDICINE.

    Section 1730C(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(b) Covered Health Care Professionals.--For purposes of this 
section, a covered health care professional is any of the following 
individuals:
            ``(1) A health care professional who--
                    ``(A) is an employee of the Department appointed 
                under section 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 of this 
                title or title 5;
                    ``(B) is authorized by the Secretary to provide 
                health care under this chapter;
                    ``(C) is required to adhere to all standards for 
                quality relating to the provision of health care in 
                accordance with applicable policies of the Department; 
                and
                    ``(D)(i) has an active, current, full, and 
                unrestricted license, registration, or certification in 
                a State to practice the health care profession of the 
                health care professional; or
                    ``(ii) with respect to a health care profession 
                listed under section 7402(b) of this title, has the 
                qualifications for such profession as set forth by the 
                Secretary.
            ``(2) A postgraduate health care employee who--
                    ``(A) is appointed under section 7401(1), 7401(3), 
                or 7405 of this title or title 5 for any category of 
                personnel described in paragraph (1) or (3) of section 
                7401 of this title;
                    ``(B) must obtain an active, current, full, and 
                unrestricted license, registration, or certification or 
                meet qualification standards set forth by the Secretary 
                within a specified time frame; and
                    ``(C) is under the clinical supervision of a health 
                care professional described in paragraph (1); or
            ``(3) A health professions trainee who--
                    ``(A) is appointed under section 7405 or 7406 of 
                this title; and
                    ``(B) is under the clinical supervision of a health 
                care professional described in paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 1090. RESTRICTIONS ON CONFUCIUS INSTITUTES.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Confucius Institute'' 
means a cultural institute directly or indirectly funded by the 
Government of the People's Republic of China.
    (b) Restrictions on Confucius Institutes.--An institution of higher 
education or other postsecondary educational institution (referred to 
in this section as an ``institution'') shall not be eligible to receive 
Federal funds from the Department of Education (except funds under 
title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) 
or other Department of Education funds that are provided directly to 
students) unless the institution ensures that any contract or agreement 
between the institution and a Confucius Institute includes clear 
provisions that--
            (1) protect academic freedom at the institution;
            (2) prohibit the application of any foreign law on any 
        campus of the institution; and
            (3) grant full managerial authority of the Confucius 
        Institute to the institution, including full control over what 
        is being taught, the activities carried out, the research 
        grants that are made, and who is employed at the Confucius 
        Institute.

SEC. 1090A. ADDITIONAL CARE FOR NEWBORN CHILDREN OF VETERANS.

    Section 1786 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
        Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Exception Based on Medical Necessity.--Pursuant to such 
regulations as the Secretary shall prescribe to carry out this section, 
the Secretary may furnish more than seven days of health care services 
described in subsection (b), and may furnish transportation necessary 
to receive such services, to a newborn child based on medical necessity 
if the child is in need of additional care, including if the child has 
been discharged or released from a hospital and requires readmittance 
to ensure the health and welfare of the child.''.

SEC. 1090B. ADDITIONAL DISEASES ASSOCIATED WITH EXPOSURE TO CERTAIN 
              HERBICIDE AGENTS FOR WHICH THERE IS A PRESUMPTION OF 
              SERVICE CONNECTION FOR VETERANS WHO SERVED IN THE 
              REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM.

    Section 1116(a)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(I) Parkinsonism.
            ``(J) Bladder cancer.
            ``(K) Hypothyroidism.''.

 Subtitle H--Wireless Supply Chain Innovation and Multilateral Security

SEC. 1091. DEFINITIONS.

     In this subtitle:
            (1) 3GPP.--The term ``3GPP'' means the Third Generation 
        Partnership Project.
            (2) 5G network.--The term ``5G network'' means a radio 
        network as described by 3GPP Release 15 or higher.
            (3) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Communications Commission.
            (4) NTIA administrator.--The term ``NTIA Administrator'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications 
        and Information.
            (5) Open-RAN.--The term ``Open-RAN'' means the Open Radio 
        Access Network approach to standardization adopted by the O-RAN 
        Alliance, Telecom Infra Project, or 3GPP, or any similar set of 
        open standards for multi-vendor network equipment 
        interoperability.
            (6) Relevant committees of congress.--The term ``relevant 
        committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
                    (E) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (F) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
                    (G) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives;
                    (H) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (I) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (J) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives;
                    (K) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (L) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 1092. COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY SECURITY FUNDS.

    (a) Use of Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Fund.--
As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Commission shall transfer from the Digital Television Transition and 
Public Safety Fund established under section 309(j)(8)(E) of the 
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)(8)(E))--
            (1) $50,000,000 to the Public Wireless Supply Chain 
        Innovation Fund established under subsection (b) of this 
        section; and
            (2) $25,000,000 to the Multilateral Telecommunications 
        Security Fund established under subsection (c) of this section.
    (b) Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund.--
            (1) Establishment.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established in the 
                Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known 
                as the ``Public Wireless Supply Chain Innovation Fund'' 
                (referred to in this subsection as the ``R&D Fund'').
                    (B) Availability.--
                            (i) In general.--Amounts deposited in the 
                        R&D Fund shall remain available through the end 
                        of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the 
                        date of enactment of this Act.
                            (ii) Remainder to treasury.--Any amounts 
                        remaining in the R&D Fund after the end of the 
                        tenth fiscal year beginning after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act shall be deposited in the 
                        general fund of the Treasury.
            (2) Use of fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts deposited in the R&D Fund 
                shall be available to the NTIA Administrator to make 
                grants under this subsection in such amounts as the 
                NTIA Administrator determines appropriate, subject to 
                subparagraph (B) of this subparagraph.
                    (B) Limitation on grant amounts.--The amount of a 
                grant awarded under this subsection to a recipient for 
                a specific research focus area may not exceed 
                $50,000,000.
            (3) Administration of fund.--The NTIA Administrator, in 
        consultation with the Commission, the Director of the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director 
        of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity of the 
        Office of the Director of National Intelligence, shall 
        establish criteria for grants awarded under this subsection, 
        and administer the R&D Fund, to support research and the 
        commercial application of that research, including in the 
        following areas:
                    (A) Promoting the development of technology, 
                including software, hardware, and microprocessing 
                technology, that will enhance competitiveness in the 
                fifth-generation (commonly known as ``5G'') and 
                successor wireless technology supply chains.
                    (B) Accelerating development and deployment of open 
                interface standards-based compatible, interoperable 
                equipment, such as equipment developed pursuant to the 
                standards set forth by organizations such as the O-RAN 
                Alliance, the Telecom Infra Project, 3GPP, the Open-RAN 
                Software Community, or any successor organizations.
                    (C) Promoting compatibility of new 5G equipment 
                with future open standards-based, interoperable 
                equipment.
                    (D) Managing integration of multi-vendor network 
                environments.
                    (E) Objective criteria to define equipment as 
                compliant with open standards for multi-vendor network 
                equipment interoperability.
                    (F) Promoting development and inclusion of security 
                features enhancing the integrity and availability of 
                equipment in multi-vendor networks.
                    (G) Promoting the application of network function 
                virtualization to facilitate multi-vendor 
                interoperability and a more diverse vendor market.
            (4) Nonduplication of research.--To the greatest extent 
        practicable, the NTIA Administrator shall ensure that any 
        research funded by a grant awarded under this subsection avoids 
        duplication of other Federal or private sector research.
            (5) Timing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the NTIA Administrator shall begin 
        awarding grants under this subsection.
            (6) Federal advisory body.--
                    (A) Establishment.--The NTIA Administrator shall 
                establish a Federal advisory committee, in accordance 
                with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
                App.), composed of government and private sector 
                experts, to advise the NTIA Administrator on the 
                administration of the R&D Fund.
                    (B) Composition.--The advisory committee 
                established under subparagraph (A) shall be composed 
                of--
                            (i) representatives from--
                                    (I) the Commission;
                                    (II) the Department of Defense;
                                    (III) the Intelligence Advanced 
                                Research Projects Activity of the 
                                Office of the Director of National 
                                Intelligence;
                                    (IV) the National Institute of 
                                Standards and Technology;
                                    (V) the Department of State;
                                    (VI) the National Science 
                                Foundation; and
                                    (VII) the Department of Homeland 
                                Security; and
                            (ii) other representatives from the private 
                        and public sectors, at the discretion of the 
                        NTIA Administrator.
                    (C) Duties.--The advisory committee established 
                under subparagraph (A) shall advise the NTIA 
                Administrator on technology developments to help 
                inform--
                            (i) the strategic direction of the R&D 
                        Fund; and
                            (ii) efforts of the Federal Government to 
                        promote a more secure, diverse, sustainable, 
                        and competitive supply chain.
            (7) Reports to congress.--
                    (A) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the NTIA 
                Administrator shall submit to the relevant committees 
                of Congress a report with--
                            (i) additional recommendations on promoting 
                        the competitiveness and sustainability of 
                        trusted suppliers in the wireless supply chain; 
                        and
                            (ii) any additional authorities needed to 
                        facilitate the timely adoption of open 
                        standards-based equipment, including authority 
                        to provide loans, loan guarantees, and other 
                        forms of credit extension that would maximize 
                        the use of designated funds.
                    (B) Annual report.--For each fiscal year for which 
                amounts in the R&D Fund are available under this 
                subsection, the NTIA Administrator shall submit to 
                Congress a report that--
                            (i) describes how, and to whom, amounts in 
                        the R&D Fund have been deployed;
                            (ii) details the progress of the NTIA 
                        Administrator in meeting the objectives 
                        described in paragraph (3); and
                            (iii) includes any additional information 
                        that the NTIA Administrator determines 
                        appropriate.
    (c) Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund.--
            (1) Establishment of fund.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established in the 
                Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known 
                as the ``Multilateral Telecommunications Security 
                Fund''.
                    (B) Use of fund.--Amounts deposited in the 
                Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund shall be 
                available to the Secretary of State to make 
                expenditures under this subsection in such amounts as 
                the Secretary of State determines appropriate.
                    (C) Availability.--
                            (i) In general.--Amounts deposited in the 
                        Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund--
                                    (I) shall remain available through 
                                the end of the tenth fiscal year 
                                beginning after the date of enactment 
                                of this Act; and
                                    (II) may only be allocated upon the 
                                Secretary of State reaching an 
                                agreement with foreign government 
                                partners to participate in the common 
                                funding mechanism described in 
                                paragraph (2).
                            (ii) Remainder to treasury.--Any amounts 
                        remaining in the Multilateral 
                        Telecommunications Security Fund after the end 
                        of the tenth fiscal year beginning after the 
                        date of enactment of this Act shall be 
                        deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
            (2) Administration of fund.--The Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the NTIA Administrator, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        the Treasury, the Director of National Intelligence, and the 
        Commission, shall establish a common funding mechanism, in 
        coordination with foreign partners, that uses amounts from the 
        Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund to support the 
        development and adoption of secure and trusted 
        telecommunications technologies.
            (3) Annual report to congress.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 
        each fiscal year during which amounts in the Multilateral 
        Telecommunications Security Fund are available, the Secretary 
        of State shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a 
        report on the status and progress of the funding mechanism 
        established under paragraph (2), including--
                    (A) any funding commitments from foreign partners, 
                including each specific amount committed;
                    (B) governing criteria for use of the Multilateral 
                Telecommunications Security Fund;
                    (C) an account of--
                            (i) how, and to whom, funds have been 
                        deployed;
                            (ii) amounts remaining in the Multilateral 
                        Telecommunications Security Fund; and
                            (iii) the progress of the Secretary of 
                        State in meeting the objective described in 
                        paragraph (2); and
                    (D) additional authorities needed to enhance the 
                effectiveness of the Multilateral Telecommunications 
                Security Fund in achieving the security goals of the 
                United States.

SEC. 1093. PROMOTING UNITED STATES LEADERSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL 
              ORGANIZATIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS STANDARDS-SETTING 
              BODIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, 
and the Chairman of the Commission, or their designees, shall consider 
how to enhance representation of the United States at international 
forums that set standards for 5G networks and for future generations of 
wireless communications networks, including--
            (1) the International Telecommunication Union (commonly 
        known as ``ITU'');
            (2) the International Organization for Standardization 
        (commonly known as ``ISO'');
            (3) the Inter-American Telecommunications Commission 
        (commonly known as ``CITEL''); and
            (4) the voluntary standards organizations that develop 
        protocols for wireless devices and other equipment, such as the 
        3GPP and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 
        (commonly known as ``IEEE'').
    (b) Annual Report.--The Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
Commerce, and the Chairman of the Commission shall jointly submit to 
the relevant committees of Congress an annual report on the progress 
made under subsection (a).

           Subtitle I--Semiconductor Manufacturing Incentives

SEC. 1094. SEMICONDUCTOR INCENTIVE GRANTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
                Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed 
                Services, the Committee on Appropriations, the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and 
                the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 
                the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on 
                Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the 
                Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial 
                Services, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
                House of Representatives;
            (2) the term ``covered entity'' means a private entity, a 
        consortium of private entities, or a consortium of public and 
        private entities with a demonstrated ability to construct, 
        expand, or modernize a facility relating to the fabrication, 
        assembly, testing, advanced packaging, or advanced research and 
        development of semiconductors;
            (3) the term ``covered incentive''--
                    (A) means an incentive offered by a governmental 
                entity to a covered entity for the purposes of 
                constructing within the jurisdiction of the 
                governmental entity, or expanding or modernizing an 
                existing facility within that jurisdiction, a facility 
                described in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) includes any tax incentive (such as an 
                incentive or reduction with respect to employment or 
                payroll taxes or a tax abatement with respect to 
                personal or real property), a workforce-related 
                incentive (including a grant agreement relating to 
                workforce training or vocational education), any 
                concession with respect to real property, funding for 
                research and development with respect to 
                semiconductors, and any other incentive determined 
                appropriate by the Secretary, in consultation with the 
                Secretary of State;
            (4) the term ``foreign adversary'' means any foreign 
        government or foreign nongovernment person that is engaged in a 
        long-term pattern, or is involved in a serious instance, of 
        conduct that is significantly adverse to--
                    (A) the national security of the United States or 
                an ally of the United States; or
                    (B) the security and safety of United States 
                persons;
            (5) the term ``governmental entity'' means a State or local 
        government;
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Commerce; 
        and
            (7) the term ``semiconductor'' has the meaning given the 
        term by the Secretary.
    (b) Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish in the 
        Department of Commerce a program that, in accordance with the 
        requirements of this section, provides grants to covered 
        entities.
            (2) Procedure.--
                    (A) In general.--A covered entity shall submit to 
                the Secretary an application that describes the project 
                for which the covered entity is seeking a grant under 
                this section.
                    (B) Eligibility.--In order for a covered entity to 
                qualify for a grant under this section, the covered 
                entity shall demonstrate to the Secretary, in the 
                application submitted by the covered entity under 
                subparagraph (A), that--
                            (i) the covered entity has a documented 
                        interest in constructing, expanding, or 
                        modernizing a facility described in subsection 
                        (a)(2); and
                            (ii) with respect to the project described 
                        in clause (i), the covered entity has--
                                    (I) been offered a covered 
                                incentive;
                                    (II) made commitments to worker and 
                                community investment, including 
                                through--
                                            (aa) training and education 
                                        benefits paid by the covered 
                                        entity; and
                                            (bb) programs to expand 
                                        employment opportunity for 
                                        economically disadvantaged 
                                        individuals; and
                                    (III) secured commitments from 
                                regional educational and training 
                                entities and institutions of higher 
                                education to provide workforce 
                                training, including programming for 
                                training and job placement of 
                                economically disadvantaged individuals.
                    (C) Considerations for review.--With respect to the 
                review by the Secretary of an application submitted by 
                a covered entity under subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) the Secretary may not approve the 
                        application unless the Secretary--
                                    (I) confirms that the covered 
                                entity has satisfied the eligibility 
                                criteria under subparagraph (B); and
                                    (II) determines that the project to 
                                which the application relates is in the 
                                interest of the United States; and
                            (ii) the Secretary may consider whether--
                                    (I) the covered entity has 
                                previously received a grant made under 
                                this subsection; and
                                    (II) the governmental entity 
                                offering the applicable covered 
                                incentive has benefitted from a grant 
                                previously made under this subsection.
            (3) Amount.--The amount of a grant made by the Secretary to 
        a covered entity under this subsection shall be in an amount 
        that is not more than $3,000,000,000.
            (4) Use of funds.--A covered entity that receives a grant 
        under this subsection may only use the grant amounts to--
                    (A) finance the construction, expansion, or 
                modernization of a facility described in subsection 
                (a)(2), as documented in the application submitted by 
                the covered entity under paragraph (2)(A), or for 
                similar uses in state of practice and legacy 
                facilities, as determined necessary by the Secretary 
                for purposes relating to the national security and 
                economic competitiveness of the United States;
                    (B) support workforce development for the facility 
                described in subparagraph (A); or
                    (C) support site development for the facility 
                described in subparagraph (A).
            (5) Clawback.--The Secretary shall recover the full amount 
        of a grant provided to a covered entity under this subsection 
        if--
                    (A) as of the date that is 5 years after the date 
                on which the Secretary makes the grant, the project to 
                which the grant relates has not been completed, except 
                that the Secretary may issue a waiver with respect to 
                the requirement under this subparagraph if the 
                Secretary determines that issuing such a waiver is 
                appropriate and in the interests of the United States; 
                or
                    (B) during the applicable term with respect to the 
                grant, the covered entity engages in any joint research 
                or technology licensing effort--
                            (i) with the Government of the People's 
                        Republic of China, the Government of the 
                        Russian Federation, the Government of Iran, the 
                        Government of North Korea, or another foreign 
                        adversary; and
                            (ii) that relates to a sensitive technology 
                        or product, as determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Consultation and Coordination Required.--In carrying out the 
program established under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consult 
and coordinate with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
Defense.
    (d) GAO Reviews.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall--
            (1) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, and biennially thereafter until the date that is 10 
        years after that date of enactment, conduct a review of the 
        program established under subsection (b), which shall include, 
        at a minimum--
                    (A) a determination of the number of instances in 
                which grants were provided under that subsection during 
                the period covered by the review in violation of a 
                requirement of this section;
                    (B) an evaluation of how--
                            (i) the program is being carried out, 
                        including how recipients of grants are being 
                        selected under the program; and
                            (ii) other Federal programs are leveraged 
                        for manufacturing, research, and training to 
                        complement the grants awarded under the 
                        program; and
                    (C) a description of the outcomes of projects 
                supported by grants made under the program, including a 
                description of--
                            (i) facilities described in subsection 
                        (a)(2) that were constructed, expanded, or 
                        modernized as a result of grants made under the 
                        program;
                            (ii) research and development carried out 
                        with grants made under the program; and
                            (iii) workforce training programs carried 
                        out with grants made under the program, 
                        including efforts to hire individuals from 
                        disadvantaged populations; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress the 
        results of each review conducted under paragraph (1).

SEC. 1095. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Department of Defense Efforts.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, 
        work with the private sector through a public-private 
        partnership, including by incentivizing the formation of a 
        consortium of United States companies, to ensure the 
        development and production of advanced, measurably secure 
        microelectronics for use by the Department of Defense, the 
        intelligence community, critical infrastructure sectors, and 
        other national security applications. Such work may include 
        providing incentives for the creation, expansion, or 
        modernization of one or more commercially competitive and 
        sustainable microelectronics manufacturing or advanced research 
        and development facilities.
            (2) Risk mitigation requirements.--A participant in a 
        consortium formed with incentives under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) have the potential to perform fabrication, 
                assembly, package, or test functions for 
                microelectronics deemed critical to national security 
                as defined by export control regulatory agencies in 
                consultation with the National Security Adviser and the 
                Secretary of Defense;
                    (B) include management processes to identify and 
                mitigate supply chain security risks; and
                    (C) be able to produce microelectronics consistent 
                with applicable measurably secure supply chain and 
                operational security standards established under 
                section 224(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
                Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92).
            (3) National security considerations.--The Secretary of 
        Defense and the Director of National Intelligence shall select 
        participants for the consortium formed with incentives under 
        paragraph (1). In selecting such participants, the Secretary 
        and the Director may jointly consider whether the United States 
        companies--
                    (A) have participated in previous programs and 
                projects of the Department of Defense, Department of 
                Energy, or the intelligence community, including--
                            (i) the Trusted Integrated Circuit program 
                        of the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects 
                        Activity;
                            (ii) trusted and assured microelectronics 
                        projects, as administered by the Department of 
                        Defense;
                            (iii) the Electronics Resurgence Initiative 
                        (ERI) program of the Defense Advanced Research 
                        Projects Agency; or
                            (iv) relevant semiconductor research 
                        programs of Advanced Research Projects Agency-
                        Energy;
                    (B) have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to 
                performing contracts for the Department of Defense and 
                the intelligence community;
                    (C) are approved by the Defense Counterintelligence 
                and Security Agency or the Office of the Director of 
                National Intelligence as presenting an acceptable 
                security risk, taking into account supply chain 
                assurance vulnerabilities, counterintelligence risks, 
                and any risks presented by companies whose owners are 
                located outside the United States; and
                    (D) are evaluated periodically for foreign 
                ownership, control, or influence by foreign 
                adversaries.
            (4) Nontraditional defense contractors and commercial 
        entities.--Arrangements entered into to carry out paragraph (1) 
        shall be in such form as the Secretary of Defense determines 
        appropriate to encourage industry participation of 
        nontraditional defense contractors or commercial entities and 
        may include a contract, a grant, a cooperative agreement, a 
        commercial agreement, the use of other transaction authority 
        under section 2371 of title 10, United States Code, or another 
        such arrangement.
            (5) Discharge.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
        paragraph (1) jointly through the Office of the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Research and Engineering and the Office of the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, or 
        such other component of the Department of Defense as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
            (6) Other initiatives.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        dedicate initiatives within the Department of Defense to 
        advance radio frequency, mixed signal, radiation tolerant, and 
        radiation hardened microelectronics that support national 
        security and dual-use applications.
            (7) Reports.--
                    (A) Report by secretary of defense.--Not later than 
                90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
                the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
                report on the plans of the Secretary to carry out 
                paragraph (1).
                    (B) Biennial reports by comptroller general of the 
                united states.--Not later than 1 year after the date on 
                which the Secretary submits the report required by 
                subparagraph (A) and not less frequently than once 
                every 2 years thereafter for a period of 10 years, the 
                Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
                to Congress a report on the activities carried out 
                under this subsection.
    (b) Defense Production Act of 1950 Efforts.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to 
        Congress a report on a plan for use by the Department of 
        Defense of authorities available in title III of the Defense 
        Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4531 et seq.) to establish 
        and enhance a domestic production capability for 
        microelectronics technologies and related technologies, subject 
        to the availability of appropriations for that purpose.
            (2) Consultation.--The President shall develop the plan 
        required by paragraph (1) in coordination with the Secretary of 
        Defense, and in consultation with the Secretary of State, the 
        Secretary of Commerce, and appropriate stakeholders in the 
        private sector.

SEC. 1096. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE STUDY ON STATUS OF MICROELECTRONICS 
              TECHNOLOGIES IN THE UNITED STATES INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    (a) In General.--Commencing not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Defense and the heads of other appropriate Federal departments and 
agencies, shall undertake a review, which shall include a survey, using 
authorities in section 705 of the Defense Production Act (50 U.S.C. 
4555), to assess the capabilities of the United States industrial base 
to support the national defense in light of the global nature of the 
supply chain and significant interdependencies between the United 
States industrial base and the industrial base of foreign countries 
with respect to the manufacture, design, and end use of 
microelectronics.
    (b) Response to Survey.--The Secretary shall ensure compliance with 
the survey from among all relevant potential respondents, including the 
following:
            (1) Corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other 
        organized groups domiciled and with substantial operations in 
        the United States.
            (2) Corporations, partnerships, associations, or any other 
        organized groups domiciled in the United States with operations 
        outside the United States.
            (3) Foreign domiciled corporations, partnerships, 
        associations, or any other organized groups with substantial 
        operations or business presence in, or substantial revenues 
        derived from, the United States.
            (4) Foreign domiciled corporations, partnerships, 
        associations, or any other organized groups in defense treaty 
        or assistance countries where the production of the entity 
        concerned involves critical technologies covered by section 2.
    (c) Information Requested.--The information sought from a 
responding entity pursuant to the survey required by subsection (a) 
shall include, at minimum, information on the following with respect to 
the manufacture. design, or end use of microelectronics by such entity:
            (1) An identification of the geographic scope of 
        operations.
            (2) Information on relevant cost structures.
            (3) An identification of types of microelectronics 
        development, manufacture, assembly, test, and packaging 
        equipment in operation at such entity.
            (4) An identification of all relevant intellectual 
        property, raw materials, and semi-finished goods and components 
        sourced domestically and abroad by such entity.
            (5) Specifications of the microelectronics manufactured or 
        designed by such entity, descriptions of the end-uses of such 
        microelectronics, and a description of any technical support 
        provided to end-users of such microelectronics by such entity.
            (6) Information on domestic and export market sales by such 
        entity.
            (7) Information on the financial performance, including 
        income and expenditures, of such entity.
            (8) A list of all foreign and domestic subsidies, and any 
        other financial incentives, received by such entity in each 
        market in which such entity operates.
            (9) A list of information requests from the People's 
        Republic of China to such entity, and a description of the 
        nature of each request and the type of information provided.
            (10) Information on any joint ventures, technology 
        licensing agreements, and cooperative research or production 
        arrangements of such entity.
            (11) A description of efforts by such entity to evaluate 
        and control supply chain risks it faces.
            (12) A list and description of any sales, licensing 
        agreements, or partnerships between such entity and the 
        People's Liberation Army or People's Armed Police, including 
        any business relationships with entities through which such 
        sales, licensing agreements, or partnerships may occur.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Commerce shall, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security, and the heads of other appropriate Federal 
        departments and agencies, submit to Congress a report on the 
        results of the review required by subsection (a). The report 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the results of the survey.
                    (B) A list of critical technology areas impacted by 
                potential disruptions in production of 
                microelectronics, and a detailed description and 
                assessment of the impact of such potential disruptions 
                on such areas.
                    (C) A description and assessment of gaps and 
                vulnerabilities in the microelectronics supply chain 
                and the national industrial supply base.
            (2) Form.-- The report required by paragraph (1) may be 
        submitted in classified form.

SEC. 1097. FUNDING FOR DEVELOPMENT AND ADOPTION OF MEASURABLY SECURE 
              MICROELECTRONICS AND MEASURABLY SECURE MICROELECTRONICS 
              SUPPLY CHAINS.

    (a) Multilateral Microelectronics Security Fund.--
            (1) Establishment of fund.--There is established in the 
        Treasury of the United States a trust fund, to be known as the 
        ``Multilateral Microelectronics Security Fund'' (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Fund''), consisting of such 
        amounts as may be appropriated to such Fund and any amounts 
        that may be credited to the Fund under paragraph (2).
            (2) Investment of amounts.--
                    (A) Investment of amounts.--The Secretary of the 
                Treasury shall invest such portion of the Fund as is 
                not required to meet current withdrawals in interest-
                bearing obligations of the United States or in 
                obligations guaranteed as to both principal and 
                interest by the United States.
                    (B) Interest and proceeds.--The interest on, and 
                the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any 
                obligations held in the Fund shall be credited to and 
                form a part of the Fund.
            (3) Use of fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
                amounts in the Fund shall be available, as provided in 
                advance in an appropriations Act, to the Secretary of 
                State--
                            (i) to provide funding through the common 
                        funding mechanism described in subsection 
                        (b)(1) to support the development and adoption 
                        of measurably secure microelectronics and 
                        measurably secure microelectronics supply 
                        chains; and
                            (ii) to otherwise carry out this section.
                    (B) Availability contingent on international 
                agreement.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available to 
                the Secretary of State on and after the date on which 
                the Secretary enters into an agreement with the 
                governments of countries that are partners of the 
                United States to participate in the common funding 
                mechanism under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) and the 
                commitments described in paragraph (2) of that 
                subsection.
            (4) Availability of amounts.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts in the Fund shall remain 
                available through the end of the tenth fiscal year 
                beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Remainder to treasury.--Any amounts remaining 
                in the Fund after the end of the fiscal year described 
                in subparagraph (A) shall be deposited in the general 
                fund of the Treasury.
    (b) Common Funding Mechanism for Development and Adoption of 
Measurably Secure Microelectronics and Measurably Secure 
Microelectronics Supply Chains.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Defense, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        and the Director of National Intelligence, shall seek to 
        establish a common funding mechanism, in coordination with the 
        governments of countries that are partners of the United 
        States, that uses amounts from the Fund, and amounts committed 
        by such governments, to support the development and adoption of 
        secure microelectronics and secure microelectronics supply 
        chains, including for use in research and development 
        collaborations among countries participating in the common 
        funding mechanism.
            (2) Mutual commitments.--The Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the United States Trade Representative, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Commerce, shall 
        seek to negotiate a set of mutual commitments with the 
        governments of countries that are partners of the United States 
        upon which to condition any expenditure of funds pursuant to 
        the common funding mechanism described in paragraph (1). Such 
        commitments shall, at a minimum--
                    (A) establish transparency requirements for any 
                subsidies or other financial benefits (including 
                revenue foregone) provided to microelectronics firms 
                located in or outside such countries;
                    (B) establish consistent policies with respect to 
                countries that--
                            (i) are not participating in the common 
                        funding mechanism; and
                            (ii) do not meet transparency requirements 
                        established under subparagraph (A);
                    (C) promote harmonized treatment of 
                microelectronics and verification processes for items 
                being exported to a country considered a national 
                security risk by a country participating in the common 
                funding mechanism;
                    (D) establish consistent policies and common 
                external policies to address nonmarket economies as the 
                behavior of such countries pertains to 
                microelectronics;
                    (E) align policies on supply chain integrity and 
                microelectronics security, including with respect to 
                protection and enforcement of intellectual property 
                rights; and
                    (F) promote harmonized foreign direct investment 
                screening measures with respect to microelectronics to 
                align with national and multilateral security 
                priorities.
    (c) Annual Report to Congress.--Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for each 
fiscal year during which amounts in the Fund are available under 
subsection (a)(4), the Secretary of State shall submit to Congress a 
report on the status of the implementation of this section that 
includes a description of--
            (1) any commitments made by the governments of countries 
        that are partners of the United States to providing funding for 
        the common funding mechanism described in subsection (b)(1) and 
        the specific amount so committed;
            (2) the criteria established for expenditure of funds 
        through the common funding mechanism;
            (3) how, and to whom, amounts have been expended from the 
        Fund;
            (4) amounts remaining in the Fund;
            (5) the progress of the Secretary of State toward entering 
        into an agreement with the governments of countries that are 
        partners of the United States to participate in the common 
        funding mechanism and the commitments described in subsection 
        (b)(2); and
            (6) any additional authorities needed to enhance the 
        effectiveness of the Fund in achieving the security goals of 
        the United States.

SEC. 1098. ADVANCED SEMICONDUCTOR RESEARCH AND DESIGN.

    (a) Appropriate Committees of Congress.-- In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Appropriations, 
        the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Science, Space, and Technology, the Committee on Financial 
        Services, and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
        of Representatives.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
leadership of the United States in semiconductor technology and 
innovation is critical to the economic growth and national security of 
the United States.
    (c) Subcommittee on Semiconductor Leadership.--
            (1) Establishment required.--The President shall establish 
        in the National Science and Technology Council a subcommittee 
        on matters relating to leadership of the United States in 
        semiconductor technology and innovation.
            (2) Duties.--The duties of the subcommittee established 
        under paragraph (1) are as follows:
                    (A) National strategy on semiconductor research.--
                            (i) Development.--In coordination with the 
                        Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, 
                        the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
                        Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
                        the Director of the National Science 
                        Foundation, and the Director of the National 
                        Institute of Standards and Technology and in 
                        consultation with the semiconductor industry 
                        and academia, develop a national strategy on 
                        semiconductor research, development, 
                        manufacturing, and supply chain security, 
                        including guidance for the funding of research, 
                        and strengthening of the domestic 
                        microelectronics workforce.
                            (ii) Reporting and updates.--Not less 
                        frequently than once every 5 years, to update 
                        the strategy developed under clause (i) and to 
                        submit the revised strategy to the appropriate 
                        committees of Congress.
                            (iii) Implementation.--In coordination with 
                        the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
                        Energy, the Secretary of State, the Secretary 
                        of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland 
                        Security, the Director of the National Science 
                        Foundation, and the Director of the National 
                        Institute of Standards and Technology, on an 
                        annual basis coordinate and recommend each 
                        agency's semiconductor related research and 
                        development programs and budgets to ensure 
                        consistency with the National Semiconductor 
                        Strategy.
                    (B) Fostering coordination of research and 
                development.--To foster the coordination of 
                semiconductor research and development.
            (3) Sunset.--The subcommittee established under paragraph 
        (1) shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Industrial Advisory Committee.--The President shall establish a 
standing subcommittee of the President's Council of Advisors on Science 
and Technology to advise the United States Government on matters 
relating to microelectronics policy.
    (e) National Semiconductor Technology Center.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
        establish a national semiconductor technology center to conduct 
        research and prototyping of advanced semiconductor technology 
        to strengthen the economic competitiveness and security of the 
        domestic supply chain, which will be operated as a public 
        private-sector consortium with participation from the private 
        sector, the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, 
        the Department of Homeland Security, the National Science 
        Foundation, and the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology
            (2) Functions.--The functions of the center established 
        under paragraph (1) shall be as follows:
                    (A) To conduct advanced semiconductor 
                manufacturing, design research and prototyping that 
                strengthens the entire domestic ecosystem and is 
                aligned with the National Strategy on Semiconductor 
                Research.
                    (B) To establish a National Advanced Packaging 
                Manufacturing Program led by the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology, in coordination with the 
                Center, to strengthen semiconductor advanced test, 
                assembly, and packaging capability in the domestic 
                ecosystem, and which shall coordinate with the 
                Manufacturing USA institute established under paragraph 
                (4).
                    (C) To establish an investment fund, in partnership 
                with the private sector, to support startups in the 
                domestic semiconductor ecosystem.
                    (D) To establish a Semiconductor Manufacturing 
                Program through the Director of the National Institute 
                of Standards and Technology to enable advances and 
                breakthroughs in measurement science, standards, 
                material characterization, instrumentation, testing, 
                and manufacturing capabilities that will accelerate the 
                underlying research and development for metrology of 
                next generation semiconductors and ensure the 
                competitiveness and leadership of the United States 
                within this sector.
                    (E) To work with the Secretary of Labor, the 
                private sector, educational institutions, and workforce 
                training entities to develop workforce training 
                programs and apprenticeships in advanced 
                microelectronic packaging capabilities.
            (3) Components.--The fund established under paragraph 
        (2)(C) shall cover the following:
                    (A) Advanced metrology and characterization for 
                manufacturing of microchips using 3 nanometer 
                transistor processes or more advanced processes.
                    (B) Metrology for security and supply chain 
                verification.
            (4) Creation of a manufacturing usa institute.--The fund 
        established under paragraph (2)(C) may also cover the creation 
        of a Manufacturing USA institute described in section 34(d) of 
        the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 
        U.S.C. 278s(d)) that is focused on semiconductor manufacturing. 
        Such institute may emphasize the following:
                    (A) Research to support the virtualization and 
                automation of maintenance of semiconductor machinery.
                    (B) Development of new advanced test, assembly and 
                packaging capabilities.
                    (C) Developing and deploying educational and skills 
                training curricula needed to support the industry 
                sector and ensure the U.S. can build and maintain a 
                trusted and predictable talent pipeline.
    (f) Domestic Production Requirements.--The head of any executive 
agency receiving funding under this section shall develop policies to 
require domestic production, to the extent possible, for any 
intellectual property resulting from microelectronics research and 
development conducted as a result of these funds and domestic control 
requirements to protect any such intellectual property from foreign 
adversaries.

SEC. 1099. PROHIBITION RELATING TO FOREIGN ADVERSARIES.

    None of the funds appropriated pursuant to an authorization in this 
subtitle may be provided to an entity--
            (1) under the foreign ownership, control, or influence of 
        the Government of the People's Republic of China or the Chinese 
        Communist Party, or other foreign adversary (as defined in 
        section 1091(a)(4)); or
            (2) determined to have beneficial ownership from foreign 
        individuals subject to the jurisdiction, direction, or 
        influence of foreign adversaries (as so defined).

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

               Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters

SEC. 1101. ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN ACQUISITION AND 
              TECHNOLOGY POSITIONS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 87 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1701a the following 
new section:
``Sec. 1701b. Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and 
              technology positions
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program 
using the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of 
basic pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist 
the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the military departments in 
attracting and retaining high-quality acquisition and technology 
experts in positions responsible for managing and developing complex, 
high-cost, technological acquisition efforts of the Department of 
Defense.
    ``(b) Approval Required.--The program may be carried out only with 
approval as follows:
            ``(1) Approval of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment, in the case of positions in the 
        Office of the Secretary of Defense.
            ``(2) Approval of the service acquisition executive of the 
        military department concerned, in the case of positions in a 
        military department.
    ``(c) Positions.--The positions described in this subsection are 
positions that--
            ``(1) require expertise of an extremely high level in a 
        scientific, technical, professional, or acquisition management 
        field; and
            ``(2) are critical to the successful accomplishment of an 
        important acquisition or technology development mission.
    ``(d) Rate of Basic Pay.--The pay authority specified in this 
subsection is authority as follows:
            ``(1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position 
        at a rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay 
        payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the 
        approval of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment or the service acquisition executive concerned, as 
        applicable.
            ``(2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position 
        at a rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay 
        payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the 
        approval of the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(e) Limitations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The authority in subsection (a) may be 
        used only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or 
        retain individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions 
        described in subsection (c).
            ``(2) Number of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) 
        may not be used with respect to more than five positions in the 
        Office of the Secretary of Defense and more than five positions 
        in each military department at any one time.
            ``(3) Term of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) 
        may be used only for positions having terms less than five 
        years.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter I of chapter 87 of such title is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 1701a the following new item:

``1701b. Enhanced pay authority for certain acquisition and technology 
                            positions.''.
    (c) Repeal of Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1111 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
        repealed.
            (2) Continuation of pay.--The repeal in paragraph (1) shall 
        not be interpreted to prohibit the payment of basic pay at 
        rates fixed under such section 1111 before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act for positions having terms that continue 
        after that date.

SEC. 1102. ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY 
              POSITIONS IN THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION 
              LABORATORIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2358b the following new section:
``Sec. 2358c. Enhanced pay authority for certain research and 
              technology positions in science and technology 
              reinvention laboratories
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program 
using the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of 
basic pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist 
the military departments in attracting and retaining high quality 
acquisition and technology experts in positions responsible for 
managing and performing complex, high-cost research and technology 
development efforts in the science and technology reinvention 
laboratories of the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Approval Required.--The program may be carried out in a 
military department only with the approval of the service acquisition 
executive of the military department concerned.
    ``(c) Positions.--The positions described in this subsection are 
positions in the science and technology reinvention laboratories of the 
Department of Defense that--
            ``(1) require expertise of an extremely high level in a 
        scientific, technical, professional, or acquisition management 
        field; and
            ``(2) are critical to the successful accomplishment of an 
        important research or technology development mission.
    ``(d) Rate of Basic Pay.--The pay authority specified in this 
subsection is authority as follows:
            ``(1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position 
        at a rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay 
        payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the 
        approval of the service acquisition executive concerned.
            ``(2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position 
        at a rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay 
        payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the 
        approval of the Secretary of the military department concerned.
    ``(e) Limitations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The authority in subsection (a) may be 
        used only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or 
        retain individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions 
        described in subsection (c).
            ``(2) Number of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) 
        may not be used with respect to more than five positions in 
        each military department at any one time.
            ``(3) Term of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) 
        may be used only for positions having a term of less than five 
        years.
    ``(f) Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratories of the 
Department of Defense Defined.--In this section, the term `science and 
technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense' means 
the laboratories designated as science and technology reinvention 
laboratories by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2358b the following new item:

``2358c. Enhanced pay authority for certain research and technology 
                            positions in science and technology 
                            reinvention laboratories.''.
    (c) Repeal of Pilot Program.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1124 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 
        Stat. 2456; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is repealed.
            (2) Continuation of pay.--The repeal in paragraph (1) shall 
        not be interpreted to prohibit the payment of basic pay at 
        rates fixed under such section 1124 before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act for positions having terms that continue 
        after that date.

SEC. 1103. EXTENSION OF ENHANCED APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION AUTHORITY 
              FOR CIVILIAN PERSONNEL FOR CARE AND TREATMENT OF WOUNDED 
              AND INJURED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 1599c(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' both places it appears and inserting 
``December 31, 2025''.

SEC. 1104. EXTENSION OF OVERTIME RATE AUTHORITY FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE 
              NAVY EMPLOYEES PERFORMING WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN 
              SUPPORT OF THE NUCLEAR-POWERED AIRCRAFT CARRIER FORWARD 
              DEPLOYED IN JAPAN.

    Section 5542(a)(6)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2021'' and inserting ``September 30, 2023''.

SEC. 1105. EXPANSION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE PERSONNEL TO INCLUDE INSTALLATION MILITARY 
              HOUSING OFFICE POSITIONS SUPERVISING PRIVATIZED MILITARY 
              HOUSING.

    Section 9905(a) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(11) Any position in the military housing office of a 
        military installation whose primary function is supervision of 
        military housing covered by subchapter IV of chapter 169 of 
        title 10.''.

SEC. 1106. EXTENSION OF SUNSET OF INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTIFICATION OF 
              EXECUTIVE QUALIFICATIONS BY QUALIFICATION CERTIFICATION 
              REVIEW BOARD OF OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT FOR 
              INITIAL APPOINTMENTS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE 
              POSITIONS IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    Section 1109(e) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2010; 5 U.S.C. 3393 note) is amended by striking ``on the date'' and 
all that follows and inserting ``on August 13, 2023.''

SEC. 1107. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN HIGH-
              LEVEL MANAGEMENT POSITIONS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using 
the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic 
pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist the 
Department of Defense in attracting and retaining personnel with 
significant experience in high-level management of complex 
organizations and enterprise functions in order to lead implementation 
by the Department of the National Defense Strategy.
    (b) Approval Required.--The pilot program may be carried out only 
with approval as follows:
            (1) Approval of the Deputy Secretary of Defense, in the 
        case of a position not under the authority, direction, and 
        control of an Under Secretary of Defense and not under the 
        authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of a 
        military department.
            (2) Approval of the applicable Under Secretary of Defense, 
        in the case of a position under the authority, direction, and 
        control of an Under Secretary of Defense.
            (3) Approval of the Under Secretary or an Assistant 
        Secretary of the military department concerned, in the case of 
        a position in a military department.
    (c) Positions.--The positions described in this subsection are 
positions that require expertise of an extremely high level in 
innovative leadership and management of enterprise-wide business 
operations, including financial management, health care, supply chain 
and logistics, information technology, real property stewardship, and 
human resources, across a large and complex organization.
    (d) Rate of Basic Pay.--The pay authority specified in this 
subsection is authority as follows:
            (1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position 
        at a rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay 
        payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the 
        approval of the applicable official under subsection (b).
            (2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position 
        at a rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay 
        payable for level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the 
        approval of the Secretary of Defense.
    (e) Limitations.--
            (1) In general.--The authority in subsection (a) may be 
        used only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or 
        retain individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions 
        described in subsection (c).
            (2) Number of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) 
        may not be used with respect to--
                    (A) more than 10 positions in the Office of the 
                Secretary of Defense and components of the Department 
                of Defense other than the military departments at any 
                one time; and
                    (B) more than five positions in each military 
                department at any one time.
            (3) Term of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) may 
        be used only for positions having terms less than five years.
            (4) Past service.--An individual may not be appointed to a 
        position pursuant to the authority provided by subsection (a) 
        if the individual separated or retired from Federal civil 
        service or service as a commissioned officer of an Armed Force 
        on a date that is less than five years before the date of such 
        appointment of the individual.
    (f) Termination.--
            (1) In general.--The authority to fix rates of basic pay 
        for a position under this section shall terminate on October 1, 
        2025.
            (2) Continuation of pay.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be 
        construed to prohibit the payment after October 1, 2025, of 
        basic pay at rates fixed under this section before that date 
        for positions whose terms continue after that date.

SEC. 1108. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANDED AUTHORITY FOR APPOINTMENT OF 
              RECENTLY RETIRED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO POSITIONS 
              IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry 
out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of 
expanding the use of the authority in section 3326 of title 5, United 
States Code, to appoint retired members of the Armed Forces described 
in subsection (b) of that section to positions in the Department of 
Defense described in subsection (b) of this section.
    (b) Positions.--
            (1) In general.--The positions in the Department described 
        in this subsection are positions classified at or below GS-13 
        under the General Schedule under subchapter III of chapter 53 
        of title 5, United States Code, or an equivalent level under 
        another wage system, in the competitive service--
                    (A) to which appointments are authorized using 
                Direct Hire Authority or Expedited Hiring Authority; 
                and
                    (B) that have been certified by the Secretary of 
                the military department concerned as lacking sufficient 
                numbers of potential applicants who are not retired 
                members of the Armed Forces.
            (2) Limitation on delegation of certification.--The 
        Secretary of a military department may not delegate the 
        authority to make a certification described in paragraph (1)(B) 
        to an individual in a grade lower than colonel, captain in the 
        Navy, or an equivalent grade in the Space Force, or an 
        individual with an equivalent civilian grade.
    (c) Duration.--The duration of the pilot program shall be three 
years.
    (d) Report.--Not later than two years after the commencement of the 
pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program. The 
report shall include the following:
            (1) A description of the pilot program, including the 
        positions to which appointments are authorized to be made under 
        the pilot program and the number of retired members appointed 
        to each such position under the pilot program.
            (2) Any other matters in connection with the pilot program 
        that the Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 1109. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY AND RELOCATION INCENTIVES FOR 
              POSITIONS AT REMOTE LOCATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1599i. Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for 
              positions at remote locations
    ``(a) Direct Hire Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may appoint, 
        without regard to any provision of subchapter I of chapter 33 
        of title 5, qualified applicants to positions in the 
        competitive service to fill vacancies at covered locations.
            ``(2) Covered locations.--For purposes of this section, a 
        covered location is a location for which the Secretary has 
        determined that critical hiring needs are not being met due to 
        the geographic remoteness or isolation or extreme climate 
        conditions of the location.
    ``(b) Relocation Incentives.--
            ``(1) In general.--An individual appointed to a position 
        pursuant to subsection (a) may be paid a relocation incentive 
        in connection with the relocation of the individual to the 
        location of the position.
            ``(2) Amount.--The amount of a relocation incentive payable 
        to an individual under this subsection may not exceed the 
        amount equal to--
                    ``(A) 25 percent of the annual rate of basic pay of 
                the employee for the position concerned as of the date 
                on which the service period in such position agreed to 
                by the individual under paragraph (3) commences; 
                multiplied by
                    ``(B) the number of years (including fractions of a 
                year) of such service period (not to exceed four 
                years).
            ``(3) Service agreement.--To receive a relocation incentive 
        under this subsection, an individual appointed to a position 
        under subsection (a) shall enter into an agreement with the 
        Secretary of Defense to complete a period of service at the 
        covered location. The period of obligated service of the 
        individual at such location under the agreement may not exceed 
        four years. The agreement shall include such repayment or 
        alternative employment obligations as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for failure of the individual to complete the 
        period of obligated service specified in the agreement.
            ``(4) Relationship to other relocation pay.--A relocation 
        incentive paid to an individual for a relocation under this 
        subsection is in addition to any other relocation incentive or 
        payment payable to the individual for such relocation by law.
    ``(c) Sunset.--Effective on September 30, 2022, the authority 
provided under subsection (a) and the authority to provide relocation 
incentives under subsection (b) shall expire.''.
    (b) Outcome Measurements.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
outcome measurements to evaluate the effect of the authority provided 
under subsection (a) of section 1599i of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), and any relocation incentives provided 
under subsection (b) of such section.
    (c) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2022, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the effect of the authority provided 
        under subsection (a) of section 1599i of title 10, United 
        States Code, as added by subsection (a), and any relocation 
        incentives provided under subsection (b) of such section.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description and assessment of the 
                effectiveness and achievements of the authority and 
                relocation incentives described in paragraph (1), 
                including--
                            (i) the number of employees hired to 
                        covered locations described in section 
                        1599i(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, as 
                        added by subsection (a); and
                            (ii) the cost-per-placement of such 
                        employees.
                    (B) A comparison of the effectiveness and use of 
                the authority and relocation incentives described in 
                paragraph (1) to authorities under title 5, United 
                States Code, used by the Department of Defense before 
                the date of the enactment of this Act to support hiring 
                at remote or rural locations.
                    (C) An assessment of--
                            (i) the minority community outreach efforts 
                        made in using the authority and providing 
                        relocation incentives described in paragraph 
                        (1); and
                            (ii) participation outcomes.
                    (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new item:

``1599i. Direct hire authority and relocation incentives for positions 
                            at remote locations.''.

SEC. 1110. MODIFICATION OF DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PERSONNEL 
              INVOLVED WITH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MAINTENANCE 
              ACTIVITIES.

    Section 9905(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``including'' and all that follows and inserting the 
following: ``including--
                    ``(A) depot-level maintenance and repair; and
                    ``(B) support functions for such activities.''.

SEC. 1110A. FIRE FIGHTERS ALTERNATIVE WORK SCHEDULE DEMONSTRATION 
              PROJECT FOR THE NAVY REGION MID-ATLANTIC FIRE AND 
              EMERGENCY SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, shall 
establish and carry out, for a period of not less than five years, a 
Fire Fighters Alternative Work Schedule demonstration project for the 
Navy Region Mid-Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services. Such 
demonstration project shall provide, with respect to each employee of 
the Navy Region Mid-Atlantic Fire and Emergency Services, that--
            (1) assignments to tours of duty are scheduled in advance 
        over periods of not less than two weeks;
            (2) tours of duty are scheduled using a regularly recurring 
        pattern of 48-hour shifts followed by 48 or 72 consecutive non-
        work hours, as determined by mutual agreement between the 
        Commander, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, and the exclusive employee 
        representative at each Navy Region Mid-Atlantic installation, 
        in such a manner that each employee is regularly scheduled for 
        144-hours in any two-week period;
            (3) for any such employee that is a fire fighter working an 
        alternative work schedule, such employee shall earn overtime 
        compensation in a manner consistent with other applicable law 
        and regulation;
            (4) no right shall be established to any form of premium 
        pay, including night, Sunday, holiday, or hazard duty pay; and
            (5) leave accrual and use shall be consistent with other 
        applicable law and regulation.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which the 
demonstration project under this section terminates, the Commander, 
Navy Region Mid-Atlantic, shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
detailing--
            (1) any financial savings or expenses directly and 
        inseparably linked to the demonstration project;
            (2) any intangible quality of life and morale improvements 
        achieved by the demonstration project; and
            (3) any adverse impact of the demonstration project 
        occurring solely as the result of the transition to the 
        demonstration project.

SEC. 1110B. REPORT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ON 
              DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION WITHIN THE CIVILIAN WORKFORCE OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after enactment of this act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a 
report on issues related to diversity and inclusion within the civilian 
workforce of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the demographic composition of the 
        civilian workforce of the Department.
            (2) An assessment of any differences in promotion outcomes 
        among demographic groups of the civilian workforce of the 
        Department.
            (3) An assessment of the extent to which the Department has 
        identified barriers to diversity in its civilian workforce.

                  Subtitle B--Government-Wide Matters

SEC. 1111. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
              ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN 
              PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.

    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
amended by section 1104 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended by striking 
``2021'' and inserting ``2022''.

SEC. 1112. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
              ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR 
              FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.

    Subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1105 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is 
further amended by striking ``through 2020'' and inserting ``through 
2021''.

SEC. 1113. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
              FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL INCOME TAXES INCURRED DURING 
              TRAVEL, TRANSPORTATION, AND RELOCATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 5724b(b) of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``or relocation expenses reimbursed'' and 
        inserting ``and relocation expenses reimbursed''; and
            (2) by striking ``of chapter 41'' and inserting ``or 
        chapter 41''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into 
effect of the amendments made by subsection (a) of section 1114 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 
116-92), as provided for in subsection (c) of such section 1114.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS.

    Section 333(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Cyberspace operations.''.

SEC. 1202. AUTHORITY TO BUILD CAPACITY FOR AIR SOVEREIGNTY OPERATIONS.

    Section 333(a) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
section 1201, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs 
        (8) and (9), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
        paragraph (7):
            ``(7) Air sovereignty operations.''.

SEC. 1203. MODIFICATION TO THE INTER-EUROPEAN AIR FORCES ACADEMY.

    Section 350(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``that are'' and all that follows through the period at the 
end and inserting ``that are--
            ``(1) members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
            ``(2) signatories to the Partnership for Peace Framework 
        Documents; or
            ``(3)(A) within the United States Africa Command area of 
        responsibility; and
            ``(B) eligible for assistance under chapter 5 of part II of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.).''.

SEC. 1204. MODIFICATION TO SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FOR IRREGULAR 
              WARFARE.

    Subsection (a) of section 1202 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1639), as most recently amended by section 1207 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further 
amended by striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.

SEC. 1205. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT BORDER 
              SECURITY OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.

    (a) Funds Available for Support.--Subsection (b) of section 1226 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 
2151 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Funds Available for Support.--Amounts to provide support 
under the authority of subsection (a) may be derived only from amounts 
authorized to be appropriated and available for operation and 
maintenance, Defense-wide.''.
    (b) Extension.--Subsection (h) of such section is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''.

SEC. 1206. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR PARTICIPATION IN MULTINATIONAL 
              CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 344 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``multinational 
        military centers of excellence'' and inserting ``multinational 
        centers of excellence'';
            (2) by striking ``multinational military center of 
        excellence'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``multinational center of excellence'';
            (3) by striking ``multinational military centers of 
        excellence'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``multinational centers of excellence'';
            (4) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``or entered into by 
        the Secretary of State,'' after ``Secretary of State,'';
            (5) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Multinational Military Center of Excellence '' and 
                inserting ``Multinational Center of Excellence'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and moving 
                the subparagraphs two ems to the right;
                    (C) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), as so 
                redesignated, by striking ``means an entity'' and 
                inserting ``means--
            ``(1) an entity'';
                    (D) in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated, by 
                striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
                and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(2) the European Centre of Excellence for Countering 
        Hybrid Threats, established in 2017 and located in Helsinki, 
        Finland.'';
            (6) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
            (7) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Notification.--Not later than 30 days before the date on 
which the Secretary of Defense authorizes participation under 
subsection (a) in a new multinational center of excellence, the 
Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of such 
participation.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended, in the table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of 
chapter 16, by striking the item relating to section 344 and inserting 
the following:

``344. Participation in multinational centers of excellence.''.

SEC. 1207. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WOMEN, PEACE, AND SECURITY ACT OF 
              2017.

    (a) In General.--During the period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 2025, the Secretary 
of Defense shall undertake activities consistent with the Women, Peace, 
and Security Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-68; 131 Stat. 1202) and with 
the guidance specified in this section, including--
            (1) establishing Department of Defense-wide policies and 
        programs that advance the implementation of that Act, including 
        military doctrine and Department-specific and combatant 
        command-specific programs;
            (2) ensuring the Department sufficient personnel to serve 
        as gender advisors, including by hiring and training full-time 
        equivalent personnel, as necessary, and establishing roles, 
        responsibilities, and requirements for gender advisors;
            (3) the deliberate integration of gender analysis into 
        relevant training for members of the Armed Forces across ranks, 
        as described in the Women's Entrepreneurship and Economic 
        Empowerment Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-428; 132 Stat. 5509); 
        and
            (4) security cooperation activities that further the 
        implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 
        (Public Law 115-68; 131 Stat. 1202).
    (b) Building Partner Defense Institution and Security Force 
Capacity.--
            (1) Incorporation of gender analysis and participation of 
        women into security cooperation activities.--Consistent with 
        the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-68; 
        131 Stat. 1202), the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
        the Secretary of State, shall seek to incorporate gender 
        analysis and participation by women, as appropriate, into the 
        institutional and national security force capacity-building 
        activities of security cooperation programs carried out under 
        title 10, United States Code, including by--
                    (A) incorporating gender analysis and women, peace, 
                and security priorities, including sex-disaggregated 
                data, into educational and training materials and 
                programs authorized by section 333 of title 10, United 
                States Code;
                    (B) advising on the recruitment, employment, 
                development, retention, and promotion of women in such 
                national security forces, including by--
                            (i) identifying existing military career 
                        opportunities for women;
                            (ii) exposing women and girls to careers 
                        available in such national security forces and 
                        the skills necessary for such careers; and
                            (iii) encouraging women's and girls' 
                        interest in such careers by highlighting as 
                        role models women of the United States and 
                        applicable foreign countries in uniform;
                    (C) addressing sexual harassment and abuse against 
                women within such national security forces;
                    (D) integrating gender analysis into security 
                sector policy, planning, and training for such national 
                security forces; and
                    (E) improving infrastructure to address the 
                requirements of women serving in such national security 
                forces, including appropriate equipment for female 
                security and police forces.
            (2) Barriers and opportunities.--Partner country 
        assessments conducted in the course of Department security 
        cooperation activities to build the capacity of the national 
        security forces of foreign countries shall include attention to 
        the barriers and opportunities with respect to strengthening 
        recruitment, employment, development, retention, and promotion 
        of women in the military forces of such partner countries.
    (c) Department-wide Policies on Women, Peace, and Security.--Not 
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall initiate a process to establish standardized 
policies described in subsection (a)(1).
    (d) Funding.--The Secretary of Defense may use funds authorized to 
be appropriated in each fiscal year to the Department of Defense for 
operation and maintenance as specified in the table in section 4301 for 
carrying out the full implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security 
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-68; 131 Stat. 1202) and the guidance on the 
matters described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) and 
subparagraphs (A) through (E) of subsection (b)(1).
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2025, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report on the steps the Department has taken to implement 
the Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (Public Law 115-68; 131 
Stat. 1202), including--
            (1) a description of the progress made on each matter 
        described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) and 
        subparagraphs (A) through (E) of subsection (b)(1); and
            (2) an identification of the amounts used for such 
        purposes.
    (f) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1208. TED STEVENS CENTER FOR ARCTIC SECURITY STUDIES.

    (a) Plan Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a plan to establish a 
        Department of Defense Regional Center for Security Studies for 
        the Arctic.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the benefits of establishing 
                such a center, including the manner in which the 
                establishment of such a center would benefit United 
                States and Department interests in the Arctic region.
                    (B) A description of the mission and purpose of 
                such a center, including specific policy guidance from 
                the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
                    (C) An analysis of suitable reporting relationships 
                with the applicable combatant commands.
                    (D) An assessment of suitable locations for such a 
                center that are--
                            (i) in proximity to other academic 
                        institutions that study security implications 
                        with respect to the Arctic region;
                            (ii) in proximity to the designated lead 
                        for Arctic affairs of the United States 
                        Northern Command;
                            (iii) in proximity to a central hub of 
                        assigned Arctic-focused Armed Forces so as to 
                        suitably advance relevant professional 
                        development of skills unique to the Arctic 
                        region; and
                            (iv) in a State located outside the 
                        contiguous United States.
                    (E) A description of the establishment and 
                operational costs of such a center, including for--
                            (i) military construction for required 
                        facilities;
                            (ii) facility renovation;
                            (iii) personnel costs for faculty and 
                        staff; and
                            (iv) other costs the Secretary of Defense 
                        considers appropriate.
                    (F) An evaluation of the existing infrastructure, 
                resources, and personnel available at military 
                installations and at universities and other academic 
                institutions that could reduce the costs described in 
                accordance with subparagraph (E).
                    (G) An examination of partnership opportunities 
                with United States allies and partners for potential 
                collaboration and burden sharing.
                    (H) A description of potential courses and programs 
                that such a center could carry out, including--
                            (i) core, specialized, and advanced 
                        courses;
                            (ii) planning workshops;
                            (iii) seminars;
                            (iv) confidence-building initiatives; and
                            (v) academic research.
                    (I) A description of any modification to title 10, 
                United States Code, necessary for the effective 
                operation of such a center.
            (3) Form.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Not earlier than 30 days after the 
        submittal of the plan required by subsection (a), and subject 
        to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of Defense 
        may establish and administer a Department of Defense Regional 
        Center for Security Studies for the Arctic, to be known as the 
        ``Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security Studies'', for the 
        purpose described in section 342(a) of title 10, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Location.--The Ted Stevens Center for Arctic Security 
        Studies may be located--
                    (A) in proximity to other academic institutions 
                that study security implications with respect to the 
                Arctic region;
                    (B) in proximity to the designated lead for Arctic 
                affairs of the United States Northern Command;
                    (C) in proximity to a central hub of assigned 
                Arctic-focused Armed Forces so as to suitably advance 
                relevant professional development of skills unique to 
                the Arctic region; and
                    (D) in a State located outside the contiguous 
                United States.

SEC. 1209. FUNCTIONAL CENTER FOR SECURITY STUDIES IN IRREGULAR WARFARE.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report that assesses the 
        merits and feasibility of establishing and administering a 
        Department of Defense Functional Center for Security Studies in 
        Irregular Warfare.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of the benefits to the United 
                States, and the allies and partners of the United 
                States, of establishing such a functional center, 
                including the manner in which the establishment of such 
                a functional center would enhance and sustain focus on, 
                and advance knowledge and understanding of, matters of 
                irregular warfare, including cybersecurity, nonstate 
                actors, information operations, counterterrorism, 
                stability operations, and the hybridization of such 
                matters.
                    (B) A detailed description of the mission and 
                purpose of such a functional center, including 
                applicable policy guidance from the Office of the 
                Secretary of Defense.
                    (C) An analysis of appropriate reporting and 
                liaison relationships between such a functional center 
                and--
                            (i) the geographic and functional combatant 
                        commands;
                            (ii) other Department of Defense 
                        stakeholders; and
                            (iii) other government and nongovernment 
                        entities and organizations.
                    (D) An enumeration and valuation of criteria 
                applicable to the determination of a suitable location 
                for such a functional center.
                    (E) A description of the establishment and 
                operational costs of such a functional center, 
                including for--
                            (i) military construction for required 
                        facilities;
                            (ii) facility renovation;
                            (iii) personnel costs for faculty and 
                        staff; and
                            (iv) other costs the Secretary of Defense 
                        considers appropriate.
                    (F) An evaluation of the existing infrastructure, 
                resources, and personnel available at military 
                installations and at universities and other academic 
                and research institutions that could reduce the costs 
                described in subparagraph (E).
                    (G) An examination of partnership opportunities 
                with United States allies and partners for potential 
                collaboration and burden sharing.
                    (H) A description of potential courses and programs 
                that such a functional center could carry out, 
                including--
                            (i) core, specialized, and advanced 
                        courses;
                            (ii) planning workshops and structured 
                        after-action reviews or debriefs;
                            (iii) seminars;
                            (iv) initiatives on executive development, 
                        relationship building, partnership outreach, 
                        and any other matter the Secretary of Defense 
                        considers appropriate; and
                            (v) focused academic research and studies 
                        in support of Department priorities.
                    (I) A description of any modification to title 10, 
                United States Code, or any other provision of law, 
                necessary for the effective establishment and 
                administration of such a functional center.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Not earlier than 30 days after the 
        submittal of the report required by subsection (a), and subject 
        to the availability of appropriated funds, the Secretary of 
        Defense may establish and administer a Department of Defense 
        Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare.
            (2) Treatment as a regional center for security studies.--A 
        Department of Defense Functional Center for Security Studies in 
        Irregular Warfare established under paragraph (1) shall be 
        operated and administered in the same manner as the Department 
        of Defense Regional Centers for Security Studies under section 
        342 of title 10, United States Code, and in accordance with 
        such regulations as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.
            (3) Limitation.--No other institution or element of the 
        Department may be designated as a Department of Defense 
        functional center, except by an Act of Congress.
            (4) Location.--The location of a Department of Defense 
        Functional Center for Security Studies in Irregular Warfare 
        established under paragraph (1) shall be selected based on an 
        objective, criteria-driven administrative or competitive award 
        process, in accordance with which the merits of locating such 
        functional center in Tempe, Arizona, may be evaluated together 
        with other suitable locations.

SEC. 1210. OPEN TECHNOLOGY FUND.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Open 
Technology Fund Authorization Act''.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The political, economic, and social benefits of the 
        internet are important to advancing democracy and freedom 
        throughout the world.
            (2) Authoritarian governments are investing billions of 
        dollars each year to create, maintain, and expand repressive 
        internet censorship and surveillance systems to limit free 
        association, control access to information, and prevent 
        citizens from exercising their rights to free speech.
            (3) Over \2/3\ of the world's population live in countries 
        in which the internet is restricted. Governments shut down the 
        internet more than 200 times every year.
            (4) Internet censorship and surveillance technology is 
        rapidly being exported around the world, particularly by the 
        Government of the People's Republic of China, enabling 
        widespread abuses by authoritarian governments.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that it is in 
the interest of the United States--
            (1) to promote global internet freedom by countering 
        internet censorship and repressive surveillance;
            (2) to protect the internet as a platform for--
                    (A) the free exchange of ideas;
                    (B) the promotion of human rights and democracy; 
                and
                    (C) the advancement of a free press; and
            (3) to support efforts that prevent the deliberate misuse 
        of the internet to repress individuals from exercising their 
        rights to free speech and association, including countering the 
        use of such technologies by authoritarian regimes.
    (d) Establishment of the Open Technology Fund.--
            (1) In general.--The United States International 
        Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) is amended by 
        inserting after section 309 the following:

``SEC. 309A. OPEN TECHNOLOGY FUND.

    ``(a) Authority.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established a grantee 
        entity, to be known as the `Open Technology Fund', which shall 
        carry out this section.
            ``(2) In general.--Grants authorized under section 305 
        shall be available to award annual grants to the Open 
        Technology fund for the purpose of--
                    ``(A) promoting, consistent with United States law, 
                unrestricted access to uncensored sources of 
                information via the internet; and
                    ``(B) enabling journalists, including journalists 
                employed by or affiliated with the Voice of America, 
                Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Radio Free Asia, the 
                Middle East Broadcasting Networks, the Office of Cuba 
                Broadcasting, or any entity funded by or partnering 
                with the United States Agency for Global Media to 
                create and disseminate news and information consistent 
                with the purposes, standards, and principles specified 
                in sections 302 and 303.
    ``(b) Use of Grant Funds.--The Open Technology Fund shall use grant 
funds received pursuant to subsection (a)(2)--
            ``(1) to advance freedom of the press and unrestricted 
        access to the internet in repressive environments overseas 
        through technology development, rather than through media 
        messaging;
            ``(2) to research, develop, implement, and maintain--
                    ``(A) technologies that circumvent techniques used 
                by authoritarian governments, nonstate actors, and 
                others to block or censor access to the internet, 
                including circumvention tools that bypass internet 
                blocking, filtering, and other censorship techniques 
                used to limit or block legitimate access to content and 
                information; and
                    ``(B) secure communication tools and other forms of 
                privacy and security technology that facilitate the 
                creation and distribution of news and enable audiences 
                to access media content on censored websites;
            ``(3) to advance internet freedom by supporting private and 
        public sector research, development, implementation, and 
        maintenance of technologies that provide secure and uncensored 
        access to the internet to counter attempts by authoritarian 
        governments, nonstate actors, and others to improperly restrict 
        freedom online;
            ``(4) to research and analyze emerging technical threats 
        and develop innovative solutions through collaboration with the 
        private and public sectors to maintain the technological 
        advantage of the United States Government over authoritarian 
        governments, nonstate actors, and others;
            ``(5) to develop, acquire, and distribute requisite 
        internet freedom technologies and techniques for the United 
        States Agency for Global Media, in accordance with paragraph 
        (2), and digital security interventions, to fully enable the 
        creation and distribution of digital content between and to all 
        users and regional audiences;
            ``(6) to prioritize programs for countries, the governments 
        of which restrict freedom of expression on the internet, that 
        are important to the national interest of the United States in 
        accordance with section 7050(b)(2)(C) of the Department of 
        State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations 
        Act, 2020 (division G of Public Law 116-94); and
            ``(7) to carry out any other effort consistent with the 
        purposes of this Act or press freedom overseas if requested or 
        approved by the United States Agency for Global Media.
    ``(c) Methodology.--In carrying out subsection (b), the Open 
Technology Fund shall--
            ``(1)(A) support fully open-source tools, code, and 
        components, to the extent practicable, to ensure such supported 
        tools and technologies are as secure, transparent, and 
        accessible as possible; and
            ``(B) require that any such tools, components, code, or 
        technology supported by the Open Technology Fund remain fully 
        open-source, to the extent practicable;
            ``(2) support technologies that undergo comprehensive 
        security audits to ensure that such technologies are secure and 
        have not been compromised in a manner detrimental to the 
        interests of the United States or to individuals or 
        organizations benefitting from programs supported by the Open 
        Technology Fund;
            ``(3) review and periodically update, as necessary, 
        security auditing procedures used by the Open Technology Fund 
        to reflect current industry security standards;
            ``(4) establish safeguards to mitigate the use of such 
        supported technologies for illicit purposes;
            ``(5) solicit project proposals through an open, 
        transparent, and competitive application process to attract 
        innovative applications and reduce barriers to entry;
            ``(6)(A) seek input from technical, regional, and subject 
        matter experts from a wide range of relevant disciplines; and
            ``(B) to review, provide feedback, and evaluate proposals 
        to ensure that the most competitive projects are funded;
            ``(7) implement an independent review process, through 
        which proposals are reviewed by such experts to ensure the 
        highest degree of technical review and due diligence;
            ``(8) maximize cooperation with the public and private 
        sectors, foreign allies, and partner countries to maximize 
        efficiencies and eliminate duplication of efforts; and
            ``(9) utilize any other methodology approved by the United 
        States Agency for Global Media in furtherance of the mission of 
        the Open Technology Fund.
    ``(d) Grant Agreement.--Any grant agreement with, or grants made 
to, the Open Technology Fund under this section shall be subject to the 
following limitations and restrictions:
            ``(1) The headquarters of the Open Technology Fund and its 
        senior administrative and managerial staff shall be located in 
        a location which ensures economy, operational effectiveness, 
        and accountability to the United States Agency for Global 
        Media.
            ``(2) Grants awarded under this section shall be made 
        pursuant to a grant agreement requiring that--
                    ``(A) grant funds are only used only activities 
                consistent with this section; and
                    ``(B) failure to comply with such requirement shall 
                result in termination of the grant without further 
                fiscal obligation to the United States.
            ``(3) Each grant agreement under this section shall require 
        that each contract entered into by the Open Technology Fund 
        specify that all obligations are assumed by the grantee and not 
        by the United States Government.
            ``(4) Each grant agreement under this section shall require 
        that any lease agreements entered into by the Open Technology 
        Fund shall be, to the maximum extent possible, assignable to 
        the United States Government.
            ``(5) Administrative and managerial costs for operation of 
        the Open Technology Fund--
                    ``(A) should be kept to a minimum; and
                    ``(B) to the maximum extent feasible, should not 
                exceed the costs that would have been incurred if the 
                Open Technology Fund had been operated as a Federal 
                entity rather than as a grantee.
            ``(6) Grant funds may not be used for any activity whose 
        purpose is influencing the passage or defeat of legislation 
        considered by Congress.
    ``(e) Relationship to the United States Agency for Global Media.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Open Technology Fund shall be 
        subject to the oversight and governance by the United States 
        Agency for Global Media in accordance with section 305.
            ``(2) Assistance.--The United States Agency for Global 
        Media, its broadcast entities, and the Open Technology Fund 
        should render such assistance to each other as may be necessary 
        to carry out the purposes of this section or any other 
        provision under this Act.
            ``(3) Not a federal agency or instrumentality.--Nothing in 
        this section may be construed to make the Open Technology Fund 
        an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.
            ``(4) Detailees.--Employees of a grantee of the United 
        States Agency for Global Media may be detailed to the Agency, 
        in accordance with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 
        (42 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.) and Federal employees may be detailed 
        to a grantee of the United States Agency for Global Media, in 
        accordance with such Act.
    ``(f) Relationship to Other United States Government-funded 
Internet Freedom Programs.--The United States Agency for Global Media 
shall ensure that internet freedom research and development projects of 
the Open Technology Fund are deconflicted with internet freedom 
programs of the Department of State and other relevant United States 
Government departments. Agencies should still share information and 
best practices relating to the implementation of subsections (b) and 
(c).
    ``(g) Reporting Requirements.--
            ``(1) Annual report.--The Open Technology Fund shall 
        highlight, in its annual report, internet freedom activities, 
        including a comprehensive assessment of the Open Technology 
        Fund's activities relating to the implementation of subsections 
        (b) and (c), which shall include--
                    ``(A) an assessment of the current state of global 
                internet freedom, including--
                            ``(i) trends in censorship and surveillance 
                        technologies and internet shutdowns; and
                            ``(ii) the threats such pose to 
                        journalists, citizens, and human rights and 
                        civil society organizations; and
                    ``(B) a description of the technology projects 
                supported by the Open Technology Fund and the 
                associated impact of such projects in the most recently 
                completed year, including--
                            ``(i) the countries and regions in which 
                        such technologies were deployed;
                            ``(ii) any associated metrics indicating 
                        audience usage of such technologies; and
                            ``(iii) future-year technology project 
                        initiatives.
            ``(2) Assessment of the effectiveness of the open 
        technology fund.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this section, the Inspector General of the 
        Department of State and the Foreign Service shall submit a 
        report to the appropriate congressional committees that 
        indicates--
                    ``(A) whether the Open Technology Fund is--
                            ``(i) technically sound;
                            ``(ii) cost effective; and
                            ``(iii) satisfying the requirements under 
                        this section; and
                    ``(B) the extent to which the interests of the 
                United States are being served by maintaining the work 
                of the Open Technology Fund.
    ``(h) Audit Authorities.--
            ``(1) In general.--Financial transactions of the Open 
        Technology Fund that relate to functions carried out under this 
        section may be audited by the Government Accountability Office 
        in accordance with such principles and procedures and under 
        such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the 
        Comptroller General of the United States. Any such audit shall 
        be conducted at the place or places at which accounts of the 
        Open Technology Fund are normally kept.
            ``(2) Access by gao.--The Government Accountability Office 
        shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports, 
        files, papers, and property belonging to or in use by the Open 
        Technology Fund pertaining to financial transactions as may be 
        necessary to facilitate an audit. The Government Accountability 
        Office shall be afforded full facilities for verifying 
        transactions with any assets held by depositories, fiscal 
        agents, and custodians. All such books, accounts, records, 
        reports, files, papers, and property of the Open Technology 
        Fund shall remain in the possession and custody of the Open 
        Technology Fund.
            ``(3) Exercise of authorities.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the Inspector General of the Department of 
        State and the Foreign Service is authorized to exercise the 
        authorities of the Inspector General Act of 1978 with respect 
        to the Open Technology Fund.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--The United States International 
        Broadcasting Act of 1994 is amended--
                    (A) in section 304(d) (22 U.S.C. 6203(d)), by 
                inserting ``the Open Technology Fund,'' before ``the 
                Middle East Broadcasting Networks'';
                    (B) in sections 305(a)(20) and 310(c) (22 U.S.C. 
                6204(a)(20) and 6209(c)), by inserting ``the Open 
                Technology Fund,'' before ``or the Middle East 
                Broadcasting Networks'' each place such term appears; 
                and
                    (C) in section 310 (22 U.S.C. 6209), by inserting 
                ``the Open Technology Fund,'' before ``and the Middle 
                East Broadcasting Networks'' each place such term 
                appears.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated for the Open Technology Fund, which shall be 
        used to carry out section 309A of the United States 
        International Broadcasting Act of 1994, as added by paragraph 
        (1)--
                    (A) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2021; and
                    (B) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
    (e) United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.-- 
Section 1334 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 
1998 (22 U.S.C. 6553) is amended by striking ``October 1, 2020'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2025''.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
              CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED 
              STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1217 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is 
further amended by striking ``beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending 
on December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``beginning on October 1, 2020, 
and ending on December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Modification to Limitation.--Subsection (d)(1) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``beginning on October 1, 2019, and ending 
        on December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``beginning on October 1, 
        2020, and ending on December 31, 2021''; and
            (2) by striking ``$450,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$180,000,000''.

SEC. 1212. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1619), as most recently amended 
by section 1208(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting 
                ``December 31, 2021''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$2,500,000'' and inserting 
                ``$2,000,000'';
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking the subsection 
        designation and heading and all that follows through the period 
        at the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Quarterly Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Beginning in fiscal year 2021, not later 
        than 45 days after the end of each quarter fiscal year, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report regarding the source of funds and the 
        allocation and use of funds during that quarter fiscal year 
        that were made available pursuant to the authority provided in 
        this section or under any other provision of law for the 
        purposes of the program under subsection (a).''; and
            (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1213. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF SUPPORT FOR RECONCILIATION 
              ACTIVITIES LED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) Modification of Authority To Provide Covered Support.--
Subsection (a) of section 1218 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by striking the subsection designation and heading and 
        all that follows through ``The Secretary of Defense'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(a) Authority To Provide Covered Support.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        of Defense''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Limitation on use of funds.--Amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of 
        Defense by this Act may not be obligated or expended to provide 
        covered support until the date on which the Secretary of 
        Defense submits to the appropriate committees of Congress the 
        report required by subsection (b).''.
    (b) Participation in Reconciliation Activities.--Such section is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (i) through (k) as 
        subsections (j) through (l), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
        subsection (i):
    ``(i) Participation in Reconciliation Activities.--Covered support 
may only be used to support a reconciliation activity that--
            ``(1) includes the participation of members of the 
        Government of Afghanistan; and
            ``(2) does not restrict the participation of women.''.
    (c) Extension.--Subsection (k) of such section, as so redesignated, 
is amended by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 
31, 2021''.
    (d) Exclusions From Covered Support.--Such section is further 
amended in paragraph (2)(B) of subsection (l), as so redesignated--
            (1) in clause (ii), by inserting ``, reimbursement for 
        travel or lodging, and stipends or per diem payments'' before 
        the period at the end; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) Any activity involving one or more 
                        members of an organization designated as a 
                        foreign terrorist organization pursuant to 
                        section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality 
                        Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) or an individual designated 
                        as a specially designated global terrorist 
                        pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 
                        1701 note; relating to blocking property and 
                        prohibiting transactions with persons who 
                        commit, threaten to commit, or support 
                        terrorism).''.

SEC. 1214. SENSE OF SENATE ON SPECIAL IMMIGRANT VISA PROGRAM FOR AFGHAN 
              ALLIES.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the special immigrant visa program for Afghan allies is 
        critical to the mission in Afghanistan and the long-term 
        interests of the United States;
            (2) maintaining a robust special immigrant visa program for 
        Afghan allies is necessary to support United States Government 
        personnel in Afghanistan who need translation, interpretation, 
        security, and other services;
            (3) Afghan allies routinely risk their lives to assist 
        United States military and diplomatic personnel;
            (4) honoring the commitments made to Afghan allies with 
        respect to the special immigrant visa program is essential to 
        ensuring--
                    (A) the continued service and safety of such 
                allies; and
                    (B) the willingness of other like-minded 
                individuals to provide similar services in any future 
                contingency;
            (5) the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 
        note) states that all Government-controlled processing of 
        applications for special immigrant visas under that Act 
        ``should be completed not later than 9 months after the date on 
        which an eligible alien submits all required materials to 
        complete an application for such visa'';
            (6) any backlog in processing special immigrant visa 
        applications should be addressed as quickly as possible so as 
        to honor the United States commitment to Afghan allies as soon 
        as possible;
            (7) failure to process such applications in an expeditious 
        manner puts lives at risk and jeopardizes a critical element of 
        support to United States operations in Afghanistan; and
            (8) to prevent harm to the operations of the United States 
        Government in Afghanistan, additional visas should be made 
        available to principal aliens who are eligible for special 
        immigrant status under that Act.

SEC. 1215. SENSE OF SENATE AND REPORT ON UNITED STATES PRESENCE IN 
              AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States and our coalition partners have made 
        progress in the fight against al-Qaeda and ISIS in Afghanistan; 
        however, both groups--
                    (A) maintain an ability to operate in Afghanistan;
                    (B) seek to undermine stability in the region; and
                    (C) threaten the security of Afghanistan, the 
                United States, and the allies of the United States;
            (2) the South Asia strategy correctly emphasizes the 
        importance of a conditions-based United States presence in 
        Afghanistan; therefore, any decision to withdraw the Armed 
        Forces of the United States from Afghanistan should be done in 
        an orderly manner in response to conditions on the ground, and 
        in coordination with the Government of Afghanistan and United 
        States allies and partners in the Resolute Support mission, 
        rather than arbitrary timelines;
            (3) a precipitous withdrawal of the Armed Forces of the 
        United States and United States diplomatic and intelligence 
        personnel from Afghanistan without effective, countervailing 
        efforts to secure gains in Afghanistan may allow violent 
        extremist groups to regenerate, threatening the security of the 
        Afghan people and creating a security vacuum that could 
        destabilize the region and provide ample safe haven for 
        extremist groups seeking to conduct external attacks;
            (4) ongoing diplomatic efforts to secure a peaceful, 
        negotiated solution to the conflict in Afghanistan are the best 
        path forward for establishing long-term stability and 
        eliminating the threat posed by extremist groups in 
        Afghanistan;
            (5) the United States supports international diplomatic 
        efforts to facilitate peaceful, negotiated resolution to the 
        ongoing conflict in Afghanistan on terms that respect the 
        rights of innocent civilians and deny safe havens to 
        terrorists; and
            (6) as part of such diplomatic efforts, and as a condition 
        to be met prior to withdrawal, the United States should seek to 
        secure the release of any United States citizens being held 
        against their will in Afghanistan.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2020, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representative a report 
        that includes--
                    (A) an assessment of--
                            (i) the external threat posed by extremist 
                        groups operating in Afghanistan to the United 
                        States homeland and the homelands of United 
                        States allies;
                            (ii) the impact of cessation of United 
                        States counterterrorism activities on the size, 
                        strength, and external aims of such groups; and
                            (iii) the international financial support 
                        the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces 
                        requires in order to maintain current 
                        operational capabilities, including force 
                        cohesion and combat effectiveness;
                    (B) a plan for the orderly transition of all 
                security-related tasks currently undertaken by the 
                Armed Forces of the United States in support of the 
                Afghan National Defense and Security Forces to 
                Afghanistan, including--
                            (i) precision targeting of Afghanistan-
                        based terrorists;
                            (ii) combat-enabler support, such as 
                        artillery and aviation assets; and
                            (iii) noncombat-enabler support, such as 
                        intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, 
                        medical evacuation, and contractor logistic 
                        support; and
                    (C) an update on the status of any United States 
                citizens detained in Afghanistan, and an overview of 
                Administration efforts to secure their release.
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
        annex.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

SEC. 1221. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY AND LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO 
              PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ 
              AND SYRIA.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3558), as most recently 
amended by section 1233(a) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2039), is further amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section 1236, as most recently 
amended by section 1221 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated for the Department of Defense for Overseas 
        Contingency Operations for fiscal year 2021, not more than 
        $322,500,000 may be used to carry out this section.
            ``(2) Limitation and report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Of the funds authorized to be 
                appropriated under paragraph (1), not more than 25 
                percent may be obligated or expended until the date on 
                which the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
                appropriate congressional committees a report that 
                includes the following:
                            ``(i) An explanation of the manner in which 
                        such support aligns with the objectives 
                        contained in the national defense strategy.
                            ``(ii) A description of the manner in which 
                        such support is synchronized with larger whole-
                        of-government funding efforts to strengthen the 
                        bilateral relationship between the United 
                        States and Iraq.
                            ``(iii) A description of--
                                    ``(I) actions taken by the 
                                Government of Iraq to assert control 
                                over popular mobilization forces; and
                                    ``(II) the role of popular 
                                mobilization forces in the national 
                                security apparatus of Iraq.
                            ``(iv) A plan to fully transition security 
                        assistance for the Iraqi Security Forces from 
                        the Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria 
                        Train and Equip Fund to standing security 
                        assistance authorities managed by the Defense 
                        Security Cooperation Agency and the Department 
                        of State by not later than September 30, 2022.
                    ``(B) Form.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include 
                a classified annex.''.

SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
              ASSISTANCE TO VETTED SYRIAN GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS.

    Section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 127 Stat. 3541), as most recently amended by section 1222(a) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
Law 116-92), is further amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``the vetted syrian 
        opposition'' and inserting ``vetted syrian groups and 
        individuals'';
            (2) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``December 31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 
        31, 2021'';
            (3) by striking subsections (b) and (c);
            (4) by redesignating subsections (d) through (m) as 
        subsections (b) through (k), respectively; and
            (5) in paragraph (2) of subsection (b), as so 
        redesignated--
                    (A) in subparagraph (J)(iii), by redesignating 
                subclause (I) as subparagraph (M) and moving the 
                subparagraph four ems to the left;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (F) 
                and (G) through (J) as subparagraphs (B) through (G) 
                and (I) through (L), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so 
                redesignated, the following new subparagraph (A):
                    ``(A) An accounting of the obligation and 
                expenditure of authorized funding for the current and 
                preceding fiscal year.'';
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (G), as so 
                redesignated, the following new subparagraph (H):
                    ``(H) The mechanisms and procedures that will be 
                used to monitor and report to the appropriate 
                congressional committees and leadership of the Senate 
                and House of Representatives any unauthorized end-use 
                of provided training and equipment or other violations 
                of relevant law by appropriately vetted recipients.''; 
                and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(N) Any other matter the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.''.

SEC. 1223. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
              OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY 
              COOPERATION IN IRAQ.

    (a) Limitation on Amount.--Subsection (c) of section 1215 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (10 U.S.C. 113 
note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2021''; and
            (2) by striking ``$30,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$15,000,000''.
    (b) Source of Funds.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended by 
striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2021''.
    (c) Additional Authority.--Subsection (f) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2021''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020'' and inserting ``the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021''.
    (d) Report.--Subsection (g)(1) of such section is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting ``March 1, 2021''.
    (e) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Subsection (h) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal year 2021''; and
                    (B) by striking ``$20,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$10,000,000'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (1);
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), respectively;
            (4) in paragraph (1), as so redesignated, by striking ``The 
        development of a staffing plan'' and inserting ``A progress 
        report with respect to the development of a staffing plan''; 
        and
            (5) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking ``The 
        initiation'' and inserting ``A progress report with respect to 
        the initiation''.

   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
              UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    Section 1232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2488), as most recently 
amended by section 1231 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``, 2019, or 2020'' and inserting 
``2019, 2020, or 2021''.

SEC. 1232. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
              OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER CRIMEA.

    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended to, and the Department may not, implement any 
activity that recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
Crimea.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) if 
the Secretary of Defense--
            (1) determines that a waiver is in the national security 
        interest of the United States; and
            (2) on the date on which the waiver is invoked, submits a 
        notification of the waiver and a justification of the reason 
        for seeking the waiver to--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 1233. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
              INITIATIVE.

     Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068), as most recently amended 
by section 1244 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B)--
                            (i) in clause (iv), by striking ``; and'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in clause (v), by striking the period 
                        at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(vi) transformation of command and 
                        control structures and roles in line with North 
                        Atlantic Treaty Organization principles; and
                            ``(vii) improvement of human resources 
                        management, including to support career 
                        management reforms, enhanced social support to 
                        military personnel and their families, and 
                        professional military education systems.''; and
                    (B) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
            ``(5) Lethal assistance.--Of the funds available for fiscal 
        year 2021 pursuant to subsection (f)(6), $125,000,000 shall be 
        available only for lethal assistance described in paragraphs 
        (2), (3), (11), (12), (13), and (14) of subsection (b).'';
            (2) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(6) For fiscal year 2021, $250,000,000.''; and
            (3) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2022'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2024''.

SEC. 1234. REPORT ON CAPABILITY AND CAPACITY REQUIREMENTS OF MILITARY 
              FORCES OF UKRAINE AND RESOURCE PLAN FOR SECURITY 
              ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report on the capability and capacity requirements of the military 
forces of Ukraine, which shall include the following:
            (1) An analysis of the capability gaps and capacity 
        shortfalls of the military forces of Ukraine that includes--
                    (A) an assessment of the requirements of the navy 
                of Ukraine to accomplish its assigned missions; and
                    (B) an assessment of the requirements of the air 
                force of Ukraine to accomplish its assigned missions.
            (2) An assessment of the relative priority assigned by the 
        Government of Ukraine to addressing such capability gaps and 
        capacity shortfalls.
            (3) An assessment of the capability gaps and capacity 
        shortfalls that--
                    (A) could be addressed in a sufficient and timely 
                manner by unilateral efforts of the Government of 
                Ukraine; and
                    (B) are unlikely to be addressed in a sufficient 
                and timely manner solely through unilateral efforts.
            (4) An assessment of the capability gaps and capacity 
        shortfalls described in paragraph (3)(B) that could be 
        addressed in a sufficient and timely manner by--
                    (A) the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative of 
                the Department of Defense;
                    (B) Department of Defense security assistance 
                authorized by section 333 of title 10, United States 
                Code;
                    (C) the Foreign Military Financing and Foreign 
                Military Sales programs of the Department of State; or
                    (D) the provision of excess defense articles.
            (5) An assessment of the human resources requirements of 
        the Office of Defense Cooperation at the United States Embassy 
        in Kyiv and any gaps in the capacity of such Office of Defense 
        Cooperation to provide security assistance to Ukraine.
            (6) Any recommendations the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Secretary of State consider appropriate concerning the 
        coordination of security assistance efforts of the Department 
        of Defense and the Department of State with respect to Ukraine.
    (b) Resource Plan.--Not later than February 15, 2022, the Secretary 
of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a resource plan for United States 
security assistance with respect to Ukraine, which shall include the 
following:
            (1) A plan to resource the following initiatives and 
        programs with respect to Ukraine in fiscal year 2023 and the 
        four succeeding fiscal years to meet the most critical 
        capability gaps and capacity shortfalls of the military forces 
        of Ukraine:
                    (A) The Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative of 
                the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Department of Defense security assistance 
                authorized by section 333 of title 10, United States 
                Code.
                    (C) The Foreign Military Financing and Foreign 
                Military Sales programs of the Department of State.
                    (D) The provision of excess defense articles.
            (2) With respect to the navy of Ukraine, the following:
                    (A) A capability development plan, with milestones, 
                detailing the manner in which the United States will 
                assist the Government of Ukraine in meeting the 
                requirements referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A).
                    (B) A plan for United States cooperation with third 
                countries and international organizations that have the 
                resources and ability to provide immediate assistance 
                to the navy of Ukraine while maintaining 
                interoperability with United States platforms to the 
                extent feasible.
                    (C) A plan to prioritize the provision of excess 
                defense articles for the navy of Ukraine to the extent 
                practicable during fiscal year 2023 and the four 
                succeeding fiscal years.
                    (D) An assessment of the manner in which United 
                States security assistance to the navy of Ukraine is in 
                the national security interests of the United States.
            (3) With respect to the air force of Ukraine, the 
        following:
                    (A) A capability development plan, with milestones, 
                detailing the manner in which the United States will 
                assist the Government of Ukraine in meeting the 
                requirements referred to in subsection (a)(1)(B).
                    (B) A plan for United States cooperation with third 
                countries and international organizations that have the 
                resources and ability to provide immediate assistance 
                to the air force of Ukraine while maintaining 
                interoperability with United States platforms to the 
                extent feasible.
                    (C) A plan to prioritize the provision of excess 
                defense articles for the air force of Ukraine to the 
                extent practicable during fiscal year 2023 and the four 
                succeeding fiscal years.
                    (D) An assessment of the manner in which United 
                States security assistance to the air force of Ukraine 
                is in the national security interests of the United 
                States.
            (4) An assessment of progress on defense institutional 
        reforms in Ukraine, including with respect to the navy and air 
        force of Ukraine, during fiscal year 2023 and the four 
        succeeding fiscal years that will be essential for--
                    (A) enabling effective use and sustainment of 
                capabilities developed under security assistance 
                authorities described in this section;
                    (B) enhancing the defense of the sovereignty and 
                territorial integrity of Ukraine;
                    (C) achieving the stated goal of the Government of 
                Ukraine of meeting North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
                standards; and
                    (D) allowing Ukraine to achieve its full potential 
                as a strategic partner of the United States.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) and the resource 
plan required by subsection (b) shall each be submitted in a classified 
form with an unclassified summary.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

SEC. 1235. SENSE OF SENATE ON NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 
              ENHANCED OPPORTUNITIES PARTNER STATUS FOR UKRAINE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States should support the designation of 
        Ukraine as an enhanced opportunities partner as part of the 
        Partnership Interoperability Initiative of the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization;
            (2) the participation of Ukraine in the enhanced 
        opportunities partner program is in the shared security 
        interests of Ukraine, the United States, and the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization alliance;
            (3) the unique experience, capabilities, and technical 
        expertise of Ukraine, especially with respect to hybrid 
        warfare, cybersecurity, and foreign disinformation, would 
        enable Ukraine to make a positive contribution to the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization alliance through participation in 
        the enhanced opportunities partner program;
            (4) while not a replacement for North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization membership, participation in the enhanced 
        opportunities partner program would have significant benefits 
        for the security of Ukraine, including--
                    (A) more regular consultations on security matters;
                    (B) enhanced access to interoperability programs 
                and exercises;
                    (C) expanded information sharing; and
                    (D) improved coordination of crisis preparedness 
                and response; and
            (5) progress on defense institutional reforms in Ukraine, 
        including defense institutional reforms intended to align the 
        military forces of Ukraine with North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization standards, remains essential for--
                    (A) a more effective defense of the sovereignty and 
                territorial integrity of Ukraine;
                    (B) allowing Ukraine to achieve its full potential 
                as a strategic partner of the United States; and
                    (C) increased cooperation between Ukraine and the 
                North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

SEC. 1236. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN 
              NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL 
              EXERCISES.

    Subsection (h) of section 1251 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 333 note), as most 
recently amended by section 1247 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is further amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``December 31, 
        2021'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``the period 
        beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 31, 2021'' 
        and inserting ``the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and 
        ending on December 31, 2023''.

SEC. 1237. SENSE OF SENATE ON KOSOVO AND THE ROLE OF THE KOSOVO FORCE 
              OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION.

     It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) normalization of relations between Kosovo and Serbia is 
        in the interest of both countries and would enhance security 
        and stability in the Western Balkans;
            (2) the United States should continue to support the 
        diplomatic efforts of Kosovo and Serbia to reach a historic 
        agreement to normalize relations between the two countries;
            (3) mutual recognition should be a central element of 
        normalization of relations between Kosovo and Serbia;
            (4) both Kosovo and Serbia should refrain from actions that 
        would make an agreement more difficult to achieve;
            (5) the Kosovo Force of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization continues to play an indispensable role in 
        maintaining security and stability, which are the essential 
        predicates for the success of the diplomatic efforts of Kosovo 
        and Serbia to achieve normalization of relations;
            (6) the participation of the United States Armed Forces in 
        the Kosovo Force is foundational to the credibility and success 
        of mission of the Kosovo Force;
            (7) with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies and 
        other European partners contributing over 80 percent of the 
        troops for the mission, the Kosovo Force represents a positive 
        example of burden sharing;
            (8) together with the allies and partners of the United 
        States, the United States should--
                    (A) maintain its commitment to the Kosovo Force; 
                and
                    (B) take all appropriate steps to ensure that the 
                Kosovo Force has the necessary personnel, capabilities, 
                and resources to perform its critical mission; and
            (9) the United States should continue to support the 
        gradual transition of the Kosovo Security Force to a multi-
        ethnic army for the Republic of Kosovo that is interoperable 
        with North Atlantic Treaty Organization members through an 
        inclusive and transparent process that--
                    (A) respects the rights and concerns of all 
                citizens of Kosovo;
                    (B) promotes regional security and stability; and
                    (C) supports the aspirations of Kosovo for eventual 
                full membership in the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization.

SEC. 1238. SENSE OF SENATE ON STRATEGIC COMPETITION WITH THE RUSSIAN 
              FEDERATION AND RELATED ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the 2018 National Defense Strategy affirms the re-
        emergence of long-term strategic competition with the Russian 
        Federation as a principal priority for the Department of 
        Defense that requires sustained investment due to the magnitude 
        of the threat posed to United States security, prosperity, and 
        alliances and partnerships;
            (2) given the continued military modernization of the 
        Russian Federation, including the development of long-range 
        strike systems and other advanced capabilities, the United 
        States should prioritize efforts within the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization to implement timely measures to ensure that 
        the deterrence and defense posture of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization remains credible and effective;
            (3) the United States should reaffirm support for the open-
        door policy of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization;
            (4) to enhance deterrence against aggression by the Russian 
        Federation, the Department of Defense should--
                    (A) continue--
                            (i) to prioritize funding for the European 
                        Deterrence Initiative to address capability 
                        gaps, capacity shortfalls, and infrastructure 
                        requirements of the Joint Force in Europe;
                            (ii) to increase pre-positioned stocks of 
                        equipment in Europe; and
                            (iii) rotational deployments of United 
                        States forces to Romania and Bulgaria while 
                        pursuing training opportunities at military 
                        locations such as Camp Mihail Kogalniceanu in 
                        Romania and Novo Selo Training Area in 
                        Bulgaria;
                    (B) increase--
                            (i) focus and resources to address the 
                        changing military balance in the Black Sea 
                        region;
                            (ii) the frequency, scale, and scope of 
                        North Atlantic Treaty Organization and other 
                        multilateral exercises in the Black Sea region, 
                        including with the participation of Ukraine and 
                        Georgia; and
                            (iii) presence and activities in the 
                        Arctic, including special operations training 
                        and naval operations and training;
                    (C) maintain robust naval presence at Souda Bay, 
                Greece, and pursue opportunities for increased United 
                States presence at other locations in Greece;
                    (D) enhance military-to-military engagement among 
                Western Balkan countries to promote interoperability 
                with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and 
                regional security cooperation; and
                    (E) expand information sharing, improve planning 
                coordination, and increase the frequency, scale, and 
                scope of exercises with Sweden and Finland to deepen 
                interoperability; and
            (5) to counter Russian Federation activities short of armed 
        conflict, the Department of Defense should--
                    (A) integrate with United States interagency 
                efforts to employ all elements of national power to 
                counter Russian Federation hybrid warfare; and
                    (B) bolster the capabilities of allies and partners 
                to counteract Russian Federation coercion, including 
                through expanded cyber cooperation and enhanced 
                resilience against disinformation and malign influence.

SEC. 1239. REPORT ON RUSSIAN FEDERATION SUPPORT OF RACIALLY AND 
              ETHNICALLY MOTIVATED VIOLENT EXTREMISTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the head of any other relevant Federal department or agency, shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on Russian 
Federation support of racially and ethnically motivated violent 
extremist groups and networks in Europe and the United States, 
including such support provided by agents and entities of the Russian 
Federation acting at the direction or for the benefit of the Government 
of the Russian Federation.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A list of each racially or ethnically motivated violent 
        extremist group or network in Europe or the United States known 
        to meet, or suspected of meeting, the following criteria:
                    (A) The group or network has been targeted or 
                recruited by the security services of the Russian 
                Federation.
                    (B) The group or network has received support 
                (including training, disinformation or amplification on 
                social media platforms, financial support, and any 
                other support) from the Russian Federation or an agent 
                or entity of the Russian Federation acting at the 
                direction or for the benefit of the Government of the 
                Russian Federation.
                    (C) The group--
                            (i) has leadership or a base of operations 
                        located within the Russian Federation; and
                            (ii) operates or maintains a chapter or 
                        network of the group in Europe or the United 
                        States.
            (2) An assessment of the manner in which Russian Federation 
        support of such groups or networks aligns with the strategic 
        interests of the Russian Federation with respect to Europe and 
        the United States.
            (3) An assessment of the role of such groups or networks 
        in--
                    (A) assisting Russian Federation-backed separatist 
                forces in the Donbas region of Ukraine; or
                    (B) destabilizing security on the Crimean peninsula 
                of Ukraine.
            (4) An assessment of the manner in which Russian Federation 
        support of such groups or networks has--
                    (A) contributed to the destabilization of security 
                in the Balkans; and
                    (B) threatened the support for the North Atlantic 
                Treaty Organization in Southeastern Europe.
            (5) A description of any relationship or affiliation 
        between such groups or networks and ultranationalist or 
        extremist political parties in Europe and the United States, 
        and an assessment of the manner in which the Russian Federation 
        may use such a relationship or affiliation to advance the 
        strategic interests of the Russian Federation.
            (6) A description of the use by the Russian Federation of 
        social media platforms to support or amplify the presence or 
        messaging of such groups or networks, and an assessment of any 
        effort in Europe or the United States to counter such support 
        or amplification.
            (7) A description of the legal and political implications 
        of the designation of the Russian Imperial Movement, and 
        members of the leadership of the Russian Imperial Movement, as 
        specially designated global terrorists pursuant to Executive 
        Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property 
        and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten 
        to commit, or support terrorism) and the response of the 
        Government of the Russian Federation to such designation.
            (8) Recommendations of the Secretary of Defense, consistent 
        with a whole-of-government approach to countering Russian 
        Federation information warfare and malign influence 
        operations--
                    (A) to mitigate the security threat posed by such 
                groups or networks; and
                    (B) to reduce or counter Russian Federation support 
                for such groups or networks.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1240. PARTICIPATION IN EUROPEAN PROGRAM ON MULTILATERAL EXCHANGE 
              OF SURFACE TRANSPORTATION SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after subsection (l) the following 
new section 2350m:
``Sec. 2350m. Participation in European program on multilateral 
              exchange of surface transportation services
    ``(a) Participation Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, may authorize the 
        participation of the Department of Defense in the Surface 
        Exchange of Services program (in this section referred to as 
        the `SEOS program') of the Movement Coordination Centre Europe.
            ``(2) Scope of participation.--Participation of the 
        Department of Defense in the SEOS program under paragraph (1) 
        may include--
                    ``(A) the reciprocal exchange or transfer of 
                surface transportation on a reimbursable basis or by 
                replacement-in-kind; and
                    ``(B) the exchange of surface transportation 
                services of an equal value.
    ``(b) Written Arrangement or Agreement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Participation of the Department of 
        Defense in the SEOS program shall be in accordance with a 
        written arrangement or agreement entered into by the Secretary 
        of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, and 
        the Movement Coordination Centre Europe.
            ``(2) Notification.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide 
        to the congressional defense committees notification of any 
        arrangement or agreement entered into under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Funding arrangements.--If Department of Defense 
        facilities, equipment, or funds are used to support the SEOS 
        program, the written arrangement or agreement under paragraph 
        (1) shall specify the details of any equitable cost-sharing or 
        other funding arrangement.
            ``(4) Other elements.--Any written arrangement or agreement 
        entered into under paragraph (1) shall require that any accrued 
        credits or liability resulting from an unequal exchange or 
        transfer of surface transportation services shall be liquidated 
        through the SEOS program not less than once every five years.
    ``(c) Implementation.--In carrying out any arrangement or agreement 
entered into under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may--
            ``(1) pay the equitable share of the Department of Defense 
        for the operating expenses of the Movement Coordination Centre 
        Europe and the SEOS program from funds available to the 
        Department of Defense for operation and maintenance; and
            ``(2) assign members of the armed forces or Department of 
        Defense civilian personnel, within billets authorized for the 
        United States European Command, to duty at the Movement 
        Coordination Centre Europe as necessary to fulfill Department 
        of Defense obligations under that arrangement or agreement.
    ``(d) Crediting of Receipts.--Any amount received by the Department 
of Defense as part of the SEOS program shall be credited, at the option 
of the Secretary of Defense, to--
            ``(1) the appropriation, fund, or account used in incurring 
        the obligation for which such amount is received; or
            ``(2) an appropriate appropriation, fund, or account 
        currently available for the purposes for which the expenditures 
        were made.
    ``(e) Annual Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year in which the authority under this section is 
        in effect, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on Department of 
        Defense participation in the SEOS program during such fiscal 
        year.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) A description of the equitable share of the 
                costs and activities of the SEOS program paid by the 
                Department of Defense.
                    ``(B) A description of any amount received by the 
                Department of Defense as part of such program, 
                including the country from which the amount was 
                received.
    ``(f) Limitation on Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this 
section may be construed to authorize the use of foreign sealift in 
violation of section 2631.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2350l the following new item:

``2350m. Participation in European program on multilateral exchange of 
                            surface transportation services.''.

SEC. 1241. PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAMS RELATING TO COORDINATION OR 
              EXCHANGE OF AIR REFUELING AND AIR TRANSPORTATION 
              SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United 
States Code, as amended by section 1240(a), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2350o. Participation in programs relating to coordination or 
              exchange of air refueling and air transportation services
    ``(a) Participation Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, may authorize the 
        participation of the Department of Defense in programs relating 
        to the coordination or exchange of air refueling and air 
        transportation services, including in the arrangement known as 
        the Air Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and other Exchanges 
        of Services program (in this section referred to as the `ATARES 
        program').
            ``(2) Scope of participation.--Participation of the 
        Department of Defense in programs referred to in paragraph (1) 
        may include--
                    ``(A) the reciprocal exchange or transfer of air 
                refueling and air transportation services on a 
                reimbursable basis or by replacement-in-kind; and
                    ``(B) the exchange of air refueling and air 
                transportation services of an equal value.
            ``(3) Limitations with respect to participation in atares 
        program.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Department of Defense 
                balance of executed flight hours in participation in 
                the ATARES program under paragraph (1), whether as 
                credits or debits, may not exceed a total of 500 hours.
                    ``(B) Air refueling.--The Department of Defense 
                balance of executed flight hours for air refueling in 
                participation in the ATARES program under paragraph (1) 
                may not exceed 200 hours.
    ``(b) Written Arrangement or Agreement.--Participation of the 
Department of Defense in a program referred to in subsection (a)(1) 
shall be in accordance with a written arrangement or agreement entered 
into by the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary 
of State.
    ``(c) Implementation.--In carrying out any arrangement or agreement 
entered into under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense may--
            ``(1) pay the equitable share of the Department of Defense 
        for the recurring and nonrecurring costs of the applicable 
        program referred to in subsection (a)(1) from funds available 
        to the Department for operation and maintenance; and
            ``(2) assign members of the armed forces or Department of 
        Defense civilian personnel to fulfill Department obligations 
        under that arrangement or agreement.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter, as amended by section 1240(b), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new item:

``2350o. Participation in programs relating to coordination or exchange 
                            of air refueling and air transportation 
                            services.''.
    (c) Repeal.--Section 1276 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 2350c note) is repealed.

SEC. 1242. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUPPORT FOR COORDINATED ACTION TO 
              ENSURE THE SECURITY OF BALTIC ALLIES.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the continued security of the Baltic states of Estonia, 
        Latvia, and Lithuania is critical to achieving United States 
        national security interests and defense objectives against the 
        acute and formidable threat posed by Russia;
            (2) the United States and the Baltic states are leaders in 
        the mission of defending independence and democracy from 
        aggression and in promoting stability and security within the 
        North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), with non-NATO 
        partners, and with other international organizations such as 
        the European Union;
            (3) the Baltic states are model NATO allies in terms of 
        burden sharing and capital investment in materiel critical to 
        United States and allied security, investment of over 2 percent 
        of their gross domestic product on defense expenditure, 
        allocating over 20 percent of their defense budgets on capital 
        modernization, matching security assistance from the United 
        States, frequently deploying their forces around the world in 
        support of allied and United States objectives, and sharing 
        diplomatic, technical, military, and analytical expertise on 
        defense and security matters;
            (4) the United States should continue to strengthen 
        bilateral and multilateral defense by, with, and through allied 
        nations, particularly those that possess expertise and 
        dexterity but do not enjoy the benefits of national economies 
        of scale;
            (5) the United States should pursue a dedicated initiative 
        focused on defense and security assistance, coordination, and 
        planning designed to ensure the continued security of the 
        Baltic states and on deterring current and future challenges to 
        the national sovereignty of United States allies and partners 
        in the Baltic region; and
            (6) such an initiative should include an innovative and 
        comprehensive conflict deterrence strategy for the Baltic 
        region encompassing the unique geography of the Baltic states, 
        modern and diffuse threats to their land, sea, and air spaces, 
        and necessary improvements to their defense posture, including 
        command-and-control infrastructure, intelligence, surveillance, 
        and reconnaissance capabilities, communications equipment and 
        networks, and special forces.

        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 1251. PACIFIC DETERRENCE INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out an 
initiative to ensure the effective implementation of the National 
Defense Strategy with respect to the Indo-Pacific region, to be known 
as the ``Pacific Deterrence Initiative'' (in this section referred to 
as the ``Initiative'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Initiative is to carry out only 
the following activities:
            (1) Activities to increase the lethality of the joint force 
        in the Indo-Pacific region, including, but not limited to--
                    (A) by improving active and passive defenses 
                against theater cruise, ballistic, and hypersonic 
                missiles for bases, operating locations, and other 
                critical infrastructure at locations west of the 
                International Date Line; and
                    (B) procurement and fielding of--
                            (i) long-range precision strike systems to 
                        be stationed or pre-positioned west of the 
                        International Date Line;
                            (ii) critical munitions to be pre-
                        positioned at locations west of the 
                        International Date Line; and
                            (iii) command, control, communications, 
                        computers and intelligence, surveillance, and 
                        reconnaissance systems intended for stationing 
                        or operational use in the Indo-Pacific region.
            (2) Activities to enhance the design and posture of the 
        joint force in the Indo-Pacific region, including, but not 
        limited to, by--
                    (A) transitioning from large, centralized, and 
                unhardened infrastructure to smaller, dispersed, 
                resilient, and adaptive basing at locations west of the 
                International Date Line;
                    (B) increasing the number and capabilities of 
                expeditionary airfields and ports in the Indo-Pacific 
                region available for operational use at locations west 
                of the International Date Line;
                    (C) enhancing pre-positioned forward stocks of 
                fuel, munitions, equipment, and materiel at locations 
                west of the International Date Line;
                    (D) increasing the availability of strategic 
                mobility assets in the Indo-Pacific region;
                    (E) improving distributed logistics and maintenance 
                capabilities in the Indo-Pacific region to ensure 
                logistics sustainment while under persistent 
                multidomain attack; and
                    (F) increasing the presence of the Armed Forces at 
                locations west of the International Date Line.
            (3) Activities to strengthen alliances and partnerships, 
        including, but not limited to, by--
                    (A) building capacity of allies and partners; and
                    (B) improving--
                            (i) interoperability and information 
                        sharing with allies and partners; and
                            (ii) information operations capabilities in 
                        the Indo-Pacific region, with a focus on 
                        reinforcing United States commitment to allies 
                        and partners and countering malign influence.
            (4) Activities to carry out a program of exercises, 
        experimentation, and innovation for the joint force in the 
        Indo-Pacific region.
    (c) Plan Required.--Not later than February 15, 2021, the 
Secretary, in consultation with the Commander of the United States 
Indo-Pacific Command, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a plan to expend not less than the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under subsection (e)(2).
    (d) Budget Display Information.--The Secretary shall include in the 
materials of the Department of Defense in support of the budget of the 
President (submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code) for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year 
thereafter a detailed budget display for the Initiative that includes 
the following information:
            (1) A future-years plan with respect to activities and 
        resources for the Initiative for the applicable fiscal year and 
        not fewer than the four following fiscal years.
            (2) With respect to procurement accounts--
                    (A) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, 
                line number, line item, and line item title; and
                    (B) a description of the requirements for such 
                amounts specific to the Initiative.
            (3) With respect to research, development, test, and 
        evaluation accounts--
                    (A) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, 
                line number, program element, and program element 
                title; and
                    (B) a description of the requirements for such 
                amounts specific to the Initiative.
            (4) With respect to operation and maintenance accounts--
                    (A) amounts displayed by account title, budget 
                activity title, line number, and subactivity group 
                title; and
                    (B) a description of the specific manner in which 
                such amounts will be used.
            (5) With respect to military personnel accounts--
                    (A) amounts displayed by account, budget activity, 
                budget subactivity, and budget subactivity title; and
                    (B) a description of the requirements for such 
                amounts specific to the Initiative.
            (6) With respect to each project under military 
        construction accounts (including with respect to unspecified 
        minor military construction and amounts for planning and 
        design), the country, location, project title, and project 
        amount by fiscal year.
            (7) With respect to the activities described in subsection 
        (b)--
                    (A) amounts displayed by account title, budget 
                activity title, line number, and subactivity group 
                title; and
                    (B) a description of the specific manner in which 
                such amounts will be used.
            (8) With respect to each military service--
                    (A) amounts displayed by account title, budget 
                activity title, line number, and subactivity group 
                title; and
                    (B) a description of the specific manner in which 
                such amounts will be used.
            (9) With respect to the amounts described in each of 
        paragraphs (2)(A), (3)(A), (4)(A), (5)(A), (6), (7)(A), and 
        (8)(A), a comparison between--
                    (A) the amount in the budget of the President for 
                the following fiscal year; and
                    (B) the amount projected in the previous budget of 
                the President for the following fiscal year.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the activities of the 
Initiative described in subsection (b) the following:
            (1) For fiscal year 2021, $1,406,417,000, as specified in 
        the funding table in section 4502.
            (2) For fiscal year 2022, $5,500,000,000.
    (f) Repeal.--Section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1676), as most 
recently amended by section 1253 of the John S. McCain National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 
2054), is repealed.

SEC. 1252. SENSE OF SENATE ON THE UNITED STATES-VIETNAM DEFENSE 
              RELATIONSHIP.

    In commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the normalization of 
diplomatic relations between the United States and Vietnam, the 
Senate--
            (1) welcomes the historic progress and achievements in 
        United States-Vietnam relations over the last 25 years;
            (2) congratulates Vietnam on its chairmanship of the 
        Association of Southeast Asian Nations and its election as a 
        nonpermanent member of the United Nations Security Council, 
        both of which symbolize the positive leadership role of Vietnam 
        in regional and global affairs;
            (3) commends the commitment of Vietnam to resolve 
        international disputes through peaceful means on the basis of 
        international law;
            (4) affirms the commitment of the United States--
                    (A) to respect the independence and sovereignty of 
                Vietnam; and
                    (B) to establish and promote friendly relations and 
                work together on an equal footing for mutual benefit 
                with Vietnam;
            (5) encourages the United States and Vietnam to elevate 
        their comprehensive partnership to a strategic partnership 
        based on mutual understanding, shared interests, and a common 
        desire to promote peace, cooperation, prosperity, and security 
        in the Indo-Pacific region;
            (6) affirms the commitment of the United States to continue 
        to address war legacy issues, including through dioxin 
        remediation, unexploded ordnance removal, accounting for 
        prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action, and other 
        activities; and
            (7) supports deepening defense cooperation between the 
        United States and Vietnam, including with respect to maritime 
        security, cybersecurity, counterterrorism, information sharing, 
        humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, military medicine, 
        peacekeeping operations, defense trade, and other areas.

SEC. 1253. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS FOR BIEN HOA DIOXIN CLEANUP.

    (a) Transfer Authority.--Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may transfer to the 
Secretary of State, for use by the United States Agency for 
International Development, amounts to be used for the Bien Hoa dioxin 
cleanup in Vietnam.
    (b) Limitation on Amount.--Not more than $15,000,000 may be 
transferred in fiscal year 2021 under the transfer authority in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Additional Transfer Authority.--The transfer authority in 
subsection (a) is in addition to any other transfer authority available 
to the Department of Defense.
    (d) Notice on Exercise of Authority.--If the Secretary of Defense 
determines to use the transfer authority in subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committee of that 
determination not later than 30 days before the Secretary uses the 
transfer authority.

SEC. 1254. COOPERATIVE PROGRAM WITH VIETNAM TO ACCOUNT FOR VIETNAMESE 
              PERSONNEL MISSING IN ACTION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in cooperation with 
other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, is authorized to 
carry out a cooperative program with the Ministry of Defense of Vietnam 
to assist in accounting for Vietnamese personnel missing in action.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the cooperative program under 
subsection (a) is to carry out the following activities:
            (1) Collection, digitization, and sharing of archival 
        information.
            (2) Building the capacity of Vietnam to conduct archival 
        research, investigations, and excavations.
            (3) Improving DNA analysis capacity.
            (4) Increasing veteran-to-veteran exchanges.
            (5) Other support activities the Secretary considers 
        necessary and appropriate.

SEC. 1255. PROVISION OF GOODS AND SERVICES AT KWAJALEIN ATOLL, REPUBLIC 
              OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 767 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7596. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll
    ``(a) Authority.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
Secretary of the Army, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
may provide goods and services, including interatoll transportation, to 
the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and other 
eligible patrons, as determined by the Secretary of the Army, at 
Kwajalein Atoll.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Army may not provide goods or services 
under this section if doing so would be inconsistent, as determined by 
the Secretary of State, with the Compact of Free Association between 
the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic 
of the Marshall Islands or any subsidiary agreement or implementing 
arrangement.
    ``(b) Reimbursement.--(1) The Secretary of the Army may collect 
reimbursement from the Government of the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands and eligible patrons for the provision of goods or services 
under subsection (a).
    ``(2) The amount collected for goods or services under this 
subsection may not be greater than the total amount of actual costs to 
the United States for providing the goods or services.
    ``(c) Necessary Expenses.--Amounts appropriated to the Department 
of the Army may be used for necessary expenses associated with 
providing goods and services under this section.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Army shall issue 
regulations to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``7596. Provision of goods and services at Kwajalein Atoll.''.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of 
the Army shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
briefing on the use of the authority under section 7596(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), in fiscal year 2021, 
including a written summary describing the goods and services provided 
on a reimbursable basis and the goods and services provided on a 
nonreimbursable basis.

SEC. 1256. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH A MOVEMENT COORDINATION CENTER 
              PACIFIC IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION AND PARTICIPATE IN AN 
              AIR TRANSPORT AND AIR-TO-AIR REFUELING AND OTHER 
              EXCHANGES OF SERVICES PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of 
the Secretary of State, may authorize--
            (1) the establishment of a Movement Coordination Center 
        Pacific (in this section referred to as the ``Center''); and
            (2) participation of the Department of Defense in an Air 
        Transport and Air-to-Air Refueling and other Exchanges of 
        Services program (in this section referred to as the ``ATARES 
        program'') of the Center.
    (b) Scope of Participation.--Participation of the Department in the 
ATARES program shall be limited to--
            (1) the reciprocal exchange or transfer of air 
        transportation and air refueling services on a reimbursable 
        basis or by replacement-in-kind; and
            (2) the exchange of air transportation or air refueling 
        services of equal value.
    (c) Limitations.--
            (1) Transportation hours.--The Department balance of 
        executed transportation hours in the ATARES program, whether as 
        credits or debits, may not exceed 500 hours.
            (2) Flight hours.--The Department balance of executed 
        flight hours for air refueling in the ATARES program may not 
        exceed 200 hours.
    (d) Written Arrangement or Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--Participation of the Department in the 
        ATARES program shall be in accordance with a written 
        arrangement or agreement entered into by the Secretary of 
        Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
            (2) Funding arrangements.--If Department facilities, 
        equipment, or funds are used to support the ATARES program, the 
        written arrangement or agreement under paragraph (1) shall 
        specify the details of any equitable cost-sharing or other 
        funding arrangement.
            (3) Other elements.--Any written arrangement or agreement 
        entered into under paragraph (1) shall require any accrued 
        credit or liability resulting from an unequal exchange or 
        transfer of air transportation or air refueling services to be 
        liquidated through the ATARES program not less frequently than 
        once every five years.
    (e) Implementation.--In carrying out any written arrangement or 
agreement entered into under subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense 
may--
            (1) pay the equitable share of the Department for the 
        operating expenses of the Center and the ATARES program from 
        funds available to the Department for operation and 
        maintenance; and
            (2) assign members of the Armed Forces or Department 
        civilian personnel, within billets authorized for the United 
        States Indo-Pacific Command, to duty at the Center as necessary 
        to fulfill Department obligations under that arrangement or 
        agreement.

SEC. 1257. TRAINING OF ALLY AND PARTNER AIR FORCES IN GUAM.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the memorandum of understanding agreed to by the United 
        States and the Republic of Singapore on December 6, 2019, to 
        establish a fighter jet training detachment in Guam should be 
        commended;
            (2) such agreement is a manifestation of the strong, 
        enduring, and forward-looking partnership of the United States 
        and the Republic of Singapore; and
            (3) the permanent establishment of a fighter detachment in 
        Guam will further enhance the interoperability of the air 
        forces of the United States and the Republic of Singapore and 
        provide training opportunities needed to maximize their 
        readiness.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report assessing the merit and 
feasibility of entering into agreements similar to the memorandum of 
understanding referred to in subsection (a)(1) with other United States 
allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region, including Japan, 
Australia, and India.

SEC. 1258. STATEMENT OF POLICY AND SENSE OF SENATE ON THE TAIWAN 
              RELATIONS ACT.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) that the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 
        U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) and the ``Six Assurances'' provided by the 
        United States to Taiwan in July 1982 are the foundation for 
        United States-Taiwan relations;
            (2) that nothing in the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 
        96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) constrains deepening, to the 
        extent possible, the extensive, close, and friendly relations 
        of the United States and Taiwan, including defense relations;
            (3) that the Taiwan Relations Act (Public Law 96-8; 22 
        U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) shall be implemented and executed in a 
        manner consistent with evolving political, security, and 
        economic dynamics and circumstances;
            (4) that, as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act (Public 
        Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.), the United States expects 
        the ``future of Taiwan will be determined by peaceful means,'' 
        and that ``any effort to determine the future of Taiwan by 
        other than peaceful means'' is ``a threat to the peace and 
        security of the Western Pacific area and of grave concern to 
        the United States'';
            (5) that the increasingly coercive and aggressive behavior 
        of the People's Republic of China towards Taiwan, including 
        growing military maneuvers targeting Taiwan, is contrary to the 
        expectation of the peaceful resolution of the future of Taiwan;
            (6) that, as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act (Public 
        Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.), the United States will 
        support the development of capable, ready, and modern defense 
        forces necessary for Taiwan to maintain a sufficient self-
        defense capability, including by--
                    (A) supporting acquisition by Taiwan of defense 
                articles and services through foreign military sales, 
                direct commercial sales, and industrial cooperation, 
                with an emphasis on capabilities that support the 
                asymmetric defense strategy of Taiwan, including 
                antiship, coastal defense, antiarmor, air defense, 
                undersea warfare, advanced command, control, 
                communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, 
                and reconnaissance, and resilient command and control 
                capabilities;
                    (B) ensuring timely review of and response to 
                requests of Taiwan for defense articles and services;
                    (C) conducting practical training and military 
                exercises with Taiwan, including, as appropriate, the 
                Rim of the Pacific exercise, combined training at the 
                National Training Center at Fort Erwin, and bilateral 
                naval exercises and training;
                    (D) examining the potential for expanding 
                professional military education and technical training 
                opportunities in the United States for military 
                personnel of Taiwan;
                    (E) pursuing a strategy of military engagement with 
                Taiwan that fully integrates exchanges at the 
                strategic, policy, and functional levels;
                    (F) increasing exchanges between senior defense 
                officials and general officers of the United States and 
                Taiwan consistent with the Taiwan Travel Act (Public 
                Law 115-135; 132 Stat. 341), especially for the purpose 
                of enhancing cooperation on defense planning and 
                improving the interoperability of the military forces 
                of the United States and Taiwan;
                    (G) conducting military exchanges with Taiwan 
                specifically focused on improving the reserve force of 
                Taiwan; and
                    (H) expanding cooperation in military medicine and 
                humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, including 
                through the participation of medical vessels of Taiwan 
                in appropriate exercises with the United States; and
            (7) that, as set forth in the Taiwan Relations Act (Public 
        Law 96-8; 22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.), the United States will 
        maintain the capacity ``to resist any resort to force or other 
        forms of coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the 
        social or economic system, of the people on Taiwan'', including 
        the capacity of the United States Armed Forces to deny a ``fait 
        accompli'' operation by the People's Republic of China to 
        rapidly seize control of Taiwan.
    (b) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Secretary of Defense should--
            (1) ensure that policy guidance to the Department of 
        Defense related to United States-Taiwan defense relations is 
        fully consistent with the statement of policy set forth in 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) issue new policy guidance required to carry out such 
        policy.

SEC. 1259. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON PORT CALLS IN TAIWAN WITH THE USNS 
              COMFORT AND THE USNS MERCY .

    It is the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense should 
conduct port calls in Taiwan with the USNS Comfort and the USNS Mercy 
--
            (1) to continue the collaboration between the United States 
        and Taiwan on COVID-19 responses, which has included--
                    (A) research and development of tests, vaccines, 
                and medicines; and
                    (B) donations of face masks;
            (2) to further improve the cooperation between the United 
        States and Taiwan on military medicine and humanitarian 
        assistance and disaster relief;
            (3) to allow United States personnel to benefit from the 
        expertise of Taiwanese personnel, in light of the successful 
        response of Taiwan to COVID-19; and
            (4) to continue the mission of the USNS Comfort and the 
        USNS Mercy, which have demonstrated the value of the Department 
        capacity to deploy maritime medical capabilities worldwide and 
        provide contingency capacity in the United States during 
        significant crises.

SEC. 1260. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE TOTAL NUMBER OF MEMBERS 
              OF THE ARMED FORCES SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY WHO ARE 
              DEPLOYED TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to reduce the total number of members of the 
Armed Forces serving on active duty and deployed to the Republic of 
Korea to fewer than 28,500 such members of the Armed Forces until 90 
days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that--
            (1) such a reduction--
                    (A) is in the national security interest of the 
                United States; and
                    (B) will not significantly undermine the security 
                of United States allies in the region; and
            (2) the Secretary has appropriately consulted with allies 
        of the United States, including the Republic of Korea and 
        Japan, regarding such a reduction.

SEC. 1261. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CO-DEVELOPMENT WITH JAPAN OF A LONG-
              RANGE GROUND-BASED ANTI-SHIP CRUISE MISSILE SYSTEM.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Department of Defense should prioritize 
        consultations with the Ministry of Defense of Japan to 
        determine whether a ground-based, long-range anti-ship cruise 
        missile system would meet shared defense requirements of the 
        United States and Japan; and
            (2) if it is determined that a ground-based, long-range 
        anti-ship cruise missile system would meet shared defense 
        requirements, the United States and Japan should consider co-
        development of such a system.

SEC. 1262. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON COOPERATION IN THE INDO-PACIFIC 
              REGION.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to strengthen alliances and partnerships in the Indo-
        Pacific region and Europe and with like-minded countries around 
        the globe to effectively compete with the People's Republic of 
        China; and
            (2) to work in collaboration with such allies and 
        partners--
                    (A) to address significant diplomatic, economic, 
                and military challenges posed by the People's Republic 
                of China;
                    (B) to deter the People's Republic of China from 
                pursuing military aggression;
                    (C) to promote the peaceful resolution of 
                territorial disputes in accordance with international 
                law;
                    (D) to promote private sector-led long-term 
                economic development while countering efforts by the 
                Government of the People's Republic of China to 
                leverage predatory economic practices as a means of 
                political and economic coercion in the Indo-Pacific 
                region and beyond;
                    (E) to promote the values of democracy and human 
                rights, including through efforts to end the repression 
                by the Chinese Communist Party of political dissidents 
                and Uyghurs and other ethnic Muslim minorities, Tibetan 
                Buddhists, Christians, and other minorities;
                    (F) to respond to the crackdown by the Chinese 
                Communist Party, in contravention of the commitments 
                made under the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984 
                and the Basic Law of Hong Kong, on the legitimate 
                aspirations of the people of Hong Kong; and
                    (G) to counter the Chinese Communist Party's 
                efforts to spread disinformation in the People's 
                Republic of China and beyond with respect to the 
                response of the Chinese Communist Party to COVID-19.

SEC. 1263. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION ON COMMERCIAL EXPORT OF CERTAIN 
              MUNITIONS TO THE HONG KONG POLICE FORCE.

    Section 3 of the Act entitled ``An Act to prohibit the commercial 
export of covered munitions items to the Hong Kong Police Force'', 
approved November 27, 2019 (Public Law 116-77; 133 Stat. 1174), is 
amended by striking ``one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act'' and inserting ``on November 27, 2021''.

SEC. 1264. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ASIA REASSURANCE INITIATIVE ACT WITH 
              REGARD TO TAIWAN ARMS SALES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Department of Defense Indo-Pacific Strategy Report, 
        released on June 1, 2019, states: ``[T]he Asia Reassurance 
        Initiative Act, a major bipartisan legislation, was signed into 
        law by President Trump on December 31, 2018. This legislation 
        enshrines a generational whole-of-government policy framework 
        that demonstrates U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-
        Pacific region and includes initiatives that promote 
        sovereignty, rule of law, democracy, economic engagement, and 
        regional security.''.
            (2) The Indo-Pacific Strategy Report further states: ``The 
        United States has a vital interest in upholding the rules-based 
        international order, which includes a strong, prosperous, and 
        democratic Taiwan. . .The Department [of Defense] is committed 
        to providing Taiwan with defense articles and services in such 
        quantity as may be necessary to enable Taiwan to maintain a 
        sufficient self-defense capability.''.
            (3) Section 209(b) of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act 
        of 2018 (22 U.S.C. 3301 note), signed into law on December 31, 
        2018--
                    (A) builds on longstanding commitments enshrined in 
                the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) to 
                provide Taiwan with defense articles; and
                    (B) states: ``The President should conduct regular 
                transfers of defense articles to Taiwan that are 
                tailored to meet the existing and likely future threats 
                from the People's Republic of China, including 
                supporting the efforts of Taiwan to develop and 
                integrate asymmetric capabilities, as appropriate, 
                including mobile, survivable, and cost-effective 
                capabilities, into its military forces.''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 
        115-409; 132 Stat. 5387) has recommitted the United States to 
        support the close, economic, political, and security 
        relationship between the United States and Taiwan; and
            (2) the United States should fully implement the provisions 
        of that Act with regard to regular defensive arms sales to 
        Taiwan.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
Defense, or their designees, shall brief the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives on the efforts to implement section 209(b) of 
the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (22 U.S.C. 3301 note).

                          Subtitle F--Reports

SEC. 1271. REVIEW OF AND REPORT ON OVERDUE ACQUISITION AND CROSS-
              SERVICING AGREEMENT TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the official 
designated to provide oversight of acquisition and cross-servicing 
agreements under section 2342(f) of title 10, United States Code, shall 
conduct a review of acquisition and cross-servicing transactions for 
which reimbursement to the United States is overdue under section 2345 
of that title.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
        designated official described in subsection (a) shall submit to 
        the congressional defense committees a report on the results of 
        the review.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) For each acquisition and cross-servicing 
                transaction valued at $1,000,000 or more for which 
                reimbursement to the United States was overdue as of 
                October 1, 2019--
                            (i) the total amount of the transaction;
                            (ii) the unreimbursed balance of the 
                        transaction;
                            (iii) the date on which the original 
                        transaction was made;
                            (iv) the date on which the most recent 
                        request for payment was sent to the relevant 
                        foreign partner; and
                            (v) a plan for securing reimbursement from 
                        the foreign partner.
                    (B) A description of the steps taken to implement 
                the recommendations made in the report of the 
                Government Accountability Office entitled ``Defense 
                Logistics Agreements: DOD Should Improve Oversight and 
                Seek Payment from Foreign Partners for Thousands of 
                Orders It Identifies as Overdue'' issued in March 2020, 
                including efforts to validate data reported under this 
                subsection and in the system of record for acquisition 
                and cross-servicing agreements of the Department of 
                Defense.
                    (C) The amount of reimbursement received from 
                foreign partners for each order--
                            (i) for which the reimbursement is recorded 
                        as overdue in the system of record for 
                        acquisition and cross-servicing agreements of 
                        the Department of Defense; and
                            (ii) that was authorized during the period 
                        beginning in October 2013 and ending in 
                        September 2020.
                    (D) A plan for improving recordkeeping of 
                acquisition and cross-servicing transactions and 
                ensuring timely reimbursement by foreign partners.
                    (E) Any other matter considered relevant by the 
                designated official described in subsection (a).

SEC. 1272. REPORT ON BURDEN SHARING CONTRIBUTIONS BY DESIGNATED 
              COUNTRIES.

    Section 2350j of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Report on Contributions Received From Designated Countries.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than January 15 each year, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees 
        of Congress a report on the burden sharing contributions 
        received under this section from designated countries.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following for the preceding fiscal year:
                    ``(A) A list of all designated countries from which 
                burden sharing contributions were received.
                    ``(B) An explanation of the purpose for which each 
                such burden sharing contribution was provided.
                    ``(C) In the case of a written agreement entered 
                into with a designated country under this section--
                            ``(i) the date on which the agreement was 
                        signed; and
                            ``(ii) the names of the individuals who 
                        signed the agreement.
                    ``(D) For each designated country--
                            ``(i) the amount provided by the designated 
                        country; and
                            ``(ii) the amount of any remaining 
                        unobligated balance.
                    ``(E) The amount of such burden sharing 
                contributions expended, by eligible category, including 
                compensation for local national employees, military 
                construction projects, and supplies and services of the 
                Department of Defense.
                    ``(F) An explanation of any other burden sharing or 
                in-kind contribution provided by a designated country 
                under an agreement or authority other than the 
                authority provided by this section.
                    ``(G) Any other matter the Secretary of Defenses 
                considers relevant.
            ``(3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term `appropriate committees of Congress' 
        means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.''.

SEC. 1273. REPORT ON RISK TO PERSONNEL, EQUIPMENT, AND OPERATIONS DUE 
              TO HUAWEI 5G ARCHITECTURE IN HOST COUNTRIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that contains an assessment 
of--
            (1) the risk to personnel, equipment, and operations of the 
        Department of Defense in host countries posed by the current or 
        intended use by such countries of 5G telecommunications 
        architecture provided by Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; and
            (2) measures required to mitigate the risk described in 
        paragraph (1), including the merit and feasibility of the 
        relocation of certain personnel or equipment of the Department 
        to another location without the presence of 5G 
        telecommunications architecture provided by Huawei Technologies 
        Co., Ltd.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in classified form with an unclassified summary.

SEC. 1274. ALLIED BURDEN SHARING REPORT.

    (a) Finding; Sense of Congress.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that section 1003 of the 
        Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985 (Public Law 98-
        525; 63 Stat. 2241)--
                    (A) expresses the sense of Congress that, due to 
                threats that are ever-changing, Congress must be 
                informed with respect to allied contributions to the 
                common defense to properly assess the readiness of the 
                United States and the countries described in subsection 
                (b)(2) for threats; and
                    (B) requires the Secretary of Defense to submit to 
                Congress an annual report on the contributions of 
                allies to the common defense.
            (2) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
                    (A) the threats facing the United States--
                            (i) extend beyond the global war on terror; 
                        and
                            (ii) include near-peer threats; and
                    (B) the President should seek from each country 
                described in subsection (b)(2) acceptance of 
                international security responsibilities and agreements 
                to make contributions to the common defense in 
                accordance with the collective defense agreements or 
                treaties to which such country is a party.
    (b) Reports on Allied Contributions to the Common Defense.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1 each year, the 
        Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the heads of other 
        Federal agencies, as the Secretary determines to be necessary, 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        containing a description of--
                    (A) the annual defense spending by each country 
                described in paragraph (2), including available data on 
                nominal budget figures and defense spending as a 
                percentage of the gross domestic products of each such 
                country for the fiscal year immediately preceding the 
                fiscal year in which the report is submitted;
                    (B) the activities of each such country to 
                contribute to military or stability operations in which 
                the Armed Forces of the United States are a participant 
                or may be called upon in accordance with a cooperative 
                defense agreement to which the United States is a 
                party;
                    (C) any limitations placed by any such country on 
                the use of such contributions; and
                    (D) any actions undertaken by the United States or 
                by other countries to minimize such limitations.
            (2) Countries described.--The countries described in this 
        paragraph are the following:
                    (A) Each member state of the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization.
                    (B) Each member state of the Gulf Cooperation 
                Council.
                    (C) Each country party to the Inter-American Treaty 
                of Reciprocal Assistance (Rio Treaty), done at Rio de 
                Janeiro September 2, 1947, and entered into force 
                December 3, 1948 (TIAS 1838).
                    (D) Australia.
                    (E) Japan.
                    (F) New Zealand.
                    (G) The Philippines.
                    (H) South Korea.
                    (I) Thailand.
            (3) Form.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
        annex.
            (4) Availability.--A report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall be made available on request to any Member of Congress.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1281. RECIPROCAL PATIENT MOVEMENT AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United 
States Code, as amended by section 1241(a), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2350p. Reciprocal patient movement agreements
    ``(a) Authority.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, 
the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
State, may enter into a bilateral or multilateral memorandum of 
understanding or other formal agreement with one or more governments of 
partner countries that provides for--
            ``(1) the interchangeable, nonreimbursable use of patient 
        movement personnel, either individually or as members of a 
        patient movement crew or team, and equipment, belonging to one 
        partner country to perform patient movement services aboard the 
        aircraft, vessels, or vehicles of another partner country;
            ``(2) the reciprocal recognition and acceptance of --
                    ``(A) national professional credentials, 
                certifications, and licenses of patient movement 
                personnel; and
                    ``(B) national certifications, approvals, and 
                licenses of equipment used in the provision of patient 
                movement services; and
            ``(3) the acceptance of agreed-upon standards for the 
        provision of patient movement services by aircraft, vessel, or 
        vehicle, including, as determined to be beneficial and 
        otherwise permitted by law, the harmonization of patient 
        treatment standards and procedures.
    ``(b) Certification.--(1) Before entering into a memorandum of 
understanding or other formal agreement with the government of a 
partner country under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall 
certify in writing that the professional credentials, certifications, 
licenses, and approvals for patient movement personnel and patient 
movement equipment of the partner country--
            ``(A) meet or exceed the equivalent standards of the United 
        States for similar personnel and equipment; and
            ``(B) will provide for a level of care comparable to, or 
        better than, the level of care provided by the Department of 
        Defense.
    ``(2) A certification under paragraph (1) shall be--
            ``(A) submitted to the appropriate committees of Congress 
        not later than 15 days after the date on which the Secretary of 
        Defense makes the certification; and
            ``(B) reviewed and recertified by the Secretary of Defense 
        not less frequently than annually.
    ``(c) Suspension.--If the Secretary of Defense is unable to 
recertify a partner country as required by subsection (b)(2)(B), use of 
the personnel or equipment of the partner country by the Department of 
Defense under a memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement 
concluded pursuant to subsection (a) shall be suspended until the date 
on which the Secretary of Defense is able to recertify the partner 
country.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives.
            ``(2) Partner country.--The term `partner country' means 
        any of the following:
                    ``(A) A member country of the North Atlantic Treaty 
                Organization.
                    ``(B) Australia.
                    ``(C) Japan.
                    ``(D) New Zealand.
                    ``(E) The Republic of Korea.
                    ``(F) Any other country designated as a partner 
                country by the Secretary of Defense, with the 
                concurrence of the Secretary of State, for purposes of 
                this section.
            ``(3) Patient movement.--The term `patient movement' means 
        the act or process of moving wounded, ill, injured, or other 
        persons (including contaminated, contagious, and potentially 
        exposed patients) to obtain medical, surgical, mental health, 
        or dental care or treatment.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter, as amended by section 1241(b), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new item:

``2350p. Reciprocal patient movement agreements.''.

SEC. 1282. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF NON-CONVENTIONAL ASSISTED 
              RECOVERY CAPABILITIES.

    Subsection (g) of section 943 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4578), as most 
recently amended by section 1282(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 
2542) and as redesignated by section 1051(n)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1564), is further amended by striking ``2021'' and inserting ``2024''.

SEC. 1283. EXTENSION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR STABILIZATION 
              ACTIVITIES IN NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED 
              STATES.

    Section 1210A(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2020'' and inserting ``December 31, 2021''.

SEC. 1284. NOTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES PARTICIPATING IN THE MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND 
              OBSERVERS IN EGYPT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days before a reduction in the 
total number of members of the Armed Forces deployed to the 
Multinational Force and Observers in Egypt to fewer than 430 such 
members of the Armed Forces, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a notification that includes the 
following:
            (1) A detailed accounting of the number of members of the 
        Armed Forces to be withdrawn from the Multinational Force and 
        Observers in Egypt and the capabilities that such members of 
        the Armed Forces provide in support of the mission.
            (2) An explanation of national security interests of the 
        United States served by such a reduction and an assessment of 
        the effect, if any, such a reduction is expected to have on the 
        security of United States partners in the region.
            (3) A description of consultations by the Secretary with 
        the other countries that contribute military forces to the 
        Multinational Force and Observers, including Australia, Canada, 
        Colombia, the Czech Republic, Fiji, France, Italy, Japan, New 
        Zealand, Norway, the United Kingdom, and Uruguay, with respect 
        to the planned force reduction and the results of such 
        consultations.
            (4) An assessment of whether other countries, including the 
        countries that contribute military forces to the Multinational 
        Force and Observers, will increase their contributions of 
        military forces to compensate for the capabilities withdrawn by 
        the United States.
            (5) An explanation of--
                    (A) any anticipated negative impact of such a 
                reduction on the ability of the Multinational Force and 
                Observers in Egypt to fulfill its mission of 
                supervising the implementation of the security 
                provisions of the 1979 Treaty of Peace between Egypt 
                and Israel and employing best efforts to prevent any 
                violation of the terms of such treaty; and
                    (B) the manner in which any such negative impact 
                will be mitigated.
            (6) Any other matter the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Form.--The notification required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the congressional defense committees; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1285. MODIFICATION TO INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL 
              SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND 
              OTHER SECURITY THREATS.

    Section 1286 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(C) includes requirements for appropriate senior 
                officials of institutions of higher education to 
                receive from appropriate Government agencies updated 
                and periodic briefings that describe the espionage 
                risks posed by technical intelligence gathering 
                activities of near-peer strategic competitors.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(2)(D), by striking ``improve'' and 
        inserting ``improved''.

SEC. 1286. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL OPERATIONS-TECHNOLOGY 
              WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States Government has a responsibility to 
        undertake all reasonable measures to ensure that members of the 
        Armed Forces never confront a more technologically advanced 
        foe;
            (2) the United States and Israel have several cooperative 
        technology programs to develop and field capabilities in 
        missile defense, countertunneling, and counterunmanned aerial 
        systems; and
            (3) building on positive ongoing efforts, the United States 
        and Israel should further institutionalize and strengthen their 
        defense innovation partnership by establishing a United States-
        Israel Operations-Technology Working Group to identify and 
        expeditiously field capabilities that the military forces of 
        both countries need to deter and defeat respective adversaries.
    (b) United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        consultation with the Minister of Defense of Israel, shall 
        establish a United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working 
        Group (in this subsection referred to as the ``Working Group'') 
        for the following purposes:
                    (A) To provide a standing forum for the United 
                States and Israel to systematically share intelligence-
                informed military capability requirements.
                    (B) To identify military capability requirements 
                common to both the Department of Defense and the 
                Ministry of Defense of Israel.
                    (C) To assist defense suppliers in the United 
                States and Israel, by incorporating recommendations 
                from such defense suppliers, with respect to conducting 
                joint science, technology, research, development, test, 
                evaluation, and production efforts.
                    (D) To develop, as feasible and advisable, combined 
                United States-Israel plans to research, develop, 
                procure, and field weapons systems and military 
                capabilities as quickly and economically as possible to 
                meet common capability requirements of the Department 
                of Defense and the Ministry of Defense of Israel.
            (2) Working group leadership.--
                    (A) United states leadership.--With respect to the 
                United States, the Working Group shall be headed by--
                            (i) the Secretary, or a designee; and
                            (ii) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
                        Staff, or a designee.
                    (B) Israel leadership.--The Secretary shall invite 
                the Government of Israel to designate the head of the 
                appropriate office or offices to head the Working Group 
                with respect to Israel.
            (3) Working group membership.--
                    (A) United states membership.--The Secretary, in 
                consultation with other Cabinet members, shall 
                designate one or more individuals to serve as members 
                of the Working Group.
                            (i) Mandatory united states members.--The 
                        membership of the Working Group shall consist 
                        of, at a minimum, representatives from--
                                    (I) the Office of the Secretary of 
                                Defense;
                                    (II) the Joint Staff;
                                    (III) each of the military 
                                departments (including, as appropriate, 
                                subordinate entities such as Army 
                                Futures Command and research 
                                laboratories);
                                    (IV) the defense agencies 
                                (including the Defense Advanced 
                                Research Projects Agency, the Defense 
                                Intelligence Agency, and the Defense 
                                Security Cooperation Agency);
                                    (V) United States Central Command; 
                                and
                                    (VI) United States European 
                                Command.
                            (ii) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                        subparagraph shall be construed as limiting the 
                        ability of the Secretary to add members to the 
                        Working Group, as considered appropriate.
                    (B) Israel membership.--The Secretary shall invite 
                such representatives of the Government of Israel to 
                designate individuals from the Government of Israel to 
                serve as members of the Working Group, as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
            (4) Existing efforts.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall determine the 
                most efficient and effective means to integrate the 
                Working Group into existing United States science and 
                technology efforts and research, development, test, and 
                evaluation efforts with Israel.
                    (B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                subsection shall be construed as requiring the 
                termination of any existing United States defense 
                activity, group, program, or partnership with Israel.
            (5) Memorandum of understanding.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall, with the 
                concurrence of the Minister of Defense of Israel, 
                establish a memorandum of understanding between the 
                United States and Israel establishing the United 
                States-Israel Operations Technology Working Group.
                    (B) Matters to be included.--The memorandum of 
                understanding under subparagraph (A) shall set forth--
                            (i) the purposes of the Working Group, 
                        consistent with paragraph (1);
                            (ii) the membership of the Working Group, 
                        consistent with paragraph (3); and
                            (iii) any other matter considered 
                        appropriate.
            (6) Reports.--
                    (A) Initial report.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than 180 days 
                        after the establishment of the Working Group, 
                        the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
                        committees of Congress an initial report on the 
                        Working Group.
                            (ii) Elements.--The report required by 
                        clause (i) shall include the following:
                                    (I) The finalized memorandum of 
                                understanding under paragraph (5).
                                    (II) The name of each individual of 
                                the Government of the United States and 
                                of the Government of Israel designated 
                                to lead the Working Group.
                                    (III) The name of each member of 
                                the Working Group designated under 
                                subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph 
                                (3).
                                    (IV) A description of the manner in 
                                which the Working Group is anticipated 
                                to complement and augment existing 
                                science and technology efforts and 
                                research, development, test, and 
                                evaluation efforts with Israel.
                                    (V) A schedule for Working Group 
                                meetings.
                                    (VI) A description of key metrics 
                                and milestones for the Working Group.
                                    (VII) A description of any 
                                authority or authorization of 
                                appropriations required for the Working 
                                Group to carry out the purposes 
                                described in paragraph (1).
                            (iii) Form.--The report required by clause 
                        (i) shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
                        but may include a classified annex.
                    (B) Annual report.--
                            (i) In general.--Not later than March 15 of 
                        each year following the submittal of the 
                        initial report required by subparagraph (A), 
                        the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
                        committees of Congress a report on the 
                        activities of the Working Group during the 
                        preceding calendar year.
                            (ii) Elements.--The report required by 
                        clause (i) shall include the following:
                                    (I) A summary of the performance of 
                                the Working Group--
                                            (aa) with respect to the 
                                        first annual report under this 
                                        subparagraph, the metrics and 
                                        milestones described in the 
                                        initial report in accordance 
                                        with subparagraph (A)(ii)(VI); 
                                        or
                                            (bb) with respect to each 
                                        subsequent annual report under 
                                        this subparagraph, the metrics 
                                        and milestones described in the 
                                        preceding annual report under 
                                        subclause (VIII).
                                    (II) A description of military 
                                capabilities needed by both the United 
                                States and Israel.
                                    (III) A description of any United 
                                States, or any United States-Israel, 
                                science and technology efforts, or 
                                research, development, test, and 
                                evaluation efforts, associated with the 
                                military capabilities described under 
                                subclause (II) carried out during the 
                                reporting period.
                                    (IV) A description of any obstacle 
                                or challenge associated with an effort 
                                described in subclause (III) and the 
                                plan of the Working Group to address 
                                such obstacle or challenge.
                                    (V) A description of any request to 
                                the Working Group made by a United 
                                States or Israel defense supplier for 
                                combined science and technology efforts 
                                or combined research, development, 
                                test, and evaluation efforts, 
                                including--
                                            (aa) the date on which the 
                                        request was received;
                                            (bb) the efforts made by 
                                        the Working Group to 
                                        expeditiously address the 
                                        request; and
                                            (cc) the status of any 
                                        decision associated with the 
                                        request.
                                    (VI) A description of the efforts 
                                of the Working Group to prevent the 
                                People's Republic of China or the 
                                Russian Federation from obtaining 
                                intellectual property or military 
                                technology associated with combined 
                                United States and Israel science and 
                                technology efforts and research, 
                                development, test, and evaluation 
                                efforts.
                                    (VII) A description of any science 
                                and technology effort, or research, 
                                development, test, or evaluation 
                                effort, facilitated by the Working 
                                Group, including efforts that result in 
                                a United States or Israel program of 
                                record.
                                    (VIII) A description of metrics and 
                                milestones for the Working Group for 
                                the following calendar year.
                            (iii) Form.--Each report required by clause 
                        (i) shall be submitted in unclassified form and 
                        shall include a classified annex in which the 
                        elements required under subclauses (II) and 
                        (VI) of clause (ii) shall be addressed.
                    (C) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In 
                this paragraph, the term ``appropriate committees of 
                Congress'' means--
                            (i) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                        Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select 
                        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                        Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent 
                        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                        of Representatives.

SEC. 1287. IMPROVED COORDINATION OF UNITED STATES SANCTIONS POLICY.

    (a) Office of Sanctions Coordination of the Department of State.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1 of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection 
                (h); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (f) the 
                following:
    ``(g) Office of Sanctions Coordination.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established, within the 
        Department of State, an Office of Sanctions Coordination (in 
        this subsection referred to as the `Office').
            ``(2) Head.--The head of the Office shall--
                    ``(A) have the rank and status of ambassador;
                    ``(B) be appointed by the President, by and with 
                the advice and consent of the Senate; and
                    ``(C) report directly to the Secretary.
            ``(3) Duties.--The head of the Office shall--
                    ``(A) exercise sanctions authorities delegated to 
                the Secretary;
                    ``(B) serve as the principal advisor to the senior 
                management of the Department and the Secretary 
                regarding the development and implementation of 
                sanctions policy;
                    ``(C) serve as the lead representative of the 
                United States in diplomatic engagement on sanctions 
                matters;
                    ``(D) consult and closely coordinate with allies 
                and partners of the United States, including the United 
                Kingdom, the European Union and member countries of the 
                European Union, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, 
                and South Korea, to ensure the maximum effectiveness of 
                sanctions imposed by the United States and such allies 
                and partners;
                    ``(E) serve as the coordinator for the development 
                and implementation of sanctions policy with respect to 
                all activities, policies, and programs of all bureaus 
                and offices of the Department relating to the 
                development and implementation of sanctions policy; and
                    ``(F) serve as the lead representative of the 
                Department in interagency discussions with respect to 
                the development and implementation of sanctions policy.
            ``(4) Direct hire authority.--The head of the Office may 
        appoint, without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 
        through 3318 of title 5, United States Code, candidates 
        directly to positions in the competitive service, as defined in 
        section 2102 of that title, in the Office.''.
            (2) Briefing required.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter 
        until the date that is 2 years after such date of enactment, 
        the Secretary of State shall brief the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the efforts of the Department of 
        State to establish the Office of Sanctions Coordination 
        pursuant to section 1(g) of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by paragraph (1), including 
        a description of--
                    (A) measures taken to implement the requirements of 
                that section and to establish the Office;
                    (B) actions taken by the Office to carry out the 
                duties listed in paragraph (3) of that section;
                    (C) the resources devoted to the Office, including 
                the number of employees working in the Office; and
                    (D) plans for the use of the direct hire authority 
                provided under paragraph (4) of that section.
    (b) Coordination With Allies and Partners of the United States.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall develop and 
        implement mechanisms and programs, as appropriate, through the 
        head of the Office of Sanctions Coordination established 
        pursuant to section 1(g) of the State Department Basic 
        Authorities Act of 1956, as amended by subsection (a)(1), to 
        coordinate the development and implementation of United States 
        sanctions policies with allies and partners of the United 
        States, including the United Kingdom, the European Union and 
        member countries of the European Union, Canada, Australia, New 
        Zealand, Japan, and South Korea.
            (2) Information sharing.--The Secretary should pursue the 
        development and implementation of mechanisms and programs under 
        paragraph (1), as appropriate, that involve the sharing of 
        information with respect to policy development and sanctions 
        implementation.
            (3) Capacity building.--The Secretary should pursue 
        efforts, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury and 
        the head of any other agency the Secretary considers 
        appropriate, to assist allies and partners of the United 
        States, including the countries specified in paragraph (1), as 
        appropriate, in the development of their legal and technical 
        capacities to develop and implement sanctions authorities.
            (4) Exchange programs.--In furtherance of the efforts 
        described in paragraph (3), the Secretary, in coordination with 
        the Secretary of the Treasury and the head of any other agency 
        the Secretary considers appropriate, may enter into agreements 
        with counterpart agencies in foreign governments establishing 
        exchange programs for the temporary detail of government 
        employees to share information and expertise with respect to 
        the development and implementation of sanctions authorities.
            (5) Briefing required.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days 
        thereafter until the date that is 5 years after such date of 
        enactment, the Secretary of State shall brief the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the efforts of the Department of 
        State to implement this section, including a description of--
                    (A) measures taken to implement paragraph (1);
                    (B) actions taken pursuant to paragraphs (2) 
                through (4);
                    (C) the extent of coordination between the United 
                States and allies and partners of the United States, 
                including the countries specified in paragraph (1), 
                with respect to the development and implementation of 
                sanctions policy; and
                    (D) obstacles preventing closer coordination 
                between the United States and such allies and partners 
                with respect to the development and implementation of 
                sanctions policy.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
President should appoint a coordinator for sanctions and national 
economic security issues within the framework of the National Security 
Council.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on 
        Finance of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Financial Services, and the Committee on Way and Means of the 
        House of Representatives.

    Subtitle H--Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostage-Taking 
                           Accountability Act

SEC. 1291. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Robert Levinson Hostage 
Recovery and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act''.

SEC. 1292. ASSISTANCE FOR UNITED STATES NATIONALS UNLAWFULLY OR 
              WRONGFULLY DETAINED ABROAD.

    (a) Review.--The Secretary of State shall review the cases of 
United States nationals detained abroad to determine if there is 
credible information that they are being detained unlawfully or 
wrongfully, based on criteria which may include whether--
            (1) United States officials receive or possess credible 
        information indicating innocence of the detained individual;
            (2) the individual is being detained solely or 
        substantially because he or she is a United States national;
            (3) the individual is being detained solely or 
        substantially to influence United States Government policy or 
        to secure economic or political concessions from the United 
        States Government;
            (4) the detention appears to be because the individual 
        sought to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote freedom of the 
        press, freedom of religion, or the right to peacefully 
        assemble;
            (5) the individual is being detained in violation of the 
        laws of the detaining country;
            (6) independent nongovernmental organizations or 
        journalists have raised legitimate questions about the 
        innocence of the detained individual;
            (7) the United States mission in the country where the 
        individual is being detained has received credible reports that 
        the detention is a pretext for an illegitimate purpose;
            (8) the individual is detained in a country where the 
        Department of State has determined in its annual human rights 
        reports that the judicial system is not independent or 
        impartial, is susceptible to corruption, or is incapable of 
        rendering just verdicts;
            (9) the individual is being detained in inhumane 
        conditions;
            (10) due process of law has been sufficiently impaired so 
        as to render the detention arbitrary; and
            (11) United States diplomatic engagement is likely 
        necessary to secure the release of the detained individual.
    (b) Referrals to the Special Envoy.--Upon a determination by the 
Secretary of State, based on the totality of the circumstances, that 
there is credible information that the detention of a United States 
national abroad is unlawful or wrongful, and regardless of whether the 
detention is by a foreign government or a nongovernmental actor, the 
Secretary shall transfer responsibility for such case from the Bureau 
of Consular Affairs of the Department of State to the Special Envoy for 
Hostage Affairs created pursuant to section 1293.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) Annual report.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of State shall 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees an 
                annual report with respect to United States nationals 
                for whom the Secretary determines there is credible 
                information of unlawful or wrongful detention abroad.
                    (B) Form.--The report required under this paragraph 
                shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
                include a classified annex if necessary.
            (2) Composition.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include current estimates of the number of individuals so 
        detained, as well as relevant information about particular 
        cases, such as--
                    (A) the name of the individual, unless the 
                provision of such information is inconsistent with 
                section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
                known as the ``Privacy Act of 1974'');
                    (B) basic facts about the case;
                    (C) a summary of the information that such 
                individual may be detained unlawfully or wrongfully;
                    (D) a description of specific efforts, legal and 
                diplomatic, taken on behalf of the individual since the 
                last reporting period, including a description of 
                accomplishments and setbacks; and
                    (E) a description of intended next steps.
    (d) Resource Guidance.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act and after consulting with relevant 
        organizations that advocate on behalf of United States 
        nationals detained abroad and the Family Engagement Coordinator 
        established pursuant to section 1294(c)(2), the Secretary of 
        State shall provide resource guidance in writing for government 
        officials and families of unjustly or wrongfully detained 
        individuals.
            (2) Content.--The resource guidance required under 
        paragraph (1) should include--
                    (A) information to help families understand United 
                States policy concerning the release of United States 
                nationals unlawfully or wrongfully held abroad;
                    (B) contact information for officials in the 
                Department of State or other government agencies suited 
                to answer family questions;
                    (C) relevant information about options available to 
                help families obtain the release of unjustly or 
                wrongfully detained individuals, such as guidance on 
                how families may engage with United States diplomatic 
                and consular channels to ensure prompt and regular 
                access for the detained individual to legal counsel, 
                family members, humane treatment, and other services;
                    (D) guidance on submitting public or private 
                letters from members of Congress or other individuals 
                who may be influential in securing the release of an 
                individual; and
                    (E) appropriate points of contacts, such as legal 
                resources and counseling services, who have a record of 
                assisting victims' families.

SEC. 1293. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR HOSTAGE AFFAIRS.

    (a) Establishment.--There shall be a Special Presidential Envoy for 
Hostage Affairs, appointed by the President, who shall report to the 
Secretary of State.
    (b) Rank.--The Special Envoy shall have the rank and status of 
ambassador.
    (c) Responsibilities.--The Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage 
Affairs shall--
            (1) lead diplomatic engagement on United States hostage 
        policy;
            (2) coordinate all diplomatic engagements and strategy in 
        support of hostage recovery efforts, in coordination with the 
        Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell and consistent with policy 
        guidance communicated through the Hostage Response Group;
            (3) in coordination with the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell 
        as appropriate, coordinate diplomatic engagements regarding 
        cases in which a foreign government has detained a United 
        States national and the United States Government regards such 
        detention as unlawful or wrongful;
            (4) provide senior representation from the Special Envoy's 
        office to the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell established under 
        section 1294 and the Hostage Response Group established under 
        section 1295; and
            (5) ensure that families of United States nationals 
        unlawfully or wrongly detained abroad receive updated 
        information about developments in cases and government policy.

SEC. 1294. HOSTAGE RECOVERY FUSION CELL.

    (a) Establishment.--The President shall establish an interagency 
Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell.
    (b) Participation.--The President shall direct the heads of each of 
the following executive departments, agencies, and offices to make 
available personnel to participate in the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell:
            (1) The Department of State.
            (2) The Department of the Treasury.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Department of Justice.
            (5) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (6) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (7) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (8) Other agencies as the President, from time to time, may 
        designate.
    (c) Personnel.--The Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell shall include--
            (1) a Director, who shall be a full-time senior officer or 
        employee of the United States Government;
            (2) a Family Engagement Coordinator who shall--
                    (A) work to ensure that all interactions by 
                executive branch officials with a hostage's family 
                occur in a coordinated fashion and that the family 
                receives consistent and accurate information from the 
                United States Government; and
                    (B) if directed, perform the same function as set 
                out in subparagraph (A) with regard to the family of a 
                United States national who is unlawfully or wrongfully 
                detained abroad; and
            (3) other officers and employees as deemed appropriate by 
        the President.
    (d) Duties.--The Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell shall--
            (1) coordinate efforts by participating agencies to ensure 
        that all relevant information, expertise, and resources are 
        brought to bear to secure the safe recovery of United States 
        nationals held hostage abroad;
            (2) if directed, coordinate the United States Government's 
        response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which the 
        United States has a national interest;
            (3) if directed, coordinate or assist the United States 
        Government's response to help secure the release of United 
        States nationals unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad; and
            (4) pursuant to policy guidance coordinated through the 
        National Security Council--
                    (A) identify and recommend hostage recovery options 
                and strategies to the President through the National 
                Security Council or the Deputies Committee of the 
                National Security Council;
                    (B) coordinate efforts by participating agencies to 
                ensure that information regarding hostage events, 
                including potential recovery options and engagements 
                with families and external actors (including foreign 
                governments), is appropriately shared within the United 
                States Government to facilitate a coordinated response 
                to a hostage-taking;
                    (C) assess and track all hostage-takings of United 
                States nationals abroad and provide regular reports to 
                the President and Congress on the status of such cases 
                and any measures being taken toward the hostages' safe 
                recovery;
                    (D) provide a forum for intelligence sharing and, 
                with the support of the Director of National 
                Intelligence, coordinate the declassification of 
                relevant information;
                    (E) coordinate efforts by participating agencies to 
                provide appropriate support and assistance to hostages 
                and their families in a coordinated and consistent 
                manner and to provide families with timely information 
                regarding significant events in their cases;
                    (F) make recommendations to agencies in order to 
                reduce the likelihood of United States nationals' being 
                taken hostage abroad and enhance United States 
                Government preparation to maximize the probability of a 
                favorable outcome following a hostage-taking; and
                    (G) coordinate with agencies regarding 
                congressional, media, and other public inquiries 
                pertaining to hostage events.
    (e) Administration.--The Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell shall be 
located within the Federal Bureau of Investigation for administrative 
purposes.

SEC. 1295. HOSTAGE RESPONSE GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--The President shall establish a Hostage 
Response Group, chaired by a designated member of the National Security 
Council or the Deputies Committee of the National Security Council, to 
be convened on a regular basis, to further the safe recovery of United 
States nationals held hostage abroad or unlawfully or wrongfully 
detained abroad, and to be tasked with coordinating the United States 
Government response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which 
the United States has a national interest.
    (b) Membership.--The regular members of the Hostage Response Group 
shall include the Director of the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, the 
Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell's Family Engagement Coordinator, the 
Special Envoy appointed pursuant to section 1293, and representatives 
from the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the 
Department of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Office 
of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central Intelligence 
Agency, and other agencies as the President, from time to time, may 
designate.
    (c) Duties.--The Hostage Recovery Group shall--
            (1) identify and recommend hostage recovery options and 
        strategies to the President through the National Security 
        Council;
            (2) coordinate the development and implementation of United 
        States hostage recovery policies, strategies, and procedures;
            (3) receive regular updates from the Hostage Recovery 
        Fusion Cell and the Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs on the 
        status of United States nationals being held hostage or 
        unlawfully or wrongfully detained abroad and measures being 
        taken to effect safe recoveries;
            (4) coordinate the provision of policy guidance to the 
        Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, including reviewing recovery 
        options proposed by the Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell and 
        working to resolve disputes within the Hostage Recovery Fusion 
        Cell;
            (5) as appropriate, direct the use of resources at the 
        Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell to coordinate or assist in the 
        safe recovery of United States nationals unlawfully or 
        wrongfully detained abroad; and
            (6) as appropriate, direct the use of resources at the 
        Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell to coordinate the United States 
        Government response to other hostage-takings occurring abroad 
        in which the United States has a national interest.
    (d) Meetings.--The Hostage Response Group shall meet regularly.
    (e) Reporting.--The Hostage Response Group shall regularly provide 
recommendations on hostage recovery options and strategies to the 
National Security Council.

SEC. 1296. AUTHORIZATION OF IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The President may impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President 
determines, based on credible evidence--
            (1) is responsible for or is complicit in, or responsible 
        for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the hostage-
        taking of a United States national abroad or the unlawful or 
        wrongful detention of a United States national abroad; or
            (2) knowingly provides financial, material, or 
        technological support for, or goods or services in support of, 
        an activity described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole.--
                    (A) Visas, admission, or parole.--An alien 
                described in subsection (a) may be--
                            (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                            (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                        documentation to enter the United States; and
                            (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted 
                        or paroled into the United States or to receive 
                        any other benefit under the Immigration and 
                        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--
                            (i) In general.--An alien described in 
                        subsection (a) may be subject to revocation of 
                        any visa or other entry documentation 
                        regardless of when the visa or other entry 
                        documentation is or was issued.
                            (ii) Immediate effect.--A revocation under 
                        clause (i) may--
                                    (I) take effect immediately; and
                                    (II) cancel any other valid visa or 
                                entry documentation that is in the 
                                alien's possession.
            (2) Blocking of property.--
                    (A) In general.--The President may exercise all of 
                the powers granted to the President under the 
                International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
                1701 et seq.), to the extent necessary to block and 
                prohibit all transactions in property and interests in 
                property of a foreign person described in subsection 
                (a) if such property and interests in property are in 
                the United States, come within the United States, or 
                are or come within the possession or control of a 
                United States person.
                    (B) Inapplicability of national emergency 
                requirement.--The requirements of section 202 of the 
                International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
                1701) shall not apply for purposes of this section.
    (c) Exceptions.--
            (1) Exception for intelligence activities.--Sanctions under 
        this section shall not apply to any activity subject to the 
        reporting requirements under title V of the National Security 
        Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized 
        intelligence activities of the United States.
            (2) Exception to comply with international obligations and 
        for law enforcement activities.--Sanctions under subsection 
        (b)(1) shall not apply with respect to an alien if admitting or 
        paroling the alien into the United States is necessary--
                    (A) to permit the United States to comply with the 
                Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
                Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
                entered into force November 21, 1947, between the 
                United Nations and the United States, or other 
                applicable international obligations; or
                    (B) to carry out or assist law enforcement activity 
                in the United States.
    (d) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (b)(2) or any 
regulation, license, or order issued to carry out that subsection shall 
be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of 
section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (e) Termination of Sanctions.--The President may terminate the 
application of sanctions under this section with respect to a person if 
the President determines that--
            (1) information exists that the person did not engage in 
        the activity for which sanctions were imposed;
            (2) the person has been prosecuted appropriately for the 
        activity for which sanctions were imposed;
            (3) the person has credibly demonstrated a significant 
        change in behavior, has paid an appropriate consequence for the 
        activity for which sanctions were imposed, and has credibly 
        committed to not engage in an activity described in subsection 
        (a) in the future; or
            (4) the termination of the sanctions is in the national 
        security interests of the United States.
    (f) Reporting Requirement.--If the President terminates sanctions 
pursuant to subsection (d), the President shall report to the 
appropriate congressional committees a written justification for such 
termination within 15 days.
    (g) Implementation of Regulatory Authority.--The President may 
exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) 
to carry out this section.
    (h) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--
            (1) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
        sanctions authorized under this subtitle shall not include the 
        authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the 
        importation of goods.
            (2) Good defined.--In this paragraph, the term ``good'' 
        means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, 
        supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test 
        equipment, and excluding technical data.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means--
                    (A) any citizen or national of a foreign country 
                (including any such individual who is also a citizen or 
                national of the United States); or
                    (B) any entity not organized solely under the laws 
                of the United States or existing solely in the United 
                States.
            (2) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) an individual who is a United States citizen or 
                an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to 
                the United States;
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or any jurisdiction within the United 
                States, including a foreign branch of such an entity; 
                or
                    (C) any person in the United States.

SEC. 1297. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on the 
                Judiciary, the Committee on Armed Services, and the 
                Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial Services, 
                the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Armed 
                Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
                Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
            (2) United states national.--The term ``United States 
        national'' means--
                    (A) a United States national as defined in section 
                101(a)(22) or section 308 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), 8 U.S.C. 1408); 
                and
                    (B) a lawful permanent resident alien with 
                significant ties to the United States.

SEC. 1298. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to authorize a private 
right of action.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

SEC. 1301. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE 
              THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Of the $288,490,000 authorized to be appropriated 
to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 in section 301 and 
made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 
1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes 
specified:
            (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $2,924,000.
            (2) For chemical security and elimination, $11,806,000.
            (3) For global nuclear security, $20,152,000.
            (4) For biological threat reduction, $177,396,000.
            (5) For proliferation prevention, $52,064,000.
            (6) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
        Administrative Costs, $24,148,000.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal years 2021, 2022, and 2023.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
            (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions 
        in accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
        Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
            (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the 
        United States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.

SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.

SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of 
eligible beneficiaries.

                Subtitle B--Armed Forces Retirement Home

SEC. 1411. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
              HOME.

    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

SEC. 1412. PERIODIC INSPECTIONS OF ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME 
              FACILITIES BY NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED ACCREDITING 
              ORGANIZATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 1518 of the Armed Forces Retirement Home 
Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 418) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 1518. PERIODIC INSPECTION OF RETIREMENT HOME FACILITIES.

    ``(a) Inspections.--The Chief Operating Officer shall request the 
inspection of each facility of the Retirement Home by a nationally 
recognized civilian accrediting organization in accordance with section 
1511(g) on a frequency consistent with the standards of such 
organization.
    ``(b) Availability of Staff and Records.--The Chief Operating 
Officer and the Administrator of a facility being inspected under this 
section shall make all staff, other personnel, and records of the 
facility available to the civilian accrediting organization in a timely 
manner for purposes of inspections under this section.
    ``(c) Reports.--Not later than 60 days after receiving a report on 
an inspection from the civilian accrediting organization under this 
section, the Chief Operating Officer shall submit to the Secretary of 
Defense, the Senior Medical Advisor, and the Advisory Council a report 
containing--
            ``(1) the results of the inspection; and
            ``(2) a plan to address any recommendations and other 
        matters set forth in the report.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 
1991 (24 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) is further amended as follows:
            (1) In section 1513A(c)(2) (24 U.S.C. 413a(c)(2)), by 
        striking ``(including requirements identified in applicable 
        reports of the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Defense)''.
            (2) In section 1516(b)(3) (24 U.S.C. 416(b)(3))--
                    (A) by striking ``shall--'' and all that follows 
                through ``provide for'' and inserting ``shall provide 
                for'';
                    (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; 
                and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (B).
            (3) In section 1517(e)(2) (24 U.S.C. 417(e)(2)), by 
        striking ``the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Defense,''.

SEC. 1413. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR RESIDENCE AT THE ARMED FORCES 
              RETIREMENT HOME.

    (a) Expansion of Eligibility.--Section 1512(a) of the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 412(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``active'' in the first sentence;
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``are 60 years of age or 
        over and''; and
            (3) by adding the following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Persons who are eligible for retired pay under 
        chapter 1223 of title 10, United States Code, and--
                    ``(A) are eligible for care under section 1710 of 
                title 38, United States Code;
                    ``(B) are enrolled in coverage under chapter 55 of 
                title 10, United States Code; or
                    ``(C) are enrolled in a qualified health plan 
                acceptable to the Chief Operating Officer.''.
    (b) Parity of Fees and Deductions.--Section 1514(c) of such Act (24 
U.S.C. 414(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (2)
    ``(2)(A) The fee shall be fixed as a percentage of the monthly 
income and monthly payments (including Federal payments) received by a 
resident. The percentage shall be the same for each facility of the 
Retirement Home. The Secretary of Defense may make any adjustment in a 
percentage that the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(B) The calculation of monthly income and monthly payments under 
subparagraph (A) for a resident eligible under section 1512(a)(5) shall 
not be less than the retirement pay for equivalent active duty service 
as determined by the Chief Operating Officer, except as the Chief 
Operating Officer may provide because of compelling personal 
circumstances.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The Administrator of each facility of the Retirement Home may 
collect a fee upon admission from a resident accepted under section 
1512(a)(5) equal to the deductions then in effect under section 
1007(i)(1) of title 37, United States Code, for each year of non-
regular service, and shall deposit such fee in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1007(i)(3) of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``Armed Forces Retirement Home 
Board'' and inserting ``Chief Operating Officer of the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home''.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 1421. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY 
              DEMONSTRATION FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH 
              CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.

    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $130,400,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571).
    (b) Treatment of Transferred Funds.--For purposes of subsection 
(a)(2) of such section 1704, any funds transferred under subsection (a) 
shall be treated as amounts authorized and appropriated specifically 
for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (c) Use of Transferred Funds.--For purposes of subsection (b) of 
such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 to provide additional funds 
for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed 
Forces.

SEC. 1502. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in 
such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)(A)(ii)).

SEC. 1503. PROCUREMENT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.

SEC. 1504. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.

SEC. 1505. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4302.

SEC. 1506. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.

SEC. 1507. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1508. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1509. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.

SEC. 1510. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2021 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.

    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.

SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.

    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
            (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of 
        Defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, 
        the Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made 
        available to the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal 
        year 2021 between any such authorizations for that fiscal year 
        (or any subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so 
        transferred shall be merged with and be available for the same 
        purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
            (2) Limitation.--The total amount of authorizations that 
        the Secretary may transfer under the authority of this 
        subsection may not exceed $2,000,000,000.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 1531. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.

    (a) Extension of Availability of Funds for Security of Afghan 
Women.--Subsection (c)(1) of section 1520 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended, 
in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``fiscal year 
2020'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2021''.
    (b) Assessment of Afghanistan Progress on Objectives.--Subsection 
(d) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``June 1, 2020'' and inserting ``March 1, 
                2021'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting ``, including specific milestones achieved 
                since the date on which the 2020 progress report was 
                submitted;'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) the efforts of the Government of the Islamic 
                Republic of Afghanistan to fulfill the commitments of 
                the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
                under the Joint Declaration between the Islamic 
                Republic of Afghanistan and the United States of 
                America for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan, issued on 
                February 29, 2020.'';
            (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Matters to be included.--In conducting the assessment 
        required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall 
        include each of the following:
                    ``(A) The progress made by the Government of the 
                Islamic Republic of Afghanistan toward increased 
                accountability and the reduction of corruption within 
                the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior of 
                the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
                    ``(B) The extent to which the Government of the 
                Islamic Republic of Afghanistan has designated the 
                appropriate staff, prioritized the development of 
                relevant processes, and provided or requested the 
                allocation of resources necessary to support a peace 
                and reconciliation process in Afghanistan.
                    ``(C) The extent to which the capability and 
                capacity of the Afghan National Defense and Security 
                Forces have improved as a result of Afghanistan 
                Security Forces Fund investment, including through 
                training, and an articulation of the metrics used to 
                assess such improvements.
                    ``(D) The extent to which the Afghan National 
                Defense and Security Forces have been successful in--
                            ``(i) defending territory, re-taking 
                        territory, and disrupting attacks;
                            ``(ii) reducing the use of Afghan National 
                        Defense and Security Forces checkpoints; and
                            ``(iii) curtailing the use of Afghan 
                        Special Security Forces for missions that are 
                        better suited to general purpose forces.
                    ``(E) The distribution practices of the Afghan 
                National Defense and Security Forces and whether the 
                Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is 
                ensuring that supplies, equipment, and weaponry 
                supplied by the United States are appropriately 
                distributed to, and employed by, security forces.
                    ``(F) The progress made with respect to the 
                recruitment, integration, retention, training, and 
                treatment of women in the Afghan National Defense and 
                Security Forces.
                    ``(G) The extent to which the Government of the 
                Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is adhering to 
                conditions for receiving assistance established in 
                annual financial commitment letters or any other 
                bilateral agreement with the United States.
                    ``(H) Such other factors as the Secretaries 
                consider appropriate.''; and
            (3) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
            ``(4) Withholding of funds for insufficient progress.--
                    ``(A) Certification.--Not later than December 31, 
                2020, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
                the Secretary of State and pursuant to the assessment 
                under paragraph (1), shall submit to the congressional 
                defense committees a certification indicating whether 
                the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
                has made sufficient progress in the areas described in 
                paragraph (2).
                    ``(B) Withholding of funds.--If the Secretary of 
                Defense is unable under subparagraph (A) to certify 
                that the Government of the Islamic Republic of 
                Afghanistan is making sufficient progress in the areas 
                described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense 
                shall--
                            ``(i) withhold from expenditure and 
                        obligation an amount that is not less than 5 
                        percent and not more than 15 percent of the 
                        amounts made available for assistance for the 
                        Afghan National Defense and Security Forces for 
                        fiscal year 2021 until the date on which the 
                        Secretary is able to so certify; and
                            ``(ii) notify the congressional defense 
                        committees not later than 30 days before 
                        withholding such funds and indicate the 
                        specific areas of insufficient progress.
                    ``(C) Waiver.--If the Secretary of Defense 
                determines that withholding such funds would impede the 
                national security objectives of the United States by 
                prohibiting, restricting, delaying, or otherwise 
                limiting the provision of assistance to the Afghan 
                National Defense and Security Forces for fiscal year 
                2021, the Secretary may waive the withholding 
                requirement under subparagraph (B) if the Secretary, in 
                coordination with the Secretary of State, certifies 
                such determination to the congressional defense 
                committees not later than 30 days before the effective 
                date of the waiver.''.
    (c) Additional Reporting Requirements.--Subsection (e) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``fiscal year 2021'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2022'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``fiscal year 2019'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2020'';
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2021''; and
            (4) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) If the amounts described in paragraph (2) exceed the 
        amount described in paragraph (1)--
                    ``(A) an explanation as to why such amounts are 
                greater; and
                    ``(B) a detailed description of the specific 
                entities and purposes that were supported by such 
                increase.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Such section is further amended by 
striking ``Government of Afghanistan'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan''.

SEC. 1532. TRANSITION AND ENHANCEMENT OF INSPECTOR GENERAL AUTHORITIES 
              FOR AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate to commend the 
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, and the 
Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, 
for--
            (1) dedicated and faithful service to the United States 
        since their establishment in the 2008; and
            (2) promoting substantial efficiency and effectiveness in 
        the administration of programs and operations funded with 
        amounts for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
    (b) Purposes.--Subsection (a) of section 1229 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (5 U.S.C. app. 8G note) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ``To provide for'' 
        the following: ``the transition to the lead Inspector General 
        for Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to section 
        8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. app. 
        8L(d)) of all duties, responsibilities, and authorities for 
        serving''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) To maximize coordination between the Inspector 
        General under this section and the lead Inspector General for 
        Operation Freedom's Sentinel, including through transparency 
        and timely sharing of data and information collected in 
        relation to the exercise of their respective duties, 
        responsibilities, and authorities, with emphasis on matters of 
        significant overlap between the Department of State, the United 
        States Agency for International Development, and the Department 
        of Defense.''.
    (c) Assistant Inspector General for Auditing.--Subsection (d)(1) of 
such section is amended by striking ``supported by'' and inserting 
``funded with''.
    (d) Supervision.--Subsection (e)(2) of such section is amended by 
inserting ``authorized by this section'' after ``any audit or 
investigation''.
    (e) Duties.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by adding ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (F);
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraph (G) as 
                subparagraph (F); and
                    (D) in subparagraph (F), as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C) of this paragraph--
                            (i) by inserting ``with such funds'' after 
                        ``overpayments,''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``regarding such funds,'' 
                        after ``or affiliated entities'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Inspector General'' and 
                inserting ``As specified in this section, the Inspector 
                General''; and
                    (B) by striking ``as the Inspector General 
                considers appropriate'' and inserting ``as necessary''; 
                and
            (3) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (4):
            ``(4) Scope of duties and responsibilities.--
                    ``(A) No extension to particular matters.--The 
                duties and responsibilities of the Inspector General 
                under paragraphs (1) through (3) shall not extend to 
                the following:
                            ``(i) Military operations or activities 
                        (including security assistance or cooperation), 
                        unless such operations or activities are funded 
                        using a Fund or account specified in subsection 
                        (n)(1).
                            ``(ii) Contracts for personal security.
                    ``(B) Assignment of duties and responsibilities for 
                such matters.--Duties and responsibilities of 
                inspectors general with respect to operations and 
                activities and contracts specified in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be discharged by the lead Inspector General for 
                Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to 
                section 8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978.''.
    (f) Responsibility for Coordination of Efforts Vested in Lead IG 
for Operation Freedom's Sentinel.--Such section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (g) through (o) as 
        subsections (h) through (p), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsection (g):
    ``(g) Coordination and Deconfliction of Efforts.--
            ``(1) Coordination and deconfliction through lead ig for 
        operation freedom's sentinel.--The lead Inspector General for 
        Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to section 
        8L(d) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 shall exercise all 
        duties, responsibilities, and authorities for the coordination 
        and deconfliction of inspector general activities in or in 
        regard to Afghanistan.
            ``(2) Coordination in discharge.--In carrying out duties, 
        responsibilities, and authorities under paragraph (1), the lead 
        Inspector General referred to in that paragraph shall 
        coordinate with, receive the cooperation of, and be responsible 
        for deconfliction among, the following:
                    ``(A) Each Inspector General specified in section 
                8L(c) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 who is not 
                the lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's 
                Sentinel.
                    ``(B) The Inspector General under this section.''.
    (g) Assistance From Federal Agencies.--Subsection (i) of such 
section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting ``pertaining to the 
        exercise by the Inspector General of duties, responsibilities, 
        or authorities specified in subsection (f)'' after 
        ``information and assistance''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (6).
    (h) Reports.--Subsection (j) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking the matter preceding subparagraph 
                (A) and inserting the following new matter:
            ``(1) Semi-annual reports.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the end of the second quarter of each fiscal year, and not 
        later than 30 days after the end of the fourth quarter of each 
        fiscal year, the Inspector General shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report setting forth a 
        summary, for the two fiscal year quarters ending before the 
        date on which such report is required to be submitted, of the 
        activities of the Inspector General and the activities under 
        programs and operations funded with amounts appropriated or 
        otherwise made available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. 
        Each report shall include, for the period covered by such 
        report, the following:'';
                    (B) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
                following new subparagraph (A):
                    ``(A) A detailed statement of all obligations and 
                expenditures of amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
                available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``projects 
                and programs funded by amounts appropriated or 
                otherwise made available'' after ``costs incurred to 
                date for''; and
                    (D) in subparagraphs (C) and (D), by striking 
                ``funded by any department or agency of the United 
                States Government'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``funded by amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
                available for the reconstruction of Afghanistan''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``that involves the use'' 
        and all that follows and inserting ``that is funded by amounts 
        appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction 
        of Afghanistan.''.
    (i) Report Coordination.--Subsection (k) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``by Inspector 
        General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel'' after ``Report 
        Coordination'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and the Secretary of 
        Defense'' and inserting ``, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
        lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel 
        designated pursuant to section 8L(d) of the Inspector General 
        Act of 1978''; and
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or the Secretary of 
        Defense'' each place it appears and inserting ``, the Secretary 
        of Defense, or the lead Inspector General referred to in 
        paragraph (1)''.
    (j) Funds Subject to Oversight Responsibility.--Paragraph (1) of 
subsection (n) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (f)(1) of 
this section, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for 
        the reconstruction of afghanistan.--The term `amounts 
        appropriated or otherwise made available for the reconstruction 
        of Afghanistan' means amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
        available for any fiscal year for the reconstruction of 
        Afghanistan under either of the following:
                    ``(A) The Economic Support Fund.
                    ``(B) The International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement account.
                    ``(C) The Commanders Emergency Response Program 
                Fund.
                    ``(D) The NATO Afghanistan National Army Trust 
                Fund.
                    ``(E) The Drug Interdiction and Counter Drug 
                Activities Fund.
                    ``(F) The Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.''.
    (k) Termination.--Subsection (p) of such section, as redesignated 
by subsection (f)(1) of this section, is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs.
            ``(2) Assumption of duties, responsibilities, and 
        authorities in termination.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Effective as of the date 
                provided for in subparagraph (B), the duties, 
                responsibilities, and authorities of the Inspector 
                General under this section shall be discharged by the 
                lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel 
                designated pursuant to subsection (d) of section 8L of 
                the Inspector General Act of 1978.
                    ``(B) Effective date.--The effective date provided 
                for in this subparagraph shall be such date after the 
                date of the termination of the Office of the Special 
                Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction 
                pursuant to paragraph (1) as the Chair of the Council 
                of Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency under 
                subsection (a) of section 8L of the Inspector General 
                Act of 1978 shall specify, which date may not be more 
                than 180 days after the date of such termination.
            ``(3) Final report.--The final report of the Inspector 
        General under this section shall consist of the semi-annual 
        report required by subsection (j)(1) for the last two fiscal 
        year quarters ending before the date of the termination of the 
        Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
        Reconstruction pursuant to paragraph (1).''.
    (l) Conforming and Technical Amendments.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), such section is 
        further amended as follows:
                    (A) In subsection (a)(2)(A), by inserting a comma 
                after ``economy''.
                    (B) Subsection (a)(3) is amended to read as such 
                subsection read as of the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Paragraph (4) of subsection (a) is repealed.
                    (D) In subsection (f)(1)(E), by striking ``fund'' 
                and inserting ``funds''.
                    (E) In subsections (l) and (m), as redesignated by 
                subsection (f)(1) of this section--
                            (i) by striking ``subsection (i)'' each 
                        place it appears and inserting ``subsection 
                        (j)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection (j)(2)'' each 
                        place it appears and inserting ``subsection 
                        (k)(2)''.
            (2) Effective dates.--The amendments made by subparagraphs 
        (A), (D) and (E) of paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act. The amendment made by 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C) of that paragraph shall take effect 
        on the effective date provided for in section 1229(p)(2)(B) of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, as 
        redesignated by subsection (f)(1) and amended by subsection 
        (k).
    (m) Conforming Amendment to Other Law.--Section 842(c) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 122 Stat. 234; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Special Inspector 
        General for Iraq Reconstruction''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Upon the assumption by the lead Inspector General for 
Operation Freedom's Sentinel designated pursuant to section 8L(d) of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. app. 8L(d)) of duties, 
responsibilities, and authorities under section 1229 of this Act, as 
provided for in subsection (p)(2) of such section 1229, the requirement 
in paragraph (1) to perform audits as required by subsection (a) with 
respect to Afghanistan shall be discharged by such lead Inspector 
General.''.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. RESILIENT AND SURVIVABLE POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING 
              CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, consistent with the timescale applicable to 
joint urgent operational needs statements, the Secretary of Defense 
shall--
            (1) prioritize and rank order the mission elements, 
        platforms, and weapons systems most critical for the 
        operational plans of the combatant commands;
            (2) mature, test, and produce for such prioritized mission 
        elements sufficient equipment--
                    (A) to generate resilient and survivable 
                alternative positioning, navigation, and timing 
                signals; and
                    (B) to process resilient survivable data provided 
                by signals of opportunity and on-board sensor systems; 
                and
            (3) integrate and deploy such equipment into the 
        prioritized operational systems, platforms, and weapons 
        systems.
    (b) Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a plan to commence carrying 
        out subsection (a) in fiscal year 2021.
            (2) Reprogramming and budget proposals.--The plan submitted 
        under paragraph (1) may include any reprogramming or 
        supplemental budget request the Secretary considers necessary 
        to carry out subsection (a).
    (c) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall consult with the National Security Council, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, the Secretary of Transportation, and the head of any 
other relevant Federal department or agency to enable civilian and 
commercial adoption of technologies and capabilities for resilient and 
survivable alternative positioning, navigation, and timing capabilities 
to complement the global positioning system.

SEC. 1602. DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH 
              PROVIDERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall establish a 
program to develop technologies and systems to enhance phase three 
National Security Space Launch requirements and enable further advances 
in launch capability associated with the insertion of national security 
payloads into relevant classes of orbits.
    (b) Duration.--The duration of a project to develop technologies 
and systems selected under the program shall be not more than three 
years.
    (c) Program Expense Ceiling.--The total amount expended under the 
program shall not exceed $250,000,000.
    (d) Sunset.--The program established under this section shall 
terminate on October 1, 2027.

SEC. 1603. TIMELINE FOR NONRECURRING DESIGN VALIDATION FOR RESPONSIVE 
              SPACE LAUNCH.

    Not later than 540 days after the date on which the Secretary of 
the Air Force selects two National Security Space Launch providers in 
accordance with the phase two acquisition strategy for the National 
Security Space Launch program, the Secretary of Defense shall complete 
the nonrecurring design validation of previously flown launch hardware 
for National Security Space Launch providers that offer such hardware 
for use in the phase two acquisition strategy or other national 
security space missions.

SEC. 1604. TACTICALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force shall implement a tactically 
responsive space launch program--
            (1) to provide long-term continuity for tactically 
        responsive space launch operations across the future-years 
        defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of 
        title 10, United States Code;
            (2) to accelerate the development of--
                    (A) responsive launch concepts of operations;
                    (B) tactics;
                    (C) training; and
                    (D) procedures;
            (3) to develop appropriate processes for tactically 
        responsive space launch, including--
                    (A) mission assurance processes; and
                    (B) command and control, tracking, telemetry, and 
                communications; and
            (4) to identify basing capabilities necessary to enable 
        tactically responsive space launch, including mobile launch 
        range infrastructure.

SEC. 1605. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO REESTABLISHMENT OF SPACE 
              COMMAND.

    (a) Certifications Regarding Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack 
Assessment Mission of the Air Force.--Section 1666(a) of National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 113 
Stat. 2617) is amended by striking ``Strategic Command'' and inserting 
``Space Command''.
    (b) Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense Positioning, 
Navigation, and Timing Enterprise.--Section 2279b of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (7), (8), (9), and 
                (10) as paragraphs (8), (9), (10), and (11), 
                respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following 
                new paragraph (7):
            ``(7) The Commander of the United States Space Command.''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``Strategic Command'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``Space Command''.
    (c) Joint Interagency Combined Space Operations Center.--Section 
605(e) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
(Public Law 115-31; 131 Stat. 832) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Joint 
        Interagency Combined Space Operations Center'' and inserting 
        ``National Space Defense Center''; and
            (2) by striking ``Strategic Command'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Space Command''; and
            (3) by striking ``Joint Interagency Combined Space 
        Operations Center'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``National Space Defense Center''.
    (d) National Security Space Satellite Reporting Policy.--Section 
2278(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``Strategic Command'' and inserting ``Space Command''.
    (e) Space-based Infrared System and Advanced Extremely High 
Frequency Program.--Section 1612(a)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for 2017 (Public Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2590) is 
amended by striking ``Strategic Command'' and inserting ``Space 
Command''.

SEC. 1606. SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS AND 
              TRANSFER TO SPACE FORCE.

    (a) Development.--The Director of the Space Development Agency 
shall lead--
            (1) the development and demonstration of a resilient 
        military space-based sensing, tracking, and data transport 
        architecture that primarily uses a proliferated low-Earth 
        orbit; and
            (2) the integration of next-generation space capabilities, 
        and sensor and tracking components (including a hypersonic and 
        ballistic missile-tracking space sensor payload), into such 
        architecture to address the requirements and needs of the Armed 
        Forces and combatant commands for such capabilities.
    (b) Organization.--On October 1, 2022, or earlier if directed by 
the Secretary of Defense, the Space Development Agency shall be 
transferred from the Office of the Secretary of Defense to the United 
States Space Force and shall maintain the same organizational reporting 
requirements and acquisition authorities as the Space Rapid Capability 
Office.

SEC. 1607. SPACE LAUNCH RATE ASSESSMENT.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
and biennially thereafter for the following five-year period, the 
Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees an assessment that includes--
            (1) the total number of space launches for all national 
        security and Federal civil agency entities conducted in the 
        United States during the preceding two-year period; and
            (2) the number of space launches by the same sponsors 
        projected to occur during the following three-year period, 
        including--
                    (A) the number of launches, disaggregated by class 
                of launch vehicle; and
                    (B) the number of payloads, disaggregated by 
                orbital destination.

SEC. 1608. REPORT ON IMPACT OF ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR THE NATIONAL 
              SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH PROGRAM ON EMERGING FOREIGN SPACE 
              LAUNCH PROVIDERS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to Congress a report on the 
impact of the acquisition strategy for the National Security Space 
Launch program on the potential for foreign countries, including the 
People's Republic of China, to enter the global commercial space launch 
market.

SEC. 1609. LEVERAGING COMMERCIAL SATELLITE REMOTE SENSING.

    (a) In General.--In acquiring geospatial-intelligence, the 
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office and the Director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency, shall leverage, to the maximum extent practicable, 
the capabilities of United States industry, including through the use 
of commercial geospatial-intelligence services and acquisition of 
commercial satellite imagery.
    (b) Obtaining Future Geospatial-intelligence Data.--The Director of 
the National Reconnaissance Office, as part of an analysis of 
alternatives for the future acquisition of space systems for 
geospatial-intelligence, shall--
            (1) consider whether there is a suitable, cost-effective, 
        commercial capability available that can meet any or all of the 
        geospatial-intelligence requirements of the Department and the 
        intelligence community;
            (2) if a suitable, cost-effective, commercial capability is 
        available as described in paragraph (1), determine whether it 
        is in the national interest to develop a governmental space 
        system for geospatial intelligence; and
            (3) include, as part of the established acquisition 
        reporting requirements to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress, any determination made under paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees;
                    (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate; and
                    (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (2) The term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

                 Subtitle B--Cyberspace-Related Matters

SEC. 1611. MODIFICATION OF POSITION OF PRINCIPAL CYBER ADVISOR.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (c) of section 932 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Principal Cyber Advisor.--
            ``(1) Designation.--The Secretary shall designate a 
        Principal Cyber Advisor from among those civilian officials of 
        the Department of Defense who have been appointed to the 
        positions in which they serve by the President, by and with the 
        advice and consent of the Senate.
            ``(2) Responsibilities.--The Principal Cyber Advisor shall 
        be responsible for the following:
                    ``(A) Acting as the principal advisor to the 
                Secretary on military cyber forces and activities.
                    ``(B) Overall integration of Cyber Operations 
                Forces activities relating to cyberspace operations, 
                including associated policy and operational 
                considerations, resources, personnel, technology 
                development and transition, and acquisition.
                    ``(C) Assessing and overseeing the implementation 
                of the cyber strategy of the Department and execution 
                of the cyber posture review of the Department on behalf 
                of the Secretary.
                    ``(D) Coordinating activities pursuant to 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (c)(3) with the 
                Principal Information Operations Advisor, the Chief 
                Information Officer of the Department, and other 
                officials as determined by the Secretary of Defense, to 
                ensure the integration of activities in support of 
                cyber, information, and electromagnetic spectrum 
                operations.
                    ``(E) Such other matters relating to the offensive 
                military cyber forces of the Department as the 
                Secretary shall specify for the purposes of this 
                subsection.
            ``(3) Cross-functional team.--Consistent with section 911 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 
        (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 111 note), the Principal Cyber 
        Advisor shall--
                    ``(A) integrate the cyber expertise and 
                perspectives of appropriate organizations within the 
                Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, 
                military departments, the Defense Agencies and Field 
                Activities, and combatant commands, by establishing and 
                maintaining a full-time cross-functional team of 
                subject matter experts from those organizations; and
                    ``(B) select team members, and designate a team 
                leader, from among those personnel nominated by the 
                heads of such organizations.''.
    (b) Designation of Deputy Principal Cyber Advisor.--Section 
905(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by striking ``Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy'' and inserting ``Secretary of Defense''.

SEC. 1612. FRAMEWORK FOR CYBER HUNT FORWARD OPERATIONS.

    (a) Framework Required.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
Secretary of Defense shall develop a standard, comprehensive framework 
to enhance the consistency, execution, and effectiveness of cyber hunt 
forward operations.
    (b) Elements.--The framework developed pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) Identification of the selection criteria for proposed 
        hunt forward operations, including specification of necessary 
        thresholds for the justification of operations and thresholds 
        for partner cooperation.
            (2) The roles and responsibilities of the following 
        organizations in the support of the planning and execution of 
        hunt forward operations:
                    (A) United States Cyber Command.
                    (B) Service cyber components.
                    (C) The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Policy.
                    (D) Geographic combatant commands.
                    (E) Cyber Operations-Integrated Planning Elements 
                and Joint Cyber Centers.
                    (F) Embassies and consulates of the United States.
            (3) Pre-deployment planning guidelines to maximize the 
        operational success of each unique operation, including 
        guidance that takes into account the highly variable nature of 
        the following aspects at the tactical level:
                    (A) Team composition, including necessary 
                skillsets, recommended training, and guidelines on team 
                size and structure.
                    (B) Relevant factors to determine mission duration 
                in a country of interest.
                    (C) Agreements with partner countries required pre-
                deployment.
                    (D) Criteria for potential follow-on operations.
                    (E) Equipment and infrastructure required to 
                support the missions.
            (4) Metrics to measure the effectiveness of each operation, 
        including means to evaluate the value of discovered malware and 
        infrastructure, the effect on the adversary, and the potential 
        for future engagements with the partner country.
            (5) Roles and responsibilities for United States Cyber 
        Command and the National Security Agency in the analysis of 
        relevant mission data.
            (6) Such other matters as the Secretary determines 
        relevant.
    (c) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the House of Representatives a briefing on the framework 
        developed pursuant to subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An overview of the framework developed in 
                subsection (a).
                    (B) An explanation of the tradeoffs associated with 
                the use of Department of Defense resources for hunt 
                forward missions in the context of competing 
                priorities.
                    (C) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have 
                for legislative action to improve the effectiveness of 
                hunt forward missions.

SEC. 1613. MODIFICATION OF SCOPE OF NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR 
              SENSITIVE MILITARY CYBER OPERATIONS.

    Subsection (c) of section 395 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Sensitive Military Cyber Operation Defined.--(1) In this 
section, the term `sensitive military cyber operation' means an action 
described in paragraph (2) that--
            ``(A) is carried out by the armed forces of the United 
        States;
            ``(B) is intended to achieve a cyber effect against a 
        foreign terrorist organization or a country, including its 
        armed forces and the proxy forces of that country located 
        elsewhere --
                    ``(i) with which the armed forces of the United 
                States are not involved in hostilities (as that term is 
                used in section 4 of the War Powers Resolution (50 
                U.S.C. 1543)); or
                    ``(ii) with respect to which the involvement of the 
                armed forces of the United States in hostilities has 
                not been acknowledged publicly by the United States; 
                and
            ``(C)(i) is determined to--
                    ``(I) have a medium or high collateral effects 
                estimate;
                    ``(II) have a medium or high intelligence gain or 
                loss;
                    ``(III) have a medium or high probability of 
                political retaliation, as determined by the political 
                military assessment contained within the associated 
                concept of operations;
                    ``(IV) have a medium or high probability of 
                detection when detection is not intended; or
                    ``(V) result in medium or high collateral effects; 
                or
            ``(ii) is a matter the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate.
    ``(2) The actions described in this paragraph are the following:
            ``(A) An offensive cyber operation.
            ``(B) A defensive cyber operation.''.

SEC. 1614. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR QUARTERLY DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE CYBER OPERATIONS BRIEFINGS FOR CONGRESS.

    Section 484 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(a) Briefings Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Policy, the Commander of United States Cyber Command, and the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or designees from each of their offices, 
shall provide to the congressional defense committees quarterly 
briefings on all offensive and significant defensive military 
operations in cyberspace, including clandestine cyber activities, 
carried out by the Department of Defense during the immediately 
preceding quarter.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the military operations in cyberspace described in such 
subsection, the following:
            ``(1) An update, set forth separately for each applicable 
        geographic and functional command, that describes the 
        operations carried out in the area of operations of that 
        command or by that command.
            ``(2) An update, set forth for each applicable geographic 
        and functional command, that describes defensive cyber 
        operations executed to protect or defend forces, networks, and 
        equipment in the area of operations of that command.
            ``(3) An update on relevant authorities and legal issues 
        applicable to operations, including any presidential directives 
        and delegations of authority received since the last quarterly 
        update.
            ``(4) An overview of critical operational challenges posed 
        by major adversaries or encountered in operational activities 
        conducted since the last quarterly update.
            ``(5) An overview of the readiness of the Cyber Mission 
        Forces to perform assigned missions that--
                    ``(A) addresses all of the abilities of such Forces 
                to conduct cyberspace operations based on capability 
                and capacity of personnel, equipment, training, and 
                equipment condition--
                            ``(i) using both quantitative and 
                        qualitative metrics; and
                            ``(ii) in a way that is common to all 
                        military departments; and
                    ``(B) is consistent with readiness reporting 
                pursuant to section 482 of this title.
            ``(6) Any other matters that the briefers determine to be 
        appropriate.
    ``(c) Documents.--Each briefing under subsection (a) shall include 
a classified placemat, summarizing the elements specified in paragraphs 
(1), (2), (3), and (5) of subsection (b), and an unclassified 
memorandum, summarizing the briefing's contents.''.

SEC. 1615. RATIONALIZATION AND INTEGRATION OF PARALLEL CYBERSECURITY 
              ARCHITECTURES AND OPERATIONS.

    (a) Review Required.--The Commander of United States Cyber Command, 
with support from the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense, the Chief Data Officer of the Department, the Principal Cyber 
Advisor, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
Director of Cost Analysis and Program Evaluation, shall conduct a 
review of the Cybersecurity Service Provider and Cyber Mission Force 
enterprises.
    (b) Assessment and Identification of Redundancies and Gaps.--The 
review required by subsection (a) shall assess and identify--
            (1) the optimal way to integrate the Joint Cyber 
        Warfighting Architecture and the Cybersecurity Service Provider 
        architectures, associated tools and capabilities, and 
        associated concepts of operations;
            (2) redundancies and gaps in network sensor deployment and 
        data collection and analysis for the--
                    (A) Big Data Platform;
                    (B) Joint Regional Security Stacks; and
                    (C) Security Information and Event Management 
                capabilities;
            (3) where integration, collaboration, and interoperability 
        are not occurring that would improve outcomes;
            (4) baseline training, capabilities, competencies, 
        operational responsibilities, and joint concepts of operations 
        for the Joint Force Headquarters for the Department of Defense 
        Information Network, Cybersecurity Service Providers, and Cyber 
        Protection Teams;
            (5) the roles and responsibilities of the Principal Cyber 
        Advisor, Chief Information Officer, and the Commander of United 
        States Cyber Command in establishing and overseeing the 
        baselines assessed and identified under paragraph (4);
            (6) the optimal command structure for the military 
        services' and combatant commands' cybersecurity service 
        providers and cyber protection teams;
            (7) the responsibilities of network owners and 
        cybersecurity service providers in mapping, configuring, 
        instrumenting, and deploying sensors on networks to best 
        support response of cyber protection teams when assigned to 
        defend unfamiliar networks; and
            (8) operational concepts and engineering changes to enhance 
        remote access and operations of cyber protection teams on 
        networks through tools and capabilities of the Cybersecurity 
        Service Providers.
    (c) Recommendations for Fiscal Year 2023 Budget.--The Chief 
Information Officer, the Chief Data Officer, the Commander of United 
States Cyber Command, and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall jointly 
develop recommendations for the Secretary of Defense in preparation of 
the budget justification materials to be submitted to Congress in 
support of the budget for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2023 (as submitted with the budget of the President for such fiscal 
year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code).
    (d) Progress Briefing.--Not later than March 31, 2021, the Chief 
Information Officer, the Chief Data Officer, the Commander of United 
States Cyber Command, and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall jointly 
provide a briefing to the congressional defense committees on the 
progress made in carrying out this section.

SEC. 1616. MODIFICATION OF ACQUISITION AUTHORITY OF COMMANDER OF UNITED 
              STATES CYBER COMMAND.

    Section 807 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (e) and (i); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (f) through (h) as 
        subsections (e) through (g), respectively.

SEC. 1617. ASSESSMENT OF CYBER OPERATIONAL PLANNING AND DECONFLICTION 
              POLICIES AND PROCESSES.

    (a) Assessment.--Not later than November 1, 2021, the Principal 
Cyber Advisor of the Department of Defense and the Commander of United 
States Cyber Command shall jointly, in coordination with the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Policy, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Intelligence and Security, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff, conduct and complete an assessment on the operational planning 
and deconfliction policies and processes that govern cyber operations 
of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include evaluations as to whether--
            (1) the joint targeting cycle and relevant operational and 
        targeting databases are suitable for the conduct of timely and 
        well-coordinated cyber operations;
            (2) each of the policies and processes in effect to 
        facilitate technical, operational, and capability deconfliction 
        are appropriate for the conduct of timely and effective cyber 
        operations;
            (3) intelligence gain-loss decisions made by Cyber Command 
        are sufficiently well-informed and made in timely fashion;
            (4) relevant intelligence data and products are 
        consistently available and distributed to relevant planning and 
        operational elements in Cyber Command;
            (5) collection operations and priorities meet the 
        operational requirements of Cyber Command; and
            (6) authorities relevant to intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance and operational preparation of the environment 
        are delegated to the appropriate level.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2022, the Principal Cyber 
Advisor and the Commander of United States Cyber Command shall provide 
to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
Armed Services of the House of Representatives a briefing on the 
findings of the assessment completed under subsection (a), including 
discussion of planned policy and process changes, if any, relevant to 
cyber operations.

SEC. 1618. PILOT PROGRAM ON CYBERSECURITY CAPABILITY METRICS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting 
through the Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense and 
the Commander of United States Cyber Command, shall conduct a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of developing and 
using speed-based metrics to measure the performance and effectiveness 
of security operations centers and cyber security service providers in 
the Department of Defense.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) Development of metrics.--(A) Not later than July 1, 
        2021, the Chief Information Officer and the Commander shall 
        jointly develop metrics described in subsection (a) to carry 
        out the pilot program under such subsection.
            (B) The Chief Information Officer and the Commander shall 
        ensure that the metrics developed under subparagraph (A) are 
        commensurate with the representative timelines of nation-state 
        and non-nation-state actors when gaining access to, and 
        compromising, Department networks.
            (2) Use of metrics.--(A) Not later than December 1, 2021, 
        the Secretary shall, in carrying out the pilot program required 
        by subsection (a), begin using the metrics developed under 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection to assess select security 
        operations centers and cyber security service providers, which 
        the Secretary shall select specifically for purposes of the 
        pilot program, for a period of not less than four months.
            (B) In carrying out the pilot program under subsection (a), 
        the Secretary shall evaluate the effectiveness of operators, 
        capabilities available to operators, and operators' tactics, 
        techniques, and procedures.
    (c) Authorities.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may--
            (1) assess select security operations centers and cyber 
        security service providers--
                    (A) over the course of their mission performance; 
                or
                    (B) in the testing and accreditation of 
                cybersecurity products and services on test networks 
                designated pursuant to section 1658 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
                Law 116-92); and
            (2) assess select elements' use of security orchestration 
        and response technologies, modern endpoint security 
        technologies, Big Data Platform instantiations, and 
        technologies relevant to zero trust architectures.
    (d) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2022, the 
        Secretary shall brief the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives on the findings of the Secretary with respect 
        to the pilot program required by subsection (a).
            (2) Elements.--The briefing provided under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The pilot metrics developed under subsection 
                (b)(1).
                    (B) The findings of the Secretary with respect to 
                the assessments carried out under subsection (b)(2).
                    (C) An analysis of the utility of speed-based 
                metrics in assessing security operations centers and 
                cyber security service providers.
                    (D) An analysis of the utility of the extension of 
                the pilot metrics to or speed-based assessment of the 
                Cyber Mission Forces.
                    (E) An assessment of the technical and procedural 
                measures that would be necessary to meet the speed-
                based metrics developed and applied in the pilot 
                program.

SEC. 1619. ASSESSMENT OF EFFECT OF INCONSISTENT TIMING AND USE OF 
              NETWORK ADDRESS TRANSLATION IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              NETWORKS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Defense shall conduct 
comprehensive assessments as follows:
            (1) Timing variability in department networks.--The Chief 
        Information Officer shall characterize--
                    (A) timing variability across Department 
                information technology and operational technology 
                networks, appliances, devices, applications, and 
                sensors that generate time-stamped data and metadata 
                used for cybersecurity purposes;
                    (B) how timing variability affects current, 
                planned, and potential capabilities for detecting 
                network intrusions that rely on correlating events and 
                the sequence of events; and
                    (C) how to harmonize standard of timing across 
                Department networks.
            (2) Use of network address translation.--The Chief 
        Information Officer shall characterize--
                    (A) why and how the Department is using Network 
                Address Translation (NAT) and multiple layers and 
                nesting of Network Address Translation;
                    (B) how using Network Address Translation affects 
                the ability to link malicious communications detected 
                at various network tiers to specific endpoints or hosts 
                to enable prompt additional investigations, quarantine 
                decisions, and remediation activities; and
                    (C) what steps and associated cost and schedule are 
                necessary to eliminate the use of Network Address 
                Translation or to otherwise provide transparency to 
                network defenders, including options to accelerate the 
                transition from Internet Protocol version 4 to Internet 
                Protocol version 6.
    (b) Recommendation.--The Chief Information Officer and the 
Principal Cyber Advisor shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a 
recommendation to address the assessments conducted under subsection 
(a), including whether and how to revise the cyber strategy of the 
Department.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than April 1, 2021, the Chief Information 
Officer shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
findings of the Chief Information Officer with respect to the 
assessments conducted under subsection (a) and the recommendation 
submitted under subsection (b).

SEC. 1620. MATTERS CONCERNING THE COLLEGE OF INFORMATION AND CYBERSPACE 
              AT NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY.

    (a) Prohibition.--The Secretary of Defense may not eliminate, 
divest, downsize, or reorganize the College of Information and 
Cyberspace of the National Defense University, or seek to reduce the 
number of students educated at the College, until 30 days after the 
date on which the congressional defense committees receive the report 
required by subsection (c).
    (b) Assessment, Determination, and Review.--The Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Personnel and Readiness, the Principal Cyber Advisor, the Principal 
Information Operations Advisor of the Department of Defense, the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department, the Chief Financial Officer of 
the Department, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the 
Commander of United States Cyber Command, shall--
            (1) assess requirements for joint professional military 
        education and civilian leader education in the information 
        environment and cyberspace domain to support the Department and 
        other national security institutions of the Federal Government;
            (2) determine whether the importance, challenges, and 
        complexity of the modern information environment and cyberspace 
        domain warrant--
                    (A) a college at the National Defense University, 
                or a college independent of the National Defense 
                University whose leadership is responsible to the 
                Office of the Secretary of Defense; and
                    (B) the provision of resources, services, and 
                capacity at levels that are the same as, or decreased 
                or enhanced in comparison to, those resources, 
                services, and capacity in place at the College of 
                Information and Cyberspace on January 1, 2019;
            (3) review the plan proposed by the National Defense 
        University for eliminating the College of Information and 
        Cyberspace and reducing and restructuring the information and 
        cyberspace faculty, course offerings, joint professional 
        military education and degree and certificate programs, and 
        other services provided by the College; and
            (4) assess the changes made to the College of Information 
        and Cyberspace since January 1, 2019, and the actions necessary 
        to reverse those changes, including relocating the College and 
        its associated budget, faculty, staff, students, and facilities 
        outside of the National Defense University.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on--
            (1) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
        assessments, determination, and review conducted under 
        subsection (b); and
            (2) such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        higher education in the information environment and cyberspace 
        domain.

SEC. 1621. MODIFICATION OF MISSION OF CYBER COMMAND AND ASSIGNMENT OF 
              CYBER OPERATIONS FORCES.

    Section 167b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by inserting ``(1)'' 
                before ``With the advice'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), as designated by subparagraph 
                (A), by striking the second sentence; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2) The principal mission of the cyber command is to direct, 
synchronize, and coordinate cyber planning and operations to defend and 
advance national interests in collaboration with domestic and 
international partners.''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Assignment of Forces.--(1) Active and reserve cyber forces of 
the armed forces shall be assigned to the cyber command through the 
Global Force Management Process, as approved by the Secretary of 
Defense.
    ``(2) Cyber forces not assigned to cyber command remain assigned to 
combatant commands or service-retained.''.

SEC. 1622. INTEGRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE USER ACTIVITY 
              MONITORING AND CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) Integration of Plans, Capabilities, and Systems.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall integrate the plans, capabilities, and systems for 
user activity monitoring, and the plans, capabilities, and systems for 
endpoint cybersecurity and the collection of metadata on network 
activity for cybersecurity to enable mutual support and information 
sharing.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) consider using the Big Data Platform instances that 
        host cybersecurity metadata for storage and analysis of all 
        user activity monitoring data collected across the Department 
        of Defense Information Network at all security classification 
        levels;
            (2) develop policies and procedures governing access to 
        user activity monitoring data or data derived from user 
        activity monitoring by cybersecurity operators; and
            (3) develop processes and capabilities for using metadata 
        on host and network activity for user activity monitoring in 
        support of the insider threat mission.
    (c) Congressional Briefing.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the 
Secretary shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense 
committees on actions taken to carry out this section.

SEC. 1623. DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE CYBERSECURITY SENSOR ARCHITECTURE 
              PLAN.

    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the Principal 
Cyber Advisor of the Department of Defense, in consultation with the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department, the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Intelligence and Security, and the Commander of United States Cyber 
Command, shall develop a comprehensive plan for the deployment of 
commercial-off-the-shelf solutions on supplier networks to monitor the 
public-facing Internet attack surface in the defense industrial base.
    (b) Contents.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) Definition of an architecture, concept of operations, 
        and governance structure that--
                    (A) will allow for the instrumentation and 
                collection of cybersecurity data on the public-facing 
                Internet attack surfaces of defense industrial base 
                contractors in a manner that is compatible with the 
                Department's existing or future capabilities for 
                analysis, and instrumentation and collection, as 
                appropriate, of cybersecurity data within the 
                Department of Defense Information Network;
                    (B) includes the expected scale, schedule, and 
                guiding principles of deployment;
                    (C) is consistent with the defense industrial base 
                cybersecurity policies and programs of the Under 
                Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
                and the Chief Information Officer; and
                    (D) includes an acquisition strategy for sensor 
                capabilities that optimizes required capability, 
                scalability, cost, and intelligence and cybersecurity 
                requirements.
            (2) Roles and responsibilities of the persons referred to 
        in subsection (a) in implementing and executing the plan.
    (c) Consultation.--In developing the plan required by subsection 
(a), the Principal Cyber Advisor shall ensure that extensive 
consultation with representative companies of the defense industrial 
base occurs so as to ensure that prospective participants in the 
defense industrial base understand and agree that emerging solutions 
are acceptable, practical, and effective.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Principal Cyber 
Advisor shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives on the plan developed pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 1624. EXTENSION OF CYBERSPACE SOLARIUM COMMISSION TO TRACK AND 
              ASSESS IMPLEMENTATION.

    Section 1652 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232), as amended by section 
1639 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 
(Public Law 116-92), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``under clauses (iv) 
                through (vii) of subparagraph (A)'' and inserting 
                ``under clauses (v) through (viii) of subparagraph 
                (A)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                    ``(iv) Effective on the date of the enactment of 
                the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2021, the composition of the Commission shall not 
                include clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph 
                (A).'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``Seven members 
        shall'' and inserting ``Seven members, during the period 
        beginning on the date of the establishment of the Commission 
        and ending on the day before the date of the enactment of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, and 
        six members, during the period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of such Act and ending on the date of the termination 
        of the Commission, shall'';
            (3) in subsection (i)(1)(B)--
                    (A) by striking ``Members of the Commission who'' 
                inserting ``(i) During the period beginning on the date 
                of the establishment of the Commission and ending on 
                the day before the date of the enactment of the 
                National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2021, members of the Commission who''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new clause:
            ``(ii) During the period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of such Act and ending on the date of the termination 
        of the Commission, members of the Commission who are Members of 
        Congress shall receive no additional pay by reason of their 
        service on the Commission.''; and
            (4) in subsection (k)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``120 day 
                period'' and inserting ``16 month period with no 
                further extensions permitted'';
                    (B) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as 
                follows:
            ``(B) The Commission may use the 16 month period referred 
        to in subparagraph (A) for the purposes of--
                    ``(i) collecting and assessing comments and 
                feedback from the Federal departments and agencies, as 
                well as published reviews, on the analysis and 
                recommendations contained in the final report under 
                paragraph (1);
                    ``(ii) collecting and assessing any developments in 
                cybersecurity that may affect the recommendations in 
                such report;
                    ``(iii) reviewing the implementation of the 
                recommendations contained in such report; and
                    ``(iv) revising or amending recommendations based 
                on the assessments and reviews conducted under clauses 
                (i) through (iii);
            ``(C) During the 16 month period referred to in 
        subparagraph (A), the Commission shall--
                    ``(i) provide, in such manner and format as the 
                Commission considers appropriate, an annual update on 
                such report and any revisions or amendments reached by 
                the Commission under subparagraph (B)(iv) to--
                            ``(I) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                        Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
                        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
                        Affairs of the Senate;
                            ``(II) the Committee on Armed Services, the 
                        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
                        the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
                        of Representatives;
                            ``(III) the Director of National 
                        Intelligence;
                            ``(IV) the Secretary of Defense; and
                            ``(V) the Secretary of Homeland Security; 
                        and
                    ``(ii) conclude its activities, including providing 
                testimony to Congress concerning the final report under 
                paragraph (1) and disseminating such report.''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
            ``(D) In the event that the Commission is extended, and the 
        effective date of the extension comes after the time set for 
        the Commission's termination, the Commission shall be deemed 
        reconstituted with the same members and powers that existed at 
        the time of termination of the Commission, except that--
                    ``(i) a member of the Commission shall only serve 
                if the member's position continues to be authorized 
                under subsection (b);
                    ``(ii) no compensation or entitlements relating to 
                a person's status with the Commission shall be due for 
                the period between the termination and reconstitution 
                of the Commission;
                    ``(iii) nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed 
                as requiring the extension or reemployment of any staff 
                member or contractor working for the Commission;
                    ``(iv) the staff of the commission--
                            ``(I) shall be selected by the co-chairs of 
                        the Commission in accordance with subsection 
                        (h)(1);
                            ``(II) shall be comprised of not more than 
                        four individuals, including a staff director;
                            ``(III) shall be resourced in accordance 
                        with subsection (g)(4)(A); and
                            ``(IV) with the approval of the co-chairs, 
                        may be provided by contract with a 
                        nongovernmental organization;
                    ``(v) any unexpended funds made available for the 
                use of the Commission shall continue to be available 
                for use for the life of the Commission, as well as any 
                additional funds appropriated to the Department of 
                Defense that are made available to the Commission, 
                provided that the total such funds does not exceed 
                $1,000,000 from the reconstitution of the Commission to 
                the completion of the Commission; and
                    ``(vi) the requirement for an annual assessment of 
                the final report in subsection (l) shall be in effect 
                until the termination of the Commission.''.

SEC. 1625. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS AND PROMULGATION OF GUIDANCE RELATING 
              TO NATIONAL GUARD RESPONSES TO CYBER ATTACKS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
shall--
            (1) review and, if the Secretary determines necessary, 
        update regulations promulgated under section 903 of title 32, 
        United States Code, to clarify when and under what conditions 
        the participation of the National Guard in a response to a 
        cyber attack qualifies as a homeland defense activity that 
        would be compensated for by the Secretary of Defense under 
        section 902 of such title; and
            (2) promulgate guidance on how units of the National Guard 
        shall collaborate with the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
        Security Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation through 
        multi-agency task forces, information-sharing groups, incident 
        response planning and exercises, State fusion centers, and 
        other relevant forums and activities.
    (b) Annex of National Cyber Incident Response Plan.--Not later than 
December 31, 2021, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Defense, shall develop an annex to the National 
Cyber Incident Response Plan that details those regulations and 
guidance reviewed, updated, and promulgated under paragraphs (1) and 
(2) of subsection (a).

SEC. 1626. IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO THE QUADRENNIAL CYBER POSTURE 
              REVIEW.

    Section 1644(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91), as amended by section 1635 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 
116-92), is further amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) The assessment and definition of the role of cyber 
        forces in the national defense and military strategies of the 
        United States.'';
            (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Review of the following:
                    ``(A) The role of cyber operations in combatant 
                commander warfighting plans.
                    ``(B) The ability of combatant commanders to 
                respond to adversary cyber attacks.
                    ``(C) The cyber capacity-building programs of the 
                Department.'';
            (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) A review of the law, policies, and authorities 
        relating to, and necessary for, the United States to maintain a 
        safe, reliable, and credible cyber posture for defending 
        against and responding to cyber attacks and for deterrence in 
        cyberspace, including the following:
                    ``(A) An assessment of the need for further 
                delegation of cyber-related authorities, including 
                those germane to information warfare, to the Commander 
                of United States Cyber Command.
                    ``(B) An evaluation of the adequacy of mission 
                authorities for all cyber-related military components, 
                defense agencies, directorates, centers, and 
                commands.'';
            (4) in paragraph (4), by striking ``A declaratory'' and 
        inserting ``A review of the need for or for updates to a 
        declaratory'';
            (5) in paragraph (5), by striking ``Proposed'' and 
        inserting ``A review of'';
            (6) by amending paragraph (6) to read as follows:
            ``(6) A review of a strategy to deter, degrade, or defeat 
        malicious cyber activity targeting the United States (which may 
        include activities, capability development, and operations 
        other than cyber activities, cyber capability development, and 
        cyber operations), including--
                    ``(A) a review and assessment of various approaches 
                to competition and deterrence in cyberspace, determined 
                in consultation with experts from Government, academia, 
                and industry;
                    ``(B) a comparison of the strengths and weaknesses 
                of the approaches identified pursuant to subparagraph 
                (A) relative to the threat of each other; and
                    ``(C) an assessment as to how the cyber strategy 
                will inform country-specific campaign plans focused on 
                key leadership of Russia, China, Iran, North Korea, and 
                any other country the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.'';
            (7) by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (8):
            ``(8) A comprehensive force structure assessment of the 
        Cyber Operations Forces of the Department for the posture 
        review period, including the following:
                    ``(A) A determination of the appropriate size and 
                composition of the Cyber Mission Forces to accomplish 
                the mission requirements of the Department.
                    ``(B) An assessment of the Cyber Mission Forces' 
                personnel, capabilities, equipment, funding, 
                operational concepts, and ability to execute cyber 
                operations in a timely fashion.
                    ``(C) An assessment of the personnel, capabilities, 
                equipment, funding, and operational concepts of 
                Cybersecurity Service Providers and other elements of 
                the Cyber Operations Forces.'';
            (8) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (11) as 
        subsections (12) through (15), respectively; and
            (9) by inserting after paragraph (8), the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(9) An assessment of whether the Cyber Mission Force has 
        the appropriate level of interoperability, integration, and 
        interdependence with special operations and conventional 
        forces.
            ``(10) An evaluation of the adequacy of mission authorities 
        for the Joint Force Provider and Joint Force Trainer 
        responsibilities of United States Cyber Command, including the 
        adequacy of the units designated as Cyber Operations Forces to 
        support such responsibilities.
            ``(11) An assessment of the missions and resourcing of the 
        combat support agencies in support of cyber missions of the 
        Department.''.

SEC. 1627. REPORT ON ENABLING UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND RESOURCE 
              ALLOCATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 15, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
detailing the actions the Secretary will undertake to implement clauses 
(ii) and (iii) of section 167b(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, 
including actions to ensure that the Commander of United States Cyber 
Command has enhanced authority, direction, and control of the Cyber 
Operations Forces and the equipment budget that enables Cyber 
Operations Forces' operations and readiness, beginning with the budget 
to be submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, for fiscal year 2024, and the budget 
justification materials for the Department of Defense to be submitted 
to Congress in support of such budget.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following items:
            (1) The procedures by which the Principal Cyber Advisor 
        (PCA) will exercise authority, direction, and oversight over 
        the Commander of United States Cyber Command, with respect to 
        Cyber Operations Forces-peculiar equipment and resources.
            (2) The procedures by which the Commander of United States 
        Cyber Command will--
                    (A) prepare and submit to the Secretary program 
                recommendations and budget proposals for Cyber 
                Operations Forces and for other forces assigned to the 
                Cyber Command; and
                    (B) exercise authority, direction, and control over 
                the expenditure of funds for--
                            (i) forces assigned to United States Cyber 
                        Command; and
                            (ii) Cyber Operations Forces assigned to 
                        other unified combatant commands.
            (3) Recommendations for actions to enable the Commander of 
        United States Cyber Command to execute the budget and 
        acquisition responsibilities of the Commander in excess of 
        currently imposed limits on the Cyber Operations Procurement 
        Fund, including potential increases in personnel to support the 
        Commander.
            (4) The procedures by which the Secretary will categorize 
        and track funding obligated or expended for Cyber Operations 
        Forces-peculiar equipment and capabilities.
            (5) The methodology and criteria by which the Secretary 
        will characterize equipment as being Cyber Operations Forces-
        peculiar.

SEC. 1628. EVALUATION OF OPTIONS FOR ESTABLISHING A CYBER RESERVE 
              FORCE.

    (a) Evaluation Required.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the 
Secretary of Defense shall conduct an evaluation of options for 
establishing a cyber reserve force.
    (b) Elements.--The evaluation conducted under subsection (a) shall 
include assessment of the following:
            (1) The capabilities and deficiencies in military and 
        civilian personnel with needed cybersecurity expertise, and the 
        quantity of personnel with such expertise, within the 
        Department.
            (2) The potential for a uniformed, civilian, or mixed cyber 
        reserve force to remedy shortfalls in expertise and capacity.
            (3) The ability of the Department to attract the personnel 
        with the desired expertise to either a uniformed or civilian 
        cyber reserve force.
            (4) The number of personnel, the level of funding, and the 
        composition of a cyber reserve force that would be required to 
        meet the needs of the Department.
            (5) Alternative models for establishing a cyber reserve 
        force, including the following:
                    (A) A traditional uniformed military reserve 
                component.
                    (B) A nontraditional uniformed military reserve 
                component, with respect to drilling and other 
                requirements such as grooming and physical fitness.
                    (C) Nontraditional civilian cyber reserve options.
            (6) The impact a uniformed military cyber reserve would 
        have on active duty and existing reserve forces, including the 
        following:
                    (A) Recruiting.
                    (B) Promotion.
                    (C) Retention.
            (7) The effect a civilian cyber reserve would have on 
        active duty and existing reserve forces, and the private 
        sector.
    (c) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2022, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
evaluation conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 1629. ENSURING CYBER RESILIENCY OF NUCLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Plan for Implementation of Findings and Recommendations From 
First Annual Assessment of Cyber Resiliency of Nuclear Command and 
Control System.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
comprehensive plan, including a schedule and resourcing plan, for the 
implementation of the findings and recommendations included in the 
first report submitted under section 499(c)(3) of title 10, United 
States Code.
    (b) Concept of Operations and Oversight Mechanism for Cyber Defense 
of Nuclear Command and Control System.--Not later than October 1, 2021, 
the Secretary shall develop and establish--
            (1) a concept of operations for defending the nuclear 
        command and control system against cyber attacks, including 
        specification of the--
                    (A) roles and responsibilities of relevant entities 
                within the Office of the Secretary, the military 
                services, combatant commands, the Defense Agencies, and 
                the Department of Defense Field Activities; and
                    (B) cybersecurity capabilities to be acquired and 
                employed and operational tactics, techniques, and 
                procedures, including cyber protection team and sensor 
                deployment strategies, to be used to monitor, defend, 
                and mitigate vulnerabilities in nuclear command and 
                control systems; and
            (2) an oversight mechanism or governance model for 
        overseeing the implementation of the concept of operations 
        developed and established under paragraph (1), related 
        development, systems engineering, and acquisition activities 
        and programs, and the plan required by subsection (a), 
        including specification of the--
                    (A) roles and responsibilities of relevant entities 
                within the Office of the Secretary, the military 
                services, combatant commands, the Defense Agencies, and 
                the Department of Defense Field Activities in 
                overseeing the defense of the nuclear command and 
                control system against cyber attacks;
                    (B) responsibilities and authorities of the 
                Strategic Cybersecurity Program in overseeing and, as 
                appropriate, executing--
                            (i) vulnerability assessments; and
                            (ii) development, systems engineering, and 
                        acquisition activities; and
                    (C) processes for coordination of activities, 
                policies, and programs relating to the cybersecurity 
                and defense of the nuclear command and control system.

SEC. 1630. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE STRATEGIC 
              CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM AND THE EVALUATION OF CYBER 
              VULNERABILITIES OF MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Evaluation of Cyber Vulnerabilities of Major Weapon Systems of 
the Department of Defense.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1647 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92), as 
        amended by section 1633 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Establishing Requirements for Periodicity of Vulnerability 
Reviews.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish policies and 
requirements for each major weapon system, and the priority critical 
infrastructure essential to the proper functioning of major weapon 
systems in broader mission areas, to be re-assessed for cyber 
vulnerabilities, taking into account upgrades or other modifications to 
systems and changes in the threat.
    ``(j) Identification of Senior Official.--Each secretary of a 
military department shall identify a senior official who shall be 
responsible for ensuring that cyber vulnerability assessments and 
mitigations for weapon systems and critical infrastructure are planned, 
funded, and carried out.''.
            (2) Technical correction.--Such section 1647 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 is 
        further amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection 
                (h); and
                    (B) by redesignating the second subsection (f), as 
                added by section 1633 of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, as subsection 
                (g).
    (b) Strategic Cybersecurity Program.--Section 1640 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 
U.S.C. 2224 note), is amended by striking subsections (a) through (e) 
and inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than August 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall, acting through the Director of the National Security 
Agency and in coordination with the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff, establish a program to be known as the `Strategic 
Cybersecurity Program' (in this section referred to as the `Program').
    ``(b) Elements.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Program shall be comprised of 
        personnel assigned to the Program by the Secretary from among 
        personnel, including regular and reserve members of the Armed 
        Forces, civilian employees of the Department of Defense 
        (including the Defense intelligence agencies), and personnel of 
        the research laboratories of the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of Energy, who have particular expertise in the 
        areas of responsibility described in subsection (c).
            ``(2) Department of energy personnel.--Any personnel 
        assigned to the Program from among personnel of the Department 
        of Energy shall be so assigned with the concurrence of the 
        Secretary of Energy.
            ``(3) Program manager.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        designate a manager for the Program (in this section referred 
        to as the `Program manager').
    ``(c) Responsibilities.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Program manager and the personnel 
        assigned to the Program shall improve the end-to-end 
        cybersecurity of all of the systems, critical infrastructure, 
        kill chains, and processes that make up the following military 
        missions of the Department of Defense:
                    ``(A) Nuclear deterrence and strike.
                    ``(B) Select long-range conventional strike 
                missions germane to the warfighting plans of United 
                States European Command and United States Indo-Pacific 
                Command.
                    ``(C) Offensive cyber operations.
                    ``(D) Homeland missile defense.
            ``(2) Assessing and remediating vulnerabilities in mission 
        execution.--In carrying out the activities described in 
        paragraph (1), the Program manager shall conduct end-to-end 
        vulnerability assessments and undertake or oversee remediation 
        of identified vulnerabilities in the systems and processes on 
        which the successful execution of the missions delineated in 
        paragraph (1) depend.
            ``(3) Acquisition and systems engineering review.--In 
        carrying out paragraph (1), the Program manager shall conduct 
        appropriate reviews of acquisition and systems engineering 
        plans for proposed systems and infrastructure. The review of an 
        acquisition plan for any proposed system or infrastructure 
        shall be carried out before Milestone B approval for such 
        system or infrastructure.
    ``(d) Integration With Other Efforts.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that the Program builds upon, and does not duplicate, other efforts of 
the Department of Defense relating to cybersecurity, including the 
following:
            ``(1) The evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major 
        weapon systems of the Department of Defense required under 
        section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92).
            ``(2) The evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of Department 
        of Defense critical infrastructure required under section 1650 
        of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2017 
        (Public Law 114-328; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note).
            ``(3) The activities of the cyber protection teams of the 
        Department of Defense.
    ``(e) Mission Definition.--The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff shall coordinate with the Director of the National Security 
Agency and the commanders of the unified combatant commands to define 
the elements of the missions that will be included in the Program, and 
shall be responsible for updating those definitions as necessary.
    ``(f) Briefing.--Not later than December 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide a briefing to the congressional defense 
committees on the establishment of the Program, and the plans, funding, 
and staffing of the Program.''.

SEC. 1631. DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE PARTICIPATION IN A CYBERSECURITY 
              THREAT INTELLIGENCE SHARING PROGRAM.

    (a) Defense Industrial Base Threat Intelligence Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
        threat intelligence sharing program to share threat 
        intelligence with, and obtain threat intelligence from, the 
        defense industrial base.
            (2) Program requirements.--At a minimum, the Secretary 
        shall ensure that the program established pursuant to paragraph 
        (1) includes the following:
                    (A) Cybersecurity incident reporting requirements 
                applicable to the defense industrial base that--
                            (i) extend beyond mandatory incident 
                        reporting requirements in effect on the day 
                        before the date of the enactment of this Act;
                            (ii) set specific timeframes for all 
                        categories of incident reporting;
                            (iii) establishes a single clearinghouse 
                        for all mandatory incident reporting to the 
                        Department of Defense, including incidents 
                        involving covered unclassified information, and 
                        classified information; and
                            (iv) provide that, unless authorized or 
                        required by another provision of law or the 
                        element of the defense industrial base making 
                        the report consents, nonpublic information of 
                        which the Department becomes aware only because 
                        of a report provided pursuant to the program 
                        shall be disseminated and used only for a 
                        cybersecurity purpose, as defined in section 
                        102 of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing 
                        Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501).
                    (B) A mechanism for developing a shared and real-
                time picture of the threat environment.
                    (C) Joint, collaborative, and co-located analytics.
                    (D) Investments in technology and capabilities to 
                support automated detection and analysis across the 
                defense industrial base.
                    (E) Coordinated intelligence tipping, sharing, and 
                deconfliction, as necessary, with relevant government 
                agencies with similar intelligence sharing programs.
    (b) Threat Intelligence Program Participation.--
            (1) Procurement.--The Secretary either may require or shall 
        encourage and provide incentive for companies to participate in 
        the threat intelligence sharing program required by subsection 
        (a).
            (2) Implementation.--In implementing paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) create tiers of requirements for participation 
                within the program based on--
                            (i) the role of and relative threats 
                        related to entities within the defense 
                        industrial base; and
                            (ii) Cybersecurity Maturity Model 
                        Certification level; and
                    (B) prioritize available funding and technical 
                support to assist affected businesses, institutions, 
                and organizations as is reasonably necessary for those 
                affected entities to commence participation in the 
                threat intelligence sharing program and to meet any 
                applicable program requirements.
    (c) Existing Information Sharing Programs.--The Secretary may 
utilize an existing Department information sharing program to satisfy 
the requirement in subsection (a) if--
            (1) the existing program includes, or is modified to 
        include, two-way sharing of threat information that is 
        specifically relevant to the defense industrial base; and
            (2) such a program is coordinated with other government 
        agencies with existing intelligence sharing programs where 
        overlap occurs.
    (d) Regulations.--
            (1) Rulemaking authority.--Not later than December 15, 
        2021, the Secretary shall promulgate such rules and regulations 
        as are necessary to carry out this section.
            (2) Cybersecurity maturity model certification program 
        harmonization.--The Secretary shall ensure that any 
        intelligence sharing requirements set forth in the rules and 
        regulations promulgated pursuant to paragraph (1) consider an 
        entity's maturity and role within the defense industrial base, 
        consistent with the maturity certification levels established 
        in the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification program of 
        the Department.
    (e) Community Consent.--
            (1) In general.--As part of the program established 
        pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary either may require 
        through contractual mechanisms or shall encourage entities in 
        the defense industrial base to consent to queries of foreign 
        intelligence collection databases related to the entities, 
        provided that intelligence information provided to companies is 
        handled in a manner that protects sources and methods.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to require that the elements of the intelligence 
        community conduct queries on defense industrial base companies 
        to detect cybersecurity threats to such companies or to require 
        that information resulting from such queries be provided to 
        such companies.
    (f) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2022, the Secretary 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
includes a description of--
            (1) mandatory requirements levied on defense industrial 
        base entities regarding cyber incidents;
            (2) Department procedures for ensuring the confidentiality 
        and security of data provided by such entities to the 
        Department on either a voluntary or mandatory basis; and
            (3) any other matters regarding the program established 
        under subsection (a) the Secretary considers significant.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``defense industrial base'' means the 
        Department of Defense, Federal Government, and private sector 
        worldwide industrial complex with capabilities to perform 
        research and development, design, produce, and maintain 
        military weapon systems, subsystems, components, or parts to 
        satisfy military requirements.
            (2) The term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
            (3) The term ``threat intelligence'' means cybersecurity 
        information collected and shared amongst the defense industrial 
        base.

SEC. 1632. ASSESSMENT ON DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE CYBERSECURITY THREAT 
              HUNTING.

    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than December 1, 2021, the 
Secretary of Defense shall complete an assessment of--
            (1) the adequacy of the threat hunting elements of the 
        compliance-based Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification 
        program of the Department of Defense; and
            (2) the need for continuous threat hunting operations on 
        defense industrial base networks conducted by the Department of 
        Defense, prime contractors, or third-party cybersecurity 
        vendors.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment completed under section (a) shall 
include evaluation of the following:
            (1) The adequacy of the requirements at each level of the 
        Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, including 
        requirements germane to continuous monitoring, discovery, and 
        investigation of anomalous activity indicative of a 
        cybersecurity incident.
            (2) The need for the establishment of a continuous threat-
        hunting operational model, as a supplement to the cyber hygiene 
        requirements of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification, 
        in which network activity is comprehensively and continuously 
        monitored for signs of compromise.
            (3) Whether the continuous threat-hunting operations 
        described in paragraph (2) should be conducted by--
                    (A) United States Cyber Command;
                    (B) a component of the Department of Defense other 
                than United States Cyber Command;
                    (C) qualified prime contractors or subcontractors;
                    (D) accredited third-party cybersecurity vendors; 
                or
                    (E) a combination of the entities specified in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D).
            (4) Criteria for the prime contractors and subcontractors 
        that should be subject to continuous threat-hunting operations 
        as described in paragraph (2).
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2022, the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide a briefing to the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives on--
            (1) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
        assessment completed under subsection (a); and
            (2) such implementation plans as the Secretary may have 
        arising out of the findings described in paragraph (1).

SEC. 1633. ASSESSING RISK TO NATIONAL SECURITY OF QUANTUM COMPUTING.

    (a) Comprehensive Assessment and Recommendations Required.--Not 
later than December 31, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) complete a comprehensive assessment of the current and 
        potential threats and risks posed by quantum computing 
        technologies to critical national security systems, including--
                    (A) identification and prioritization of critical 
                national security systems at risk;
                    (B) assessment of the standards of the National 
                Institute of Standards and Technology for quantum 
                resistant cryptography and their applicability to 
                cryptographic requirements of the Department of 
                Defense;
                    (C) feasibility of alternative quantum resistant 
                algorithms and features; and
                    (D) funding shortfalls in public and private 
                developmental efforts relating to quantum resistant 
                cryptography; and
            (2) develop recommendations for research, development, and 
        acquisition activities, including resourcing schedules, for 
        securing the national security systems identified in paragraph 
        (1)(A) against quantum computing code-breaking capabilities.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2023, the Secretary shall 
brief the congressional defense committees on the assessment completed 
under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and the recommendations developed 
under paragraph (2) of such subsection.

SEC. 1634. APPLICABILITY OF REORIENTATION OF BIG DATA PLATFORM PROGRAM 
              TO DEPARTMENT OF NAVY.

    (a) In General.--Section 1651 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Applicability.--The requirements of this section shall apply 
in full to the Department of the Navy, including the Sharkcage and 
associated programs.''.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than January 1, 2021, the Secretary of the 
Navy, the program manager of the Unified Platform program, the Chief 
Information Officer, and the Principal Cyber Advisor shall jointly 
brief the congressional defense committees on the compliance of the 
Department of the Navy with the requirements of such section, as 
amended by paragraph (1).

SEC. 1635. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ACCESS AND INFORMATION RELATING 
              TO CYBER ATTACKS ON OPERATIONALLY CRITICAL CONTRACTORS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES.

    Section 391(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) Armed forces assistance and access to equipment and 
        information by members of the armed forces.--The procedures 
        established pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
                    ``(A) include mechanisms for a member of the armed 
                forces--
                            ``(i) if requested by an operationally 
                        critical contractor, to assist the contractor 
                        in detecting and mitigating penetrations; or
                            ``(ii) at the request of the Secretary of 
                        Defense or the Commandant of the Coast Guard, 
                        to obtain access to equipment or information of 
                        an operationally critical contractor necessary 
                        to conduct a forensic analysis, in addition to 
                        any analysis conducted by the contractor; and
                    ``(B) provide that an operationally critical 
                contractor is only required to provide access to 
                equipment or information as described in subparagraph 
                (A) to determine whether--
                            ``(i) information created by or for the 
                        armed forces in connection with any program of 
                        the armed forces was successfully exfiltrated 
                        from or compromised on a network or information 
                        system of such contractor and, if so, what 
                        information was exfiltrated or compromised; or
                            ``(ii) the ability of the contractor to 
                        provide operationally critical support has been 
                        affected and, if so, how and to what extent it 
                        has been affected.'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, so as to minimize 
        delays in or any curtailing of the cyber response or defensive 
        actions of the Department or the Coast Guard'' after ``specific 
        person''; and
            (3) in paragraph (5)(C), by inserting ``or 
        counterintelligence activities'' after ``investigations''.

SEC. 1636. REQUIREMENTS FOR REVIEW OF AND LIMITATIONS ON THE JOINT 
              REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS ACTIVITY.

    (a) Baseline Review.--Not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary 
of Defense shall undertake a baseline review of the Joint Regional 
Security Stacks (JRSS) to determine whether the activity--
            (1) should proceed as a program of record, with 
        modifications as specified in section (b), for exclusively the 
        Non-Classified Internet Protocol Network (NIPRNET) or for such 
        network and the Secret Internet Protocol Network (SIPRNET); or
            (2) should be phased out across the Department of Defense 
        with each of the Joint Regional Security Stacks replaced 
        through the institution of cost-effective and capable 
        networking and cybersecurity technologies, architectures, and 
        operational concepts within five years of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (b) Plan to Transition to Program of Record.--If the Secretary 
determines under subsection (a) that the Joint Regional Security Stacks 
activity should proceed, not later than October 1, 2021, the Secretary 
shall develop a plan to transition such activity to a program of 
record, governed by standard Department of Defense acquisition program 
requirements and practices, including the following:
            (1) Baseline operational requirements documentation.
            (2) An acquisition strategy and baseline.
            (3) A program office and responsible program manager, under 
        the oversight of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
        and Sustainment and the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Department of Defense, responsible for pertinent doctrine, 
        organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, 
        personnel, facilities and policy matters, and the development 
        of effective tactics, techniques, and procedures;
            (4) manning and training requirements documentation; and
            (5) operational test planning.
    (c) Limitations.--
            (1) Limitation on use of funds.--None of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be used to field 
        Joint Regional Security Stacks on the Secret Internet Protocol 
        Network in fiscal year 2021.
            (2) Limitation on operational deployment.--The Secretary 
        may not conduct an operational deployment of Joint Regional 
        Security Stacks to the Secret Internet Protocol Network in 
        fiscal year 2021.
    (d) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than December 1, 2021, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees--
            (1) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
        baseline review conducted under subsection (a);
            (2) the plan developed under subsection (b), if any; and
            (3) a proposal for the replacement of Joint Regional 
        Security Stacks, if the Secretary determines under subsection 
        (a) that it should be replaced.

SEC. 1637. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL CYBER 
              DIRECTOR.

    (a) Assessment.--Not later than December 1, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall 
seek to enter into an agreement with an independent organization with 
relevant expertise in cyber policy and governmental organization to 
conduct and complete an assessment of the feasibility and advisability 
of establishing a National Cyber Director.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required under subsection (a) shall 
include a review of and development of recommendations germane to the 
following, including the development of proposed legislative text for 
the establishment of a National Cyber Director:
            (1) The authorities necessary to bring capabilities and 
        capacities together across the interagency, all levels of 
        government, and the private sector.
            (2) A definition of the roles of the National Cyber 
        Director in planning, preparing, and directing integrated cyber 
        operations in response to a major cyber attack on the United 
        States, including intelligence operations, law enforcement 
        actions, cyber effects operations, defensive operations, and 
        incident response operations.
            (3) The authorities necessary to align resources to cyber 
        priorities.
            (4) The structure of the office of the National Cyber 
        Director and position within government.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees 
        of Congress a report on--
                    (A) the findings of the independent organization 
                with respect to the assessment carried out under 
                subsection (a); and
                    (B) the recommendations developed as part of such 
                assessment under subsection (b).
            (2) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in a publicly releasable and unclassified format, 
        but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 1638. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE 
              FUNDS FOR CYBER OPERATIONS-PECULIAR CAPABILITY 
              DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1640 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by redsignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively;
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and 
                inserting ``Subject to subsection (b), the Commander of 
                the United States Cyber Command'';
                    (B) by striking ``per service'' and inserting ``per 
                use''; and
                    (C) by striking ``through 2022'' and inserting 
                ``through 2025''; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Limitation.--(1) Each fiscal year, the Secretaries of the 
military departments concerned may each obligate and expend under 
subsection (a) not more than $20,000,000.
    ``(2) Each fiscal year, the Commander of the United States Cyber 
Command may obligate and expend under subsection (a) not more than 
$6,000,000.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
amended by striking ``through 2022'' and inserting ``through 2025''.

SEC. 1639. PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY FOR COMMANDER OF UNITED 
              STATES CYBER COMMAND AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR 
              OFFENSIVE CYBER OPERATIONS.

    (a) Personnel Management Authority for Commander of United States 
Cyber Command to Attract Experts in Science and Engineering.--Section 
1599h of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 212 of 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 
116-92)), is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) United states cyber command.--The Commander of United 
        States Cyber Command may carry out a program of personnel 
        management authority provided in subsection (b) in order to 
        facilitate the recruitment of eminent experts in computer 
        science, data science, engineering, mathematics, and computer 
        network exploitation within the headquarters of United States 
        Cyber Command and the Cyber National Mission Force.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the semicolon 
                and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(G) in the case of United States Cyber Command, 
                appoint computer scientists, data scientists, 
                engineers, mathematicians, and computer network 
                exploitation specialists to a total of not more than 10 
                scientific and engineering positions in the Command;''.
    (b) Program to Develop Accesses, Discover Vulnerabilities, and 
Engineer Cyber Tools and Develop Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures 
for Offensive Cyber Operations.--
            (1) In general.--Pursuant to the authority provided under 
        section 1599h(a)(7) of such title, as added by subsection (a), 
        the Commander of United States Cyber Command shall establish a 
        program or augment an existing program within the Command to 
        develop accesses, discover vulnerabilities, and engineer cyber 
        tools and develop tactics, techniques, and procedures for the 
        use of these assets and capabilities in offensive cyber 
        operations.
            (2) Elements.--The program or augmented program required by 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) develop accesses, tools, vulnerabilities, and 
                tactics, techniques, and procedures fit for Department 
                of Defense military operations in cyberspace, such as 
                reliability, meeting short development and operational 
                timelines, low cost, and expendability;
                    (B) aim to decrease the reliance of Cyber Command 
                on accesses, tools, and expertise provided by the 
                intelligence community;
                    (C) be designed to provide technical and 
                operational expertise on par with that of programs of 
                the intelligence community;
                    (D) enable the Commander to attract and retain 
                expertise resident in the private sector and other 
                technologically elite government organizations; and
                    (E) coordinate development activities with, and, as 
                appropriate, facilitate transition of capabilities 
                from, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, 
                the Strategic Capabilities Office, and components 
                within the intelligence community.
            (3) Intelligence community defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003).

SEC. 1640. IMPLEMENTATION OF INFORMATION OPERATIONS MATTERS.

    Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
by section 301 for operation and maintenance and available for the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense for the travel of persons as 
specified in the table in section 4301--
            (1) not more than 25 percent shall be available until the 
        date on which the report required by subsection (h)(1) of 
        section 1631 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is submitted to the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services House of Representatives; and
            (2) not more than 75 percent shall be available until the 
        date on which the strategy and posture review required by 
        subsection (g) of such section is submitted to such committees.

SEC. 1641. REPORT ON CYBER INSTITUTES PROGRAM.

    Section 1640 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2310; 10 U.S.C. 
2200 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Report to Congress.--Not later than September 30, 2021, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
effectiveness of the Cyber Institutes and on opportunities to expand 
the Cyber Institutes to additional select institutions of higher 
learning that have a Reserve Officers' Training Corps program.''.

SEC. 1642. ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL MANUFACTURERS IN THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL 
              SUPPLY CHAIN ON MATTERS RELATING TO CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology, may award financial assistance 
to a Center for the purpose of providing cybersecurity services to 
small manufacturers.
    (b) Criteria.--The Secretary, in consultation with the Director, 
shall establish and publish on the grants.gov website, or successor 
website, criteria for selecting recipients for financial assistance 
under this section.
    (c) Use of Financial Assistance.--Financial assistance under this 
section--
            (1) shall be used by a Center to provide small 
        manufacturers with cybersecurity services relating to--
                    (A) compliance with the cybersecurity requirements 
                of the Department of Defense Supplement to the Federal 
                Acquisition Regulation, including awareness, 
                assessment, evaluation, preparation, and implementation 
                of cybersecurity services; and
                    (B) achieving compliance with the Cybersecurity 
                Maturity Model Certification framework of the 
                Department of Defense; and
            (2) may be used by a Center to employ trained personnel to 
        deliver cybersecurity services to small manufacturers.
    (d) Biennial Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every two 
        years, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Science, 
        Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a 
        biennial report on financial assistance awarded under this 
        section.
            (2) Contents.--To the extent practicable, each report 
        submitted under paragraph (1) shall include the following with 
        respect to the years covered by the report:
                    (A) The number of small manufacturing companies 
                assisted.
                    (B) A description of the cybersecurity services 
                provided.
                    (C) A description of the cybersecurity matters 
                addressed.
                    (D) An analysis of the operational effectiveness 
                and cost-effectiveness of the cybersecurity services 
                provided.
    (e) Termination.--The authority of the Secretary to award of 
financial assistance under this section shall terminate on the date 
that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``Center'' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 25(a) of the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278k(a)).
            (2) The term ``small manufacturer'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 1644(g) of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note).

SEC. 1643. STUDY ON CYBEREXPLOITATION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
              AND THEIR FAMILIES.

    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete a study 
on the cyberexploitation of the personal information and accounts of 
members of the Armed Forces and their families.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An intelligence assessment of the threat currently 
        posed by foreign government and non-state actor 
        cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their 
        families, including generalized assessments as to whether 
        cyberexploitation of members of the Armed Forces and their 
        families is a substantial threat as compared to other means of 
        information warfare and as to whether cyberexploitation of 
        members of the Armed Forces and their families is an increasing 
        threat.
            (2) Case-study analysis of three known occurrences of 
        attempted cyberexploitation against members of the Armed Forces 
        and their families, including assessments of the vulnerability 
        and the ultimate consequences of the attempted 
        cyberexploitation.
            (3) A description of the actions taken by the Department of 
        Defense to educate members of the Armed Forces and their 
        families, including particularly vulnerable subpopulations, 
        about any actions that can be taken to reduce these threats.
            (4) An intelligence assessment of the threat posed by 
        foreign government and non-state actor creation and use of deep 
        fakes featuring members of the Armed Forces or their families, 
        including generalized assessments of the maturity of the 
        technology used in the creation of deep fakes and as to how 
        deep fakes have been used or might be used to conduct 
        information warfare.
            (5) Development of recommendations for policy changes to 
        reduce the vulnerability of members of the Armed Forces and 
        their families to cyberexploitation, including recommendations 
        for legislative or administrative action.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the findings of 
        the Secretary with respect to the study required by subsection 
        (a).
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``cyberexploitation'' means the use of digital 
        means to knowingly access, or conspire to access, without 
        authorization, an individual's personal information to be 
        employed (or to be used) with malicious intent.
            (2) The term ``deep fake'' means the digital insertion of a 
        person's likeness into or digital alteration of a person's 
        likeness in visual media, such as photographs and videos, 
        without the person's permission and with malicious intent.

                       Subtitle C--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1651. MODIFICATION TO RESPONSIBILITIES OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS COUNCIL.

    Section 179(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (12) as 
        paragraphs (10) through (13), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new 
        paragraph (9):
            ``(9) Reviewing proposed capabilities, and establishing and 
        validating performance requirements (as defined in section 
        181(h) of this title), for nuclear warhead programs.''.

SEC. 1652. RESPONSIBILITY OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS COUNCIL IN PREPARATION OF 
              NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION BUDGET.

    Paragraph (11) of section 179(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
as redesignated by section 1651, is further amended to read as follows:
            ``(11) As part of the planning, programming, budgeting, and 
        execution process of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration--
                    ``(A) providing guidance with respect to the 
                development of the annual budget proposals of the 
                Administration under section 3255 of the National 
                Nuclear Security Administration Act;
                    ``(B) reviewing the adequacy of such proposals 
                under section 4717 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act; 
                and
                    ``(C) preparing, coordinating, and approving such 
                proposals, including before such proposals are 
                submitted to--
                            ``(i) the Secretary of Energy;
                            ``(ii) the Director of the Office of 
                        Management and Budget;
                            ``(iii) the President; or
                            ``(iv) Congress (as submitted with the 
                        budget of the President under section 1105(a) 
                        of title 31).''.

SEC. 1653. MODIFICATION OF GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REVIEW OF 
              ANNUAL REPORTS ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS ENTERPRISE.

    Section 492a(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``review each report'' 
        and inserting ``periodically review reports submitted''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``not later'' and all 
        that follows through ``submitted,''.

SEC. 1654. PROHIBITION ON REDUCTION OF THE INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC 
              MISSILES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 
for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended for the 
following, and the Department may not otherwise take any action to do 
the following:
            (1) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the responsiveness or 
        alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the 
        United States.
            (2) Reduce, or prepare to reduce, the quantity of deployed 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United States to a 
        number less than 400.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any of the following activities:
            (1) The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental 
        ballistic missiles.
            (2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles.

SEC. 1655. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON NUCLEAR COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
              UNITED STATES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) continues 
        to play an essential role in the national security of the 
        United States and the independent nuclear deterrents of other 
        NATO members, such as the United Kingdom, have helped 
        underwrite peace and security;
            (2) the nuclear programs of the United States and the 
        United Kingdom have enjoyed significant collaborative benefits 
        as a result of the cooperative relationship formalized in the 
        Agreement for Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic Energy for 
        Mutual Defense Purposes, signed at Washington July 3, 1958, and 
        entered into force August 4, 1958 (9 UST 1028), between the 
        United States and the United Kingdom (commonly referred to as 
        the ``Mutual Defense Agreement'');
            (3) the unique partnership between the United States and 
        the United Kingdom has enhanced sovereign military and 
        scientific capabilities, strengthened bilateral ties, and 
        shared costs, particularly on such programs as the Trident II 
        D-5 weapons system and the common missile compartment for the 
        future Dreadnought and Columbia classes of submarines;
            (4) additionally, the extension of the nuclear deterrence 
        commitments of the United Kingdom to members of the NATO 
        alliance strengthens collective security while reducing the 
        burden placed on United States nuclear forces to deter 
        potential adversaries and assure allies of the United States 
        and the United Kingdom;
            (5) as the international security environment deteriorates 
        and potential adversaries expand and enhance their nuclear 
        forces, the extended deterrence commitments of the United 
        Kingdom play an increasingly important role in supporting the 
        security interests of the United States and allies of the 
        United States and the United Kingdom;
            (6) it is in the national security interest of the United 
        States to support the United Kingdom with respect to the 
        decision of the Government of the United Kingdom to maintain 
        its nuclear deterrent until global security conditions warrant 
        its elimination;
            (7) as the United States must modernize its aging nuclear 
        forces to ensure its ability to continue to field a nuclear 
        deterrent that is safe, secure, and effective, the United 
        Kingdom faces a similar challenge;
            (8) bilateral cooperation on the parallel development of 
        the W93/Mk7 warhead of the United States and the replacement 
        warhead of the United Kingdom, as well as associated 
        components, will allow the United States and the United Kingdom 
        to responsibly address challenges within their legacy nuclear 
        forces in a cost-effective manner that--
                    (A) preserves independent, sovereign control;
                    (B) is consistent with each country's obligations 
                under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
                Weapons, done at Washington, London, and Moscow July 1, 
                1968 (21 UST 483) (commonly referred to as the 
                ``Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty''); and
                    (C) supports nonproliferation objectives; and
            (9) continued cooperation between the nuclear programs of 
        United States and the United Kingdom, including through the 
        W93/Mk7 program, is essential to ensuring that the NATO 
        alliance continues to be supported by credible nuclear forces 
        capable of preserving peace, preventing coercion, and deterring 
        aggression.

                  Subtitle D--Missile Defense Programs

SEC. 1661. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI 
              COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CO-DEVELOPMENT AND 
              CO-PRODUCTION.

    (a) Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System.--
            (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for procurement, 
        Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency, not 
        more than $73,000,000 may be provided to the Government of 
        Israel to procure components for the Iron Dome short-range 
        rocket defense system through co-production of such components 
        in the United States by industry of the United States.
            (2) Conditions.--
                    (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) 
                for the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program 
                shall be available subject to the terms and conditions 
                in the Agreement Between the Department of Defense of 
                the United States of America and the Ministry of 
                Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome 
                Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, as 
                amended to include co-production for Tamir 
                interceptors.
                    (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to 
                the initial obligation of funds described in paragraph 
                (1), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
                Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees--
                            (i) a certification that the amended 
                        bilateral international agreement specified in 
                        subparagraph (A) is being implemented as 
                        provided in such agreement;
                            (ii) an assessment detailing any risks 
                        relating to the implementation of such 
                        agreement; and
                            (iii) for system improvements resulting in 
                        modified Iron Dome components and Tamir 
                        interceptor sub-components, a certification 
                        that the Government of Israel has demonstrated 
                        successful completion of Production Readiness 
                        Reviews, including the validation of production 
                        lines, the verification of component 
                        conformance, and the verification of 
                        performance to specification as defined in the 
                        Iron Dome Defense System Procurement Agreement, 
                        as further amended.
    (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, David's Sling 
Weapon System Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $50,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
        System, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Agreement.--Provision of funds specified in paragraph 
        (1) shall be subject to the terms and conditions in the 
        bilateral co-production agreement, including--
                    (A) a one-for-one cash match is made by Israel or 
                in another matching amount that otherwise meets best 
                efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and 
                Israel); and
                    (B) co-production of parts, components, and all-up 
                rounds (if appropriate) in the United States by United 
                States industry for the David's Sling Weapon System is 
                not less than 50 percent.
            (3) Certification and assessment.--The Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees--
                    (A) a certification that the Government of Israel 
                has demonstrated the successful completion of the 
                knowledge points, technical milestones, and production 
                readiness reviews required by the research, 
                development, and technology agreement and the bilateral 
                co-production agreement for the David's Sling Weapon 
                System; and
                    (B) an assessment detailing any risks relating to 
                the implementation of such agreement.
    (c) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program, Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
Interceptor Program Co-production.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for 
        procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the Missile 
        Defense Agency not more than $77,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
        Program, including for co-production of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
            (2) Certification.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a certification that--
                    (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
                successful completion of the knowledge points, 
                technical milestones, and production readiness reviews 
                required by the research, development, and technology 
                agreement for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
                Program;
                    (B) funds specified in paragraph (1) will be 
                provided on the basis of a one-for-one cash match made 
                by Israel or in another matching amount that otherwise 
                meets best efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United 
                States and Israel);
                    (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
                international agreement with Israel that establishes, 
                with respect to the use of such funds--
                            (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), 
                        the terms of co-production of parts and 
                        components on the basis of the greatest 
                        practicable co-production of parts, components, 
                        and all-up rounds (if appropriate) by United 
                        States industry and minimizes nonrecurring 
                        engineering and facilitization expenses to the 
                        costs needed for co-production;
                            (ii) complete transparency on the 
                        requirement of Israel for the number of 
                        interceptors and batteries that will be 
                        procured, including with respect to the 
                        procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and 
                        funding profiles of Israel;
                            (iii) technical milestones for co-
                        production of parts and components and 
                        procurement;
                            (iv) a joint affordability working group to 
                        consider cost reduction initiatives; and
                            (v) joint approval processes for third-
                        party sales; and
                    (D) the level of co-production described in 
                subparagraph (C)(i) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
                Interceptor Program is not less than 50 percent.
    (d) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (2) of subsection (b) and 
paragraph (2) of subsection (c), the Under Secretary may submit--
            (1) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
        Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
        or
            (2) separate certifications for each respective system.
    (e) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the certification and assessment under subsection 
(b)(3) and the certification under subsection (c)(2) no later than 30 
days before the funds specified in paragraph (1) of subsections (b) and 
(c) for the respective system covered by the certification are provided 
to the Government of Israel.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
            (1) The congressional defense committees.
            (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.

SEC. 1662. ACCELERATION OF THE DEPLOYMENT OF HYPERSONIC AND BALLISTIC 
              TRACKING SPACE SENSOR PAYLOAD.

    (a) Primary Responsibility for Development and Deployment of 
Hypersonic and Ballistic Tracking Space Sensor Payload.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) assign the Director of the Missile Defense 
                Agency with the principal responsibility for the 
                development and deployment of a hypersonic and 
                ballistic tracking space sensor payload through the end 
                of fiscal year 2022; and
                    (B) submit to the congressional defense committees 
                certification of such assignment.
            (2) Transition.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees--
                    (A) a determination regarding whether 
                responsibility for a hypersonic and ballistic tracking 
                space sensor payload should be transitioned to the 
                United States Space Force at the end of fiscal year 
                2022 or later; and
                    (B) if the Secretary so determines, a plan for 
                transition of primary responsibility that minimizes 
                disruption to the program and provides for sufficient 
                funding as described in subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Certification Regarding Funding of Hypersonic and Ballistic 
Tracking Space Sensor Program.--
            (1) In general.--At the same time that the President 
        submits to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
        United States Code, the annual budget request of the President 
        for fiscal year 2022, the Under Secretary of Defense 
        Comptroller and the Director for Cost Assessment and Program 
        Evaluation shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a certification as to whether the hypersonic and 
        ballistic tracking space sensor program is sufficiently funded 
        in the future-years defense program.
            (2) Funding limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be 
        appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 under the 
        Operations and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, account for the 
        Office of Secretary of Defense travel of persons assigned to 
        the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering, not more than 50 percent of such funds may be 
        obligated or expended until the certification required by 
        paragraph (1) is submitted under such paragraph.
    (c) Deployment Deadline.--Section 1683(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 10 U.S.C. 
2431 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) In General.--'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Development, Testing, and Deployment.--
            ``(1) Development.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(2) Testing and deployment.--The Director shall begin on-
        orbit testing of a hypersonic and ballistic tracking space 
        sensor no later than December 31, 2022, with full operational 
        deployment as soon as technically feasible thereafter.
            ``(3) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
        deadline for testing specified in paragraph (2) if the 
        Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a 
        report containing--
                    ``(A) the explanation why the Secretary cannot meet 
                such deadline;
                    ``(B) the technical risks and estimated cost of 
                accelerating the program to attempt to meet such 
                deadline;
                    ``(C) an assessment of threat systems that could 
                not be detected or tracked persistently due to waiving 
                such deadline; and
                    ``(D) a plan, including a timeline, for beginning 
                the required testing.''.
    (d) Assessment and Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council established under section 181 of title 10, United 
States Code, shall--
            (1) complete an assessment on whether all efforts being 
        made by the Missile Defense Agency, the Defense Advanced 
        Research Projects Agency, the Air Force, and the Space 
        Development Agency relating to space-based sensing and tracking 
        capabilities for missile defense are aligned with the 
        requirements of United States Strategic Command, United States 
        Northern Command, United States European Command, and United 
        States Indo-Pacific Command for missile tracking and missile 
        warning that have been validated by the Joint Requirements 
        Oversight Council; and
            (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the findings of the Chair with respect to the assessment 
        conducted under paragraph (1).

SEC. 1663. EXTENSION OF PROHIBITION RELATING TO MISSILE DEFENSE 
              INFORMATION AND SYSTEMS.

    Section 130h(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``January 1, 2021'' and inserting ``January 1, 2026''.

SEC. 1664. REPORT ON AND LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR LAYERED 
              HOMELAND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.

    (a) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Director 
        of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report on the proposal for a layered 
        homeland missile defense system included in the budget 
        justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the 
        budget for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2021 (as 
        submitted with the budget of the President for such year under 
        section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code).
            (2) Elements required.--The report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the approved requirements for 
                a layered homeland missile defense system, based on an 
                assessment by the intelligence community of threats to 
                be addressed at the time of deployment of such a 
                system.
                    (B) An assessment of how such requirements 
                addressed by a layered homeland missile defense system 
                relate to those addressed by the existing ground-based 
                midcourse defense system, including deployed ground-
                based interceptors and planned upgrades to such ground-
                based interceptors.
                    (C) An analysis of interceptor solutions to meet 
                such requirements, to include land-based Standard 
                Missile 3 (SM-3) Block IIA interceptor systems and the 
                Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, 
                with the number of locations required for deployment 
                and the production numbers of interceptors and related 
                sensors.
                    (D) A site-specific fielding plan that includes 
                possible locations, the number and type of interceptors 
                and radars in each location, and any associated 
                environmental or permitting considerations, including 
                an assessment of the locations evaluated pursuant to 
                section 227(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
                Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (126 Stat. 1679; Public Law 
                112-239) for inclusion in the layered homeland missile 
                defense system.
                    (E) Relevant policy considerations for deployment 
                of such systems for defense against intercontinental 
                ballistic missiles in the continental United States.
                    (F) A cost estimate and schedule for options 
                involving a land-based Standard Missile 3 Block IIA 
                interceptor system and the Terminal High Altitude Area 
                Defense system, including required environmental 
                assessments.
                    (G) A feasibility assessment of the necessary 
                modifications to the Terminal High Altitude Area 
                Defense system to address such requirements.
                    (H) An assessment of the industrial base capacity 
                to support additional production of either a land-based 
                Standard Missile 3 Block IIA interceptor system or the 
                Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system.
            (3) Consultation.--In preparing the report required by 
        paragraph (1), the Director shall consult with the following:
                    (A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
                    (B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition 
                and Sustainment.
                    (C) The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
                in Vice Chairman's capacity as the Chair of the Joint 
                Requirements Oversight Council.
                    (D) The Commander, United States Strategic Command.
                    (E) The Commander, United States Northern Command.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds.--Not more than 50 percent of the 
amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 
for the Missile Defense Agency for the purposes of a layered homeland 
missile defense system may be obligated or expended until the Director 
submits to the congressional defense committees the report required by 
subsection (a).
    (c) Intelligence Community Defined.--In this section, the term 
``intelligence community'' has the meaning given such term in section 3 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

SEC. 1665. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW AND 
              ASSESSMENT OF MISSILE DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.

    Section 232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``through 2020'' and 
        inserting ``through 2025'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``through 2021'' and inserting 
                ``through 2026''; and
                    (B) by striking ``year. Each'' and all that follows 
                through ``appropriate.'' and insert the following: ``, 
                which shall include such findings and recommendations 
                as the Comptroller General considers appropriate.''; 
                and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
            ``(3) Review of emerging issues.--In carrying out this 
        subsection, as the Comptroller General determines is warranted, 
        the Comptroller General shall review emerging issues and, in 
        consultation with the congressional defense committees, brief 
        such committees or submit to such committees a report on the 
        findings of the Comptroller General with respect to such 
        review.''.

SEC. 1666. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTING STRUCTURE OF MISSILE 
              DEFENSE AGENCY.

    Section 205 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 205. Missile Defense Agency
    ``The Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall be appointed for 
a six-year term.''.

SEC. 1667. GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE INTERIM CAPABILITY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the nuclear and ballistic missile threats from rogue 
        nations are increasing; and
            (2) the Department of Defense should fully assess 
        development of an interim ground-based missile defense 
        capability while also pursuing the development of a next 
        generation interceptor capability.
    (b) Interim Ground-based Interceptor.--
            (1) Development.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting 
        through the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and in 
        coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition and Sustainment, the Commander of the United States 
        Northern Command, and the Commander of the United States 
        Strategic Command, shall commence carrying out a program to 
        develop an interim ground-based interceptor capability that 
        will--
                    (A) use sound acquisition practices;
                    (B) address the majority of current and near- to 
                mid-term projected ballistic missile threats to the 
                United States homeland from rogue nations;
                    (C) at minimum, meet the proposed capabilities of 
                the Redesigned Kill Vehicle program;
                    (D) leverage existing kill vehicle and booster 
                technology; and
                    (E) appropriately balance interceptor performance 
                with schedule of delivery.
            (2) Deployment.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
        the Director of the Missile Defense Agency and in coordination 
        with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment, the Commander of the United States Northern 
        Command, and the Commander of the United States Strategic 
        Command, shall--
                    (A) conduct rigorous flight testing of the interim 
                ground-based interceptor; and
                    (B) deliver 20 new ground-based interceptors by 
                2026.
            (3) Waiver authority.--(A) The Secretary of Defense may 
        waive the requirements under paragraphs (1) and (2) if the 
        Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees 
        that--
                    (i) the technology development is not technically 
                feasible;
                    (ii) the interim capability development is not in 
                the national security interest of the United States; or
                    (iii) the next generation interceptor for the 
                ground-based midcourse defense system can deliver 
                capability before the program otherwise required by 
                this subsection.
            (B) If the Secretary chooses to waive the requirements 
        under paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees along with the certification 
        required by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph--
                    (i) an explanation of the rationale for the 
                decision;
                    (ii) an estimate of projected rogue nation threats 
                to the United States homeland that will not be defended 
                against until the fielding of the next generation 
                interceptor for the ground-based midcourse defense 
                system; and
                    (iii) an updated schedule for development and 
                deployment of the next generation interceptor.
            (C) The Secretary may not delegate the certification 
        described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) unless the Secretary is 
        recused, in which case the Secretary may delegate such 
        certification to the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Capabilities and Criteria.--The Director shall ensure that the 
interim ground-based interceptor developed under subsection (c)(1) 
meets, at a minimum, the following capabilities and criteria:
            (1) Vehicle-to-vehicle communications, as applicable.
            (2) Vehicle-to-ground communications.
            (3) Kill assessment capability.
            (4) The ability to counter advanced counter measures, 
        decoys, and penetration aids.
            (5) Producibility and manufacturability.
            (6) Use of technology involving high technology readiness 
        levels.
            (7) Options to integrate the new kill vehicle onto other 
        missile defense interceptor vehicles other than the ground-
        based interceptors of the ground-based midcourse defense 
        system.
            (8) Sound acquisition processes.
    (d) Report on Funding Profile.--The Director shall include with the 
budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the 
budget of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) a report on the funding profile necessary for the 
interim ground-based interceptor program to meet the objectives under 
subsection (c).

                   TITLE XVII--HONG KONG AUTONOMY ACT

SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Hong Kong Autonomy Act''.

SEC. 1702. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Alien; national; national of the united states.--The 
        terms ``alien'', ``national'', and ``national of the United 
        States'' have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership.--
        The term ``appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Homeland 
                Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the 
                Judiciary, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
                the majority leader and the minority leader of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign 
                Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
                Committee on the Judiciary, the Permanent Select 
                Committee on Intelligence, and the Speaker and the 
                minority leader of the House of Representatives.
            (3) Basic law.--The term ``Basic Law'' means the Basic Law 
        of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's 
        Republic of China.
            (4) China.--The term ``China'' means the People's Republic 
        of China.
            (5) Entity.--The term ``entity'' means a partnership, joint 
        venture, association, corporation, organization, network, 
        group, or subgroup, or any other form of business 
        collaboration.
            (6) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' means a financial institution specified in 
        section 5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States Code.
            (7) Hong kong.--The term ``Hong Kong'' means the Hong Kong 
        Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of 
        China.
            (8) Joint declaration.--The term ``Joint Declaration'' 
        means the Joint Declaration of the Government of the United 
        Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
        Government of the People's Republic of China on the Question of 
        Hong Kong, done at Beijing on December 19, 1984.
            (9) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge of the conduct, the circumstance, or the 
        result.
            (10) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or 
        entity.
            (11) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) any citizen or national of the United States;
                    (B) any alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
                residence in the United States;
                    (C) any entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or any jurisdiction within the United 
                States (including a foreign branch of such an entity); 
                or
                    (D) any person located in the United States.

SEC. 1703. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Joint Declaration and the Basic Law clarify certain 
        obligations and promises that the Government of China has made 
        with respect to the future of Hong Kong.
            (2) The obligations of the Government of China under the 
        Joint Declaration were codified in a legally-binding treaty, 
        signed by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
        and Northern Ireland and registered with the United Nations.
            (3) The obligations of the Government of China under the 
        Basic Law originate from the Joint Declaration, were passed 
        into the domestic law of China by the National People's 
        Congress, and are widely considered by citizens of Hong Kong as 
        part of the de facto legal constitution of Hong Kong.
            (4) Foremost among the obligations of the Government of 
        China to Hong Kong is the promise that, pursuant to Paragraph 
        3b of the Joint Declaration, ``the Hong Kong Special 
        Administrative Region will enjoy a high degree of autonomy, 
        except in foreign and defence affairs which are the 
        responsibilities of the Central People's Government''.
            (5) The obligation specified in Paragraph 3b of the Joint 
        Declaration is referenced, reinforced, and extrapolated on in 
        several portions of the Basic Law, including Articles 2, 12, 
        13, 14, and 22.
            (6) Article 22 of the Basic Law establishes that ``No 
        department of the Central People's Government and no province, 
        autonomous region, or municipality directly under the Central 
        Government may interfere in the affairs which the Hong Kong 
        Special Administrative Region administers on its own in 
        accordance with this Law.''.
            (7) The Joint Declaration and the Basic Law make clear that 
        additional obligations shall be undertaken by China to ensure 
        the ``high degree of autonomy'' of Hong Kong.
            (8) Paragraph 3c of the Joint Declaration states, as 
        reinforced by Articles 2, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 22 of the Basic 
        Law, that Hong Kong ``will be vested with executive, 
        legislative and independent judicial power, including that of 
        final adjudication''.
            (9) On multiple occasions, the Government of China has 
        undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent 
        of the obligation described in paragraph (8) of this section, 
        including the following:
                    (A) In 1999, the Standing Committee of the National 
                People's Congress overruled a decision by the Hong Kong 
                Court of Final Appeal on the right of abode.
                    (B) On multiple occasions, the Government of Hong 
                Kong, at the advice of the Government of China, is 
                suspected to have not allowed persons entry into Hong 
                Kong allegedly because of their support for democracy 
                and human rights in Hong Kong and China.
                    (C) The Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong has, 
                despite restrictions on interference in the affairs of 
                Hong Kong as detailed in Article 22 of the Basic Law--
                            (i) openly expressed support for candidates 
                        in Hong Kong for Chief Executive and 
                        Legislative Council;
                            (ii) expressed views on various policies 
                        for the Government of Hong Kong and other 
                        internal matters relating to Hong Kong; and
                            (iii) on April 17, 2020, asserted that both 
                        the Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong and 
                        the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of the 
                        State Council ``have the right to exercise 
                        supervision . . . on affairs regarding Hong 
                        Kong and the mainland, in order to ensure 
                        correct implementation of the Basic Law''.
                    (D) The National People's Congress has passed laws 
                requiring Hong Kong to pass laws banning disrespectful 
                treatment of the national flag and national anthem of 
                China.
                    (E) The State Council of China released a white 
                paper on June 10, 2014, that stressed the 
                ``comprehensive jurisdiction'' of the Government of 
                China over Hong Kong and indicated that Hong Kong must 
                be governed by ``patriots''.
                    (F) The Government of China has directed operatives 
                to kidnap and bring to the mainland, or is otherwise 
                responsible for the kidnapping of, residents of Hong 
                Kong, including businessman Xiao Jianhua and bookseller 
                Gui Minhai.
                    (G) The Government of Hong Kong, acting with the 
                support of the Government of China, introduced an 
                extradition bill that would have permitted the 
                Government of China to request and enforce extradition 
                requests for any individual present in Hong Kong, 
                regardless of the legality of the request or the degree 
                to which it compromised the judicial independence of 
                Hong Kong.
                    (H) The spokesman for the Standing Committee of the 
                National People's Congress said, ``Whether Hong Kong's 
                laws are consistent with the Basic Law can only be 
                judged and decided by the National People's Congress 
                Standing Committee. No other authority has the right to 
                make judgments and decisions.''.
            (10) Paragraph 3e of the Joint Declaration states, as 
        reinforced by Article 5 of the Basic Law, that the ``current 
        social and economic systems in Hong Kong will remain unchanged, 
        as so will the life-style.''.
            (11) On multiple occasions, the Government of China has 
        undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent 
        of the obligation described in paragraph (10) of this section, 
        including the following:
                    (A) In 2002, the Government of China pressured the 
                Government of Hong Kong to introduce ``patriotic'' 
                curriculum in primary and secondary schools.
                    (B) The governments of China and Hong Kong proposed 
                the prohibition of discussion of Hong Kong independence 
                and self-determination in primary and secondary 
                schools, which infringes on freedom of speech.
                    (C) The Government of Hong Kong mandated that 
                Mandarin, and not the native language of Cantonese, be 
                the language of instruction in Hong Kong schools.
                    (D) The governments of China and Hong Kong agreed 
                to a daily quota of mainland immigrants to Hong Kong, 
                which is widely believed by citizens of Hong Kong to be 
                part of an effort to ``mainlandize'' Hong Kong.
            (12) Paragraph 3e of the Joint Declaration states, as 
        reinforced by Articles 4, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 33, 34, 
        and 39 of the Basic Law, that the ``rights and freedoms, 
        including those of person, of speech, of the press, of 
        assembly, of association, of travel, of movement, of 
        correspondence, of strike, of choice of occupation, of academic 
        research and of religious belief will be ensured by law'' in 
        Hong Kong.
            (13) On multiple occasions, the Government of China has 
        undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent 
        of the obligation described in paragraph (12) of this section, 
        including the following:
                    (A) On February 26, 2003, the Government of Hong 
                Kong introduced a national security bill that would 
                have placed restrictions on freedom of speech and other 
                protected rights.
                    (B) The Liaison Office of China in Hong Kong has 
                pressured businesses in Hong Kong not to advertise in 
                newspapers and magazines critical of the governments of 
                China and Hong Kong.
                    (C) The Hong Kong Police Force selectively blocked 
                demonstrations and protests expressing opposition to 
                the governments of China and Hong Kong or the policies 
                of those governments.
                    (D) The Government of Hong Kong refused to renew 
                work visa for a foreign journalist, allegedly for 
                hosting a speaker from the banned Hong Kong National 
                Party.
                    (E) The Justice Department of Hong Kong selectively 
                prosecuted cases against leaders of the Umbrella 
                Movement, while failing to prosecute police officers 
                accused of using excessive force during the protests in 
                2014.
                    (F) On April 18, 2020, the Hong Kong Police Force 
                arrested 14 high-profile democracy activists and 
                campaigners for their role in organizing a protest 
                march that took place on August 18, 2019, in which 
                almost 2,000,000 people rallied against a proposed 
                extradition bill.
            (14) Articles 45 and 68 of the Basic Law assert that the 
        selection of Chief Executive and all members of the Legislative 
        Council of Hong Kong should be by ``universal suffrage.''.
            (15) On multiple occasions, the Government of China has 
        undertaken actions that have contravened the letter or intent 
        of the obligation described in paragraph (14) of this section, 
        including the following:
                    (A) In 2004, the National People's Congress created 
                new, antidemocratic procedures restricting the adoption 
                of universal suffrage for the election of the Chief 
                Executive of Hong Kong.
                    (B) The decision by the National People's Congress 
                on December 29, 2007, which ruled out universal 
                suffrage in 2012 elections and set restrictions on when 
                and if universal suffrage will be implemented.
                    (C) The decision by the National People's Congress 
                on August 31, 2014, which placed limits on the 
                nomination process for the Chief Executive of Hong Kong 
                as a condition for adoption of universal suffrage.
                    (D) On November 7, 2016, the National People's 
                Congress interpreted Article 104 of the Basic Law in 
                such a way to disqualify 6 elected members of the 
                Legislative Council.
                    (E) In 2018, the Government of Hong Kong banned the 
                Hong Kong National Party and blocked the candidacy of 
                pro-democracy candidates.
            (16) The ways in which the Government of China, at times 
        with the support of a subservient Government of Hong Kong, has 
        acted in contravention of its obligations under the Joint 
        Declaration and the Basic Law, as set forth in this section, 
        are deeply concerning to the people of Hong Kong, the United 
        States, and members of the international community who support 
        the autonomy of Hong Kong.

SEC. 1704. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING HONG KONG.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States continues to uphold the principles 
        and policy established in the United States-Hong Kong Policy 
        Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) and the Hong Kong Human 
        Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 (Public Law 116-76; 22 U.S.C. 
        5701 note), which remain consistent with China's obligations 
        under the Joint Declaration and certain promulgated objectives 
        under the Basic Law, including that--
                    (A) as set forth in section 101(1) of the United 
                States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 
                5711(1)), ``The United States should play an active 
                role, before, on, and after July 1, 1997, in 
                maintaining Hong Kong's confidence and prosperity, Hong 
                Kong's role as an international financial center, and 
                the mutually beneficial ties between the people of the 
                United States and the people of Hong Kong.''; and
                    (B) as set forth in section 2(5) of the United 
                States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 
                5701(5)), ``Support for democratization is a 
                fundamental principle of United States foreign policy. 
                As such, it naturally applies to United States policy 
                toward Hong Kong. This will remain equally true after 
                June 30, 1997.'';
            (2) although the United States recognizes that, under the 
        Joint Declaration, the Government of China ``resumed the 
        exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong with effect on 1 July 
        1997'', the United States supports the autonomy of Hong Kong in 
        furtherance of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 
        and the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 and 
        advances the desire of the people of Hong Kong to continue the 
        ``one country, two systems'' regime, in addition to other 
        obligations promulgated by China under the Joint Declaration 
        and the Basic Law;
            (3) in order to support the benefits and protections that 
        Hong Kong has been afforded by the Government of China under 
        the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, the United States 
        should establish a clear and unambiguous set of penalties with 
        respect to foreign persons determined by the Secretary of 
        State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to 
        be involved in the contravention of the obligations of China 
        under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law and the financial 
        institutions transacting with those foreign persons;
            (4) the Secretary of State should provide an unclassified 
        assessment of the reason for imposition of certain economic 
        penalties on entities, so as to permit a clear path for the 
        removal of economic penalties if the sanctioned behavior is 
        reversed and verified by the Secretary of State;
            (5) relevant Federal agencies should establish a 
        multilateral sanctions regime with respect to foreign persons 
        involved in the contravention of the obligations of China under 
        the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law; and
            (6) in addition to the penalties on foreign persons, and 
        financial institutions transacting with those foreign persons, 
        for the contravention of the obligations of China under the 
        Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, the United States should 
        take steps, in a time of crisis, to assist permanent residents 
        of Hong Kong who are persecuted or fear persecution as a result 
        of the contravention by China of its obligations under the 
        Joint Declaration and the Basic Law to become eligible to 
        obtain lawful entry into the United States.

SEC. 1705. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN PERSONS INVOLVED IN THE EROSION OF 
              THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA UNDER THE JOINT DECLARATION OR 
              THE BASIC LAW AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT 
              CONDUCT SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS WITH THOSE PERSONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, if the Secretary of State, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Treasury, determines that a foreign person is 
materially contributing to, has materially contributed to, or attempts 
to materially contribute to the failure of the Government of China to 
meet its obligations under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law, the 
Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees and leadership a report that includes--
            (1) an identification of the foreign person; and
            (2) a clear explanation for why the foreign person was 
        identified and a description of the activity that resulted in 
        the identification.
    (b) Identifying Foreign Financial Institutions.--Not earlier than 
30 days and not later than 60 days after the Secretary of State submits 
to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership the report 
under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and leadership a report that identifies any 
foreign financial institution that knowingly conducts a significant 
transaction with a foreign person identified in the report under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Exclusion of Certain Information.--
            (1) Intelligence.--The Secretary of State shall not 
        disclose the identity of a person in a report submitted under 
        subsection (a) or (b), or an update under subsection (e), if 
        the Director of National Intelligence determines that such 
        disclosure could compromise an intelligence operation, 
        activity, source, or method of the United States.
            (2) Law enforcement.--The Secretary of State shall not 
        disclose the identity of a person in a report submitted under 
        subsection (a) or (b), or an update under subsection (e), if 
        the Attorney General, in coordination, as appropriate, with the 
        Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the head of 
        any other appropriate Federal law enforcement agency, and the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, determines that such disclosure 
        could reasonably be expected--
                    (A) to compromise the identity of a confidential 
                source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or 
                authority or any private institution that furnished 
                information on a confidential basis;
                    (B) to jeopardize the integrity or success of an 
                ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution;
                    (C) to endanger the life or physical safety of any 
                person; or
                    (D) to cause substantial harm to physical property.
            (3) Notification required.--If the Director of National 
        Intelligence makes a determination under paragraph (1) or the 
        Attorney General makes a determination under paragraph (2), the 
        Director or the Attorney General, as the case may be, shall 
        notify the appropriate congressional committees and leadership 
        of the determination and the reasons for the determination.
    (d) Exclusion or Removal of Foreign Persons and Foreign Financial 
Institutions.--
            (1) Foreign persons.--The President may exclude a foreign 
        person from the report under subsection (a), or an update under 
        subsection (e), or remove a foreign person from the report or 
        update prior to the imposition of sanctions under section 
        1706(a) if the material contribution (as described in 
        subsection (g)) that merited inclusion in that report or 
        update--
                    (A) does not have a significant and lasting 
                negative effect that contravenes the obligations of 
                China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
                    (B) is not likely to be repeated in the future; and
                    (C) has been reversed or otherwise mitigated 
                through positive countermeasures taken by that foreign 
                person.
            (2) Foreign financial institutions.--The President may 
        exclude a foreign financial institution from the report under 
        subsection (b), or an update under subsection (e), or remove a 
        foreign financial institution from the report or update prior 
        to the imposition of sanctions under section 1707(a) if the 
        significant transaction or significant transactions of the 
        foreign financial institution that merited inclusion in that 
        report or update--
                    (A) does not have a significant and lasting 
                negative effect that contravenes the obligations of 
                China under the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law;
                    (B) is not likely to be repeated in the future; and
                    (C) has been reversed or otherwise mitigated 
                through positive countermeasures taken by that foreign 
                financial institution.
            (3) Notification required.--If the President makes a 
        determination under paragraph (1) or (2) to exclude or remove a 
        foreign person or foreign financial institution from a report 
        under subsection (a) or (b), as the case may be, the President 
        shall notify the appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership of the determination and the reasons for the 
        determination.
    (e) Update of Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Each report submitted under subsections 
        (a) and (b) shall be updated in an ongoing manner and, to the 
        extent practicable, updated reports shall be resubmitted with 
        the annual report under section 301 of the United States-Hong 
        Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5731).
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to terminate the requirement to update the reports 
        under subsections (a) and (b) upon the termination of the 
        requirement to submit the annual report under section 301 of 
        the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 
        5731).
    (f) Form of Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Each report under subsection (a) or (b) 
        (including updates under subsection (e)) shall be submitted in 
        unclassified form and made available to the public.
            (2) Classified annex.--The explanations and descriptions 
        included in the report under subsection (a)(2) (including 
        updates under subsection (e)) may be expanded on in a 
        classified annex.
    (g) Material Contributions Related to Obligations of China 
Described.--For purposes of this section, a foreign person materially 
contributes to the failure of the Government of China to meet its 
obligations under the Joint Declaration or the Basic Law if the 
person--
            (1) took action that resulted in the inability of the 
        people of Hong Kong--
                    (A) to enjoy freedom of assembly, speech, press, or 
                independent rule of law; or
                    (B) to participate in democratic outcomes; or
            (2) otherwise took action that reduces the high degree of 
        autonomy of Hong Kong.

SEC. 1706. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN PERSONS THAT CONTRAVENE 
              THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA UNDER THE JOINT DECLARATION OR 
              THE BASIC LAW.

    (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--
            (1) In general.--On and after the date on which a foreign 
        person is included in the report under section 1705(a) or an 
        update to that report under section 1705(e), the President may 
        impose sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to 
        that foreign person.
            (2) Mandatory sanctions.--Not later than one year after the 
        date on which a foreign person is included in the report under 
        section 1705(a) or an update to that report under section 
        1705(e), the President shall impose sanctions described in 
        subsection (b) with respect to that foreign person.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection with respect to a foreign person are the following:
            (1) Property transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        person from--
                    (A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using, 
                transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or exporting 
                any property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the 
                United States and with respect to which the foreign 
                person has any interest;
                    (B) dealing in or exercising any right, power, or 
                privilege with respect to such property; or
                    (C) conducting any transaction involving such 
                property.
            (2) Exclusion from the united states and revocation of visa 
        or other documentation.--In the case of a foreign person who is 
        an individual, the President may direct the Secretary of State 
        to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to 
        exclude from the United States, the foreign person, subject to 
        regulatory exceptions to permit the United States to comply 
        with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
        Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into 
        force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the 
        United States, or other applicable international obligations.

SEC. 1707. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
              THAT CONDUCT SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS WITH FOREIGN 
              PERSONS THAT CONTRAVENE THE OBLIGATIONS OF CHINA UNDER 
              THE JOINT DECLARATION OR THE BASIC LAW.

    (a) Imposition of Sanctions.--
            (1) Initial sanctions.--Not later than one year after the 
        date on which a foreign financial institution is included in 
        the report under section 1705(b) or an update to that report 
        under section 1705(e), the President shall impose not fewer 
        than 5 of the sanctions described in subsection (b) with 
        respect to that foreign financial institution.
            (2) Expanded sanctions.--Not later than two years after the 
        date on which a foreign financial institution is included in 
        the report under section 1705(b) or an update to that report 
        under section 1705(e), the President shall impose each of the 
        sanctions described in subsection (b).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection with respect to a foreign financial institution are the 
following:
            (1) Loans from united states financial institutions.--The 
        United States Government may prohibit any United States 
        financial institution from making loans or providing credits to 
        the foreign financial institution.
            (2) Prohibition on designation as primary dealer.--Neither 
        the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System nor the 
        Federal Reserve Bank of New York may designate, or permit the 
        continuation of any prior designation of, the foreign financial 
        institution as a primary dealer in United States Government 
        debt instruments.
            (3) Prohibition on service as a repository of government 
        funds.--The foreign financial institution may not serve as 
        agent of the United States Government or serve as repository 
        for United States Government funds.
            (4) Foreign exchange.--The President may, pursuant to such 
        regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        transactions in foreign exchange that are subject to the 
        jurisdiction of the United States and involve the foreign 
        financial institution.
            (5) Banking transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions 
        or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent 
        that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction 
        of the United States and involve the foreign financial 
        institution.
            (6) Property transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        person from--
                    (A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using, 
                transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or exporting 
                any property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the 
                United States and with respect to which the foreign 
                financial institution has any interest;
                    (B) dealing in or exercising any right, power, or 
                privilege with respect to such property; or
                    (C) conducting any transaction involving such 
                property.
            (7) Restriction on exports, reexports, and transfers.--The 
        President, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, may 
        restrict or prohibit exports, reexports, and transfers (in-
        country) of commodities, software, and technology subject to 
        the jurisdiction of the United States directly or indirectly to 
        the foreign financial institution.
            (8) Ban on investment in equity or debt.--The President 
        may, pursuant to such regulations or guidelines as the 
        President may prescribe, prohibit any United States person from 
        investing in or purchasing significant amounts of equity or 
        debt instruments of the foreign financial institution.
            (9) Exclusion of corporate officers.--The President may 
        direct the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, to exclude from the United States any alien that is 
        determined to be a corporate officer or principal of, or a 
        shareholder with a controlling interest in, the foreign 
        financial institution, subject to regulatory exceptions to 
        permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding 
        the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success 
        June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, 
        between the United Nations and the United States, or other 
        applicable international obligations.
            (10) Sanctions on principal executive officers.--The 
        President may impose on the principal executive officer or 
        officers of the foreign financial institution, or on 
        individuals performing similar functions and with similar 
        authorities as such officer or officers, any of the sanctions 
        described in paragraphs (1) through (8) that are applicable.
    (c) Timing of Sanctions.--The President may impose sanctions 
required under subsection (a) with respect to a financial institution 
included in the report under section 1705(b) or an update to that 
report under section 1705(e) beginning on the day on which the 
financial institution is included in that report or update.

SEC. 1708. WAIVER, TERMINATION, EXCEPTIONS, AND CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW 
              PROCESS.

    (a) National Security Waiver.--Unless a disapproval resolution is 
enacted under subsection (d), the President may waive the application 
of sanctions under section 1706 or 1707 with respect to a foreign 
person or foreign financial institution if the President--
            (1) determines that the waiver is in the national security 
        interest of the United States; and
            (2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership a report on the determination and the reasons for 
        the determination.
    (b) Termination of Sanctions and Removal From Report.--Unless a 
disapproval resolution is enacted under subsection (d), the President 
may terminate the application of sanctions under section 1706 or 1707 
with respect to a foreign person or foreign financial institution and 
remove the foreign person from the report required under section 
1705(a) or the foreign financial institution from the report required 
under section 1705(b), as the case may be, if the Secretary of State, 
in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines that the 
actions taken by the foreign person or foreign financial institution 
that led to the imposition of sanctions--
            (1) do not have a significant and lasting negative effect 
        that contravenes the obligations of China under the Joint 
        Declaration and the Basic Law;
            (2) are not likely to be repeated in the future; and
            (3) have been reversed or otherwise mitigated through 
        positive countermeasures taken by that foreign person or 
        foreign financial institution.
    (c) Termination of Act.--
            (1) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than July 1, 2046, the 
                President, in consultation with the Secretary of State, 
                the Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of such 
                other Federal agencies as the President considers 
                appropriate, shall submit to Congress a report 
                evaluating the implementation of this title and 
                sanctions imposed pursuant to this title.
                    (B) Elements.--The President shall include in the 
                report submitted under subparagraph (A) an assessment 
                of whether this title and the sanctions imposed 
                pursuant to this title should be terminated.
            (2) Termination.--This title and the sanctions imposed 
        pursuant to this title shall remain in effect unless a 
        termination resolution is enacted under subsection (e) after 
        July 1, 2047.
    (d) Congressional Review.--
            (1) Resolutions.--
                    (A) Disapproval resolution.--In this section, the 
                term ``disapproval resolution'' means only a joint 
                resolution of either House of Congress--
                            (i) the title of which is as follows: ``A 
                        joint resolution disapproving the waiver or 
                        termination of sanctions with respect to a 
                        foreign person that contravenes the obligations 
                        of China with respect to Hong Kong or a foreign 
                        financial institution that conducts a 
                        significant transaction with that person.''; 
                        and
                            (ii) the sole matter after the resolving 
                        clause of which is the following: ``Congress 
                        disapproves of the action under section 1708 of 
                        the Hong Kong Autonomy Act relating to the 
                        application of sanctions imposed with respect 
                        to a foreign person that contravenes the 
                        obligations of China with respect to Hong Kong, 
                        or a foreign financial institution that 
                        conducts a significant transaction with that 
                        person, on _______ relating to ________.'', 
                        with the first blank space being filled with 
                        the appropriate date and the second blank space 
                        being filled with a short description of the 
                        proposed action.
                    (B) Termination resolution.--In this section, the 
                term ``termination resolution'' means only a joint 
                resolution of either House of Congress--
                            (i) the title of which is as follows: ``A 
                        joint resolution terminating sanctions with 
                        respect to foreign persons that contravene the 
                        obligations of China with respect to Hong Kong 
                        and foreign financial institutions that conduct 
                        significant transactions with those persons.''; 
                        and
                            (ii) the sole matter after the resolving 
                        clause of which is the following: ``The Hong 
                        Kong Autonomy Act and any sanctions imposed 
                        pursuant to that Act shall terminate on 
                        ____.'', with the blank space being filled with 
                        the termination date.
                    (C) Covered resolution.--In this subsection, the 
                term ``covered resolution'' means a disapproval 
                resolution or a termination resolution.
            (2) Introduction.--A covered resolution may be introduced--
                    (A) in the House of Representatives, by the 
                majority leader or the minority leader; and
                    (B) in the Senate, by the majority leader (or the 
                majority leader's designee) or the minority leader (or 
                the minority leader's designee).
            (3) Floor consideration in house of representatives.--If a 
        committee of the House of Representatives to which a covered 
        resolution has been referred has not reported the resolution 
        within 10 calendar days after the date of referral, that 
        committee shall be discharged from further consideration of the 
        resolution.
            (4) Consideration in the senate.--
                    (A) Committee referral.--
                            (i) Disapproval resolution.--A disapproval 
                        resolution introduced in the Senate shall be--
                                    (I) referred to the Committee on 
                                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs if 
                                the resolution relates to an action 
                                that is not intended to significantly 
                                alter United States foreign policy with 
                                regard to China; and
                                    (II) referred to the Committee on 
                                Foreign Relations if the resolution 
                                relates to an action that is intended 
                                to significantly alter United States 
                                foreign policy with regard to China.
                            (ii) Termination resolution.--A termination 
                        resolution introduced in the Senate shall be 
                        referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
                        and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Foreign 
                        Relations.
                    (B) Reporting and discharge.--If a committee to 
                which a covered resolution was referred has not 
                reported the resolution within 10 calendar days after 
                the date of referral of the resolution, that committee 
                shall be discharged from further consideration of the 
                resolution and the resolution shall be placed on the 
                appropriate calendar.
                    (C) Proceeding to consideration.--Notwithstanding 
                Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in 
                order at any time after the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs or the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations, as the case may be, reports a covered 
                resolution to the Senate or has been discharged from 
                consideration of such a resolution (even though a 
                previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed 
                to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the 
                resolution, and all points of order against the 
                resolution (and against consideration of the 
                resolution) are waived. The motion to proceed is not 
                debatable. The motion is not subject to a motion to 
                postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the 
                motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in 
                order.
                    (D) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals 
                from the decisions of the Chair relating to the 
                application of the rules of the Senate, as the case may 
                be, to the procedure relating to a covered resolution 
                shall be decided without debate.
                    (E) Consideration of veto messages.--Debate in the 
                Senate of any veto message with respect to a covered 
                resolution, including all debatable motions and appeals 
                in connection with the resolution, shall be limited to 
                10 hours, to be equally divided between, and controlled 
                by, the majority leader and the minority leader or 
                their designees.
            (5) Rules relating to senate and house of 
        representatives.--
                    (A) Treatment of senate resolution in house.--In 
                the House of Representatives, the following procedures 
                shall apply to a covered resolution received from the 
                Senate (unless the House has already passed a 
                resolution relating to the same proposed action):
                            (i) The resolution shall be referred to the 
                        appropriate committees.
                            (ii) If a committee to which a resolution 
                        has been referred has not reported the 
                        resolution within 2 calendar days after the 
                        date of referral, that committee shall be 
                        discharged from further consideration of the 
                        resolution.
                            (iii) Beginning on the third legislative 
                        day after each committee to which a resolution 
                        has been referred reports the resolution to the 
                        House or has been discharged from further 
                        consideration thereof, it shall be in order to 
                        move to proceed to consider the resolution in 
                        the House. All points of order against the 
                        motion are waived. Such a motion shall not be 
                        in order after the House has disposed of a 
                        motion to proceed on the resolution. The 
                        previous question shall be considered as 
                        ordered on the motion to its adoption without 
                        intervening motion. The motion shall not be 
                        debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by 
                        which the motion is disposed of shall not be in 
                        order.
                            (iv) The resolution shall be considered as 
                        read. All points of order against the 
                        resolution and against its consideration are 
                        waived. The previous question shall be 
                        considered as ordered on the resolution to 
                        final passage without intervening motion except 
                        2 hours of debate equally divided and 
                        controlled by the sponsor of the resolution (or 
                        a designee) and an opponent. A motion to 
                        reconsider the vote on passage of the 
                        resolution shall not be in order.
                    (B) Treatment of house resolution in senate.--
                            (i) Received before passage of senate 
                        resolution.--If, before the passage by the 
                        Senate of a covered resolution, the Senate 
                        receives an identical resolution from the House 
                        of Representatives, the following procedures 
                        shall apply:
                                    (I) That resolution shall not be 
                                referred to a committee.
                                    (II) With respect to that 
                                resolution--
                                            (aa) the procedure in the 
                                        Senate shall be the same as if 
                                        no resolution had been received 
                                        from the House of 
                                        Representatives; but
                                            (bb) the vote on passage 
                                        shall be on the resolution from 
                                        the House of Representatives.
                            (ii) Received after passage of senate 
                        resolution.--If, following passage of a covered 
                        resolution in the Senate, the Senate receives 
                        an identical resolution from the House of 
                        Representatives, that resolution shall be 
                        placed on the appropriate Senate calendar.
                            (iii) No senate companion.--If a covered 
                        resolution is received from the House of 
                        Representatives, and no companion resolution 
                        has been introduced in the Senate, the Senate 
                        procedures under this subsection shall apply to 
                        the resolution from the House of 
                        Representatives.
                    (C) Application to revenue measures.--The 
                provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the 
                House of Representatives to a covered resolution that 
                is a revenue measure.
            (6) Rules of house of representatives and senate.--This 
        subsection is enacted by Congress--
                    (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the 
                Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, 
                and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each 
                House, respectively, and supersedes other rules only to 
                the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
                    (B) with full recognition of the constitutional 
                right of either House to change the rules (so far as 
                relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, 
                in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the 
                case of any other rule of that House.

SEC. 1709. IMPLEMENTATION; PENALTIES.

    (a) Implementation.--The President may exercise all authorities 
provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to the extent necessary 
to carry out this title.
    (b) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of section 1706 or 1707 or 
any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out that section 
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) 
of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
act described in subsection (a) of that section.

SEC. 1710. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed as an authorization of 
military force against China.

SEC. 1711. EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS.

    (a) In General.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
sanctions under this title shall not include the authority or 
requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
    (b) Good Defined.--In this section, the term ``good'' means any 
article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or 
manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and 
excluding technical data.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021''.

SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
              SPECIFIED BY LAW.

    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Five Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, 
family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and 
authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later 
of--
            (1) October 1, 2025; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for military construction for fiscal year 2026.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
            (1) October 1, 2025; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds 
        for fiscal year 2026 for military construction projects, land 
        acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        Security Investment Program.

SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the 
later of--
            (1) October 1, 2020; or
            (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska......................................  Fort Wainwright..................................     $114,000,000
Arizona.....................................  Yuma Proving Ground..............................      $14,000,000
California..................................  Military Ocean Terminal Concord..................      $46,000,000
Colorado....................................  Fort Carson......................................      $28,000,000
Georgia.....................................  Fort Gillem......................................      $71,000,000
                                              Fort Gordon......................................      $80,000,000
Hawaii......................................  Aliamanu Military Reservation....................      $71,000,000
                                              Schofield Barracks...............................      $39,000,000
                                              Wheeler Army Airfield............................      $89,000,000
Louisiana...................................  Fort Polk........................................      $25,000,000
Oklahoma....................................  McAlester AAP....................................      $35,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Fort Jackson.....................................       $7,000,000
Virginia....................................  Humphreys Engineer Center........................      $51,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation outside the United States, and in the 
amount, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                        Installation                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy.......................................  Casmera Renato Dal Din...........................      $10,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Country                    Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy..................................  Vicenza....................  Family Housing New             $84,100,000
                                                                       Construction............
Kwajalein..............................  Kwajalein Atoll............  Family Housing                 $32,000,000
                                                                       Replacement Construction
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $3,300,000.

SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2017 
              PROJECT AT CAMP WALKER, KOREA.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2102(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1146) for Camp Walker, 
Korea, the Secretary of the Army may construct an elevated walkway 
between two existing parking garages to connect children's playgrounds 
using amounts available for Family Housing New Construction, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act (129 Stat. 
1290).

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California...................................   Camp Pendleton.................................     $115,530,000
                                               Lemoore.........................................     $187,220,000
                                               Point Mugu......................................      $26,700,000
                                               Port Hueneme....................................      $43,500,000
                                               San Diego.......................................     $128,500,000
                                               Seal Beach......................................      $46,800,000
                                               Twentynine Palms................................      $76,500,000
Hawaii.......................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................     $114,900,000
Maine........................................  Kittery.........................................     $715,000,000
                                               NCTAMS LANT Detachment Cutler...................      $26,100,000
Nevada.......................................  Fallon..........................................      $29,040,000
North Carolina...............................  Cherry Point....................................      $51,900,000
Virginia.....................................  Norfolk.........................................      $39,800,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain Island................................  SW Asia.........................................     $68,340,000
El Salvador...................................  Comalapa........................................     $28,000,000
Greece........................................  Souda Bay.......................................     $50,180,000
Guam..........................................  Andersen Air Force Base.........................     $21,280,000
                                                Joint Region Marianas...........................    $546,550,000
Spain.........................................  Rota............................................     $60,110,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $5,854,000.

SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $37,043,000.

SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Colorado.......................................  United States Air Force Academy.............        $49,000,000
New Jersey.....................................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst............        $22,000,000
South Dakota...................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base....................        $96,000,000
Texas..........................................  Joint Base San Antonio......................        $19,500,000
Utah...........................................  Hill Air Force Base.........................       $132,000,000
Virginia.......................................  Joint Base Langley-Eustis...................        $19,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guam...........................................  Andersen Air Force Base.....................        $56,000,000
Qatar..........................................  Al Udeid....................................        $26,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $2,969,000.

SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $94,245,000.

SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2018 
              PROJECT AT ROYAL AIR FORCE LAKENHEATH.

    (a) In General.--In the case of the authorization contained in the 
table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2018 (division B of Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 1826) 
for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may construct a 2,700 square meter consolidated corrosion 
control and wash rack facility at such location.
    (b) Increase of Amount.--The table in section 4601 of such Act is 
amended in the item relating to a Consolidated Corrosion Control 
Facility at Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, by striking 
``20,000,000'' and inserting ``55,300,000''.

SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2019 PROJECTS.

    (a) Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2246) for Eielson Air Force Base, Alaska, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 426 square meter non-
contained (outdoor) range with covered and heated firing line for 
construction of an F-35 CATM Range, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2404).
    (b) Barksdale Air Force Base, Louisiana.--
            (1) In general.--In the case of the authorization contained 
        in the table in section 2301(a) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of Public 
        Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2246) for Barksdale Air Force Base, 
        Louisiana, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct an 
        entrance road and gate complex consistent with the Unified 
        Facilities Criteria relating to entry control facilities and 
        the construction guidelines for the Air Force, in the amount of 
        $48,000,000.
            (2) Details of construction.--In constructing the entrance 
        road and gate complex under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the 
        Air Force may construct a 190 square meter visitor control 
        center, a 44 square meter gate house, a 124 square meter 
        privately owned vehicle inspection facility, a 338 square meter 
        truck inspection facility, and a 45 square meter gatehouse.
            (3) Construction in flood plain.--Construction under 
        paragraph (1) may be conducted in a flood plain and appropriate 
        mitigation measures shall be included in the project.
    (c) Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2301(b) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division B of 
Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2247) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, 
United Kingdom, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a 1,206 
square meter maintenance facility for construction of an F-35A ADAL 
Conventional Munitions MX, as specified in the funding table in section 
4601 of such Act (132 Stat. 2400).
    (d) Force Protection and Safety.--The table in section 4601 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (division 
B of Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 2406) is amended in the item 
relating to Force Protection and Safety, Air Force, Unspecified 
Worldwide Locations, by striking ``35,000'' and inserting ``50,000''.

SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2020 FAMILY HOUSING PROJECTS.

    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Section 2302 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Using amounts'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Planning and Design.--Using amounts''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may construct or acquire family housing 
units (including land, acquisition, and supporting facilities) at the 
installation, in the number of units, and in the amounts set forth in 
the following table:

                                           ``Air Force: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Country                   Installation or Location            Purpose                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany...............................  Spangdahlem Air Base.......  76 Units................     $53,584,000''.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Funding.--Section 2303 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended 
by striking ``$53,584,000'' and inserting ``$46,638,000''.

SEC. 2308. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
              2020 PROJECTS.

    (a) Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2912(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of 
Public Law 116-92) for Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida, the Secretary 
of the Air Force may construct--
            (1) not more than 4,770 square meters of aircraft support 
        equipment storage for construction of an Auxiliary Ground 
        Equipment Facility, as specified in the funding table in 
        section 4603 of such Act;
            (2) not more than 18,770 square meters of visiting quarters 
        for construction of Dorm Complex Phase 1, as specified in such 
        funding table;
            (3) 2,127 square meters of squadron operations and 2,875 
        square meters of aircraft maintenance unit for construction of 
        Ops/Aircraft Maintenance Unit/Hangar #2, as specified in such 
        funding table;
            (4) 2,127 square meters of squadron operations and 2,875 
        square meters of aircraft maintenance unit for construction of 
        Ops/Aircraft Maintenance Unit/Hangar #3, as specified in such 
        funding table;
            (5) not more than 3,420 square meters of headquarters for 
        construction of an Operations Group/Maintenance Group HQ, as 
        specified in such funding table;
            (6) not more than 930 square meters of equipment storage 
        for construction of a Security Forces Mobility Storage 
        Facility, as specified in such funding table;
            (7) not more than 7,000 meters of storm water piping, box 
        culverts, underground detention, and grading for surface 
        detention for construction of Site Development, Utilities & 
        Demo Phase 2, as specified in such funding table; and
            (8) not more than 12,471 meters of visiting quarters for 
        construction of Lodging Facilities Phase 1, as specified in 
        such funding table.
    (b) Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2912(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of 
Public Law 116-92) for Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, the Secretary 
of the Air Force may construct--
            (1) seven 2.5-megawatt diesel engine generators, seven 
        diesel exhaust fluid systems, 15-kilovolt switchgear, two 
        import/export inter-ties, five import-only inter-ties, and 800 
        square meters of switchgear facility for construction of an 
        Emergency Power Microgrid, as specified in the funding table in 
        section 4603 of such Act;
            (2) 2,536 square meters of warehouse for construction of a 
        Logistics Readiness Squadron Campus, as specified in such 
        funding table;
            (3) 4,218 square meters of operations center and 1,343 
        square meters of military working dog kennel for construction 
        of a Security Campus, as specified in such funding table;
            (4) 445 square meters of petroleum operations center, 268 
        square meters of de-icing liquid storage, and 173 square meters 
        of warehouse for construction of a Flightline Hangars Campus, 
        as specified in such funding table; and
            (5) 240 square meters of recreation complex and 270 square 
        meters of storage for construction of a Lake Campus, as 
        specified in such funding table.
    (c) Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia.--In the case of the 
authorization contained in the table in section 2912(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (division B of 
Public Law 116-92) for Joint Base Langley-Eustis, Virginia, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may construct up to 6,720 square meters of 
dormitory for construction of a Dormitory, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4603 of such Act.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Anniston Army Depot.............................     $18,000,000
Alaska........................................  Fort Greely.....................................     $48,000,000
Arizona.......................................  Fort Huachuca...................................     $33,728,000
                                                Yuma............................................     $49,500,000
California....................................  Beale Air Force Base............................     $22,800,000
Colorado......................................  Fort Carson.....................................     $15,600,000
CONUS Unspecified.............................  CONUS Unspecified...............................     $14,400,000
Florida.......................................  Hurlburt Field..................................     $83,120,000
Kentucky......................................  Fort Knox.......................................     $69,310,000
 New Mexico...................................  Kirtland Air Force Base.........................     $46,600,000
North Carolina................................  Fort Bragg......................................    $113,800,000
Ohio..........................................  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.................     $23,500,000
Texas.........................................  Fort Hood.......................................     $32,700,000
Virginia......................................  Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Fort Story    $112,500,000
Washington....................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord........................     $21,800,000
                                                Manchester......................................     $82,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation or location outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan........................................  Def Fuel Support Point Tsurumi................        $49,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY RESILIENCE AND CONSERVATION INVESTMENT 
              PROGRAM PROJECTS.

    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations inside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                    ERCIP Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Fort Rucker.....................................     $24,000,000
Arkansas......................................  Fort Smith Air National Guard Base..............      $2,600,000
District of Columbia..........................  Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling....................     $35,933,000
Georgia.......................................  Fort Benning....................................     $17,000,000
Mississippi...................................  MTA Camp Shelby.................................     $30,000,000
North Carolina................................  Fort Bragg......................................      $6,100,000
Ohio..........................................  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.................     $35,000,000
Tennessee.....................................  Memphis International Airport...................      $4,780,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, for the installations or locations outside the United States, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                    ERCIP Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Unspecified Worldwide........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations...............       $142,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.

SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.

    (a) Authorization.--Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2020, for contributions 
by the Secretary of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United 
States Code, for the share of the United States of the cost of projects 
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
authorized by section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 
4601.
    (b) Authority To Recognize NATO Authorization Amounts as Budgetary 
Resources for Project Execution.--When the United States is designated 
as the Host Nation for the purposes of executing a project under the 
NATO Security Investment Program (NSIP), the Department of Defense 
construction agent may recognize the NATO project authorization amounts 
as budgetary resources to incur obligations for the purposes of 
executing the NSIP project.

SEC. 2503. EXECUTION OF PROJECTS UNDER THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
              ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 138 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking section 2350m and inserting the 
following new section 2350m:
``Sec. 2350m. Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty 
              Organization Security Investment Program
    ``(a) Authority To Execute Projects.--When the United States is 
designated as the Host Nation for purposes of executing a project under 
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (in 
this section referred to as the `Program'), the Secretary of Defense 
may accept such designation and carry out such project consistent with 
the requirements of this section.
    ``(b) Project Funding.--The Secretary of Defense may fund 
authorized expenditures of projects accepted under subsection (a) 
with--
            ``(1) contributions under subsection (c);
            ``(2) appropriations of the Department of Defense for the 
        Program when directed by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        to apply amounts of such appropriations as part of the share of 
        contributions of the United States for the Program; or
            ``(3) any combination of amounts described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2).
    ``(c) Authority To Accept Contributions.--(1) The Secretary of 
Defense may accept contributions from the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization and member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization for the purpose of carrying out a project under subsection 
(a).
    ``(2) Contributions accepted under paragraph (1) shall be placed in 
an account established for the purpose of carrying out the project for 
which the funds were provided and shall remain available until 
expended.
    ``(3)(A) If contributions are made under paragraph (1) as 
reimbursement for a project or portion of a project previously 
completed by the Department of Defense, such contributions shall be 
credited to--
            ``(i) the appropriations used for the project or portion 
        thereof, if such appropriations have not yet expired; or
            ``(ii) the appropriations for the Program, if the 
        appropriations described in clause (i) have expired.
    ``(B) Funding credited under subparagraph (A) shall merge with and 
remain available for the same purposes and duration as the 
appropriations to which credited.
    ``(d) Obligation Authority.--The construction agent of the 
Department of Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense to execute 
a project under subsection (a) may recognize the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization project authorization amounts as budgetary resources to 
incur obligations against for the purposes of executing the project.
    ``(e) Insufficient Contributions.--(1) In the event that the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization does not agree to contribute funding for 
all costs necessary for the Department of Defense to carry out a 
project under subsection (a), including necessary personnel costs of 
the construction agent designated by the Department of Defense, 
contract claims, and any conjunctive funding requirements that exceed 
the project authorization or standards of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization, the Secretary of Defense, upon determination that 
completion of the project is in the national interest of the United 
States, may fund such costs using any funds available in appropriations 
for the Program.
    ``(2) The use of funds under paragraph (1) from appropriations for 
the Program may be in addition to or in place of any other funding 
sources otherwise available for the purposes for which those funds are 
used.
    ``(f) Authorized Expenditures Defined.--In this section, the term 
`authorized expenditures' means project expenses for which the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization has agreed to contribute funding.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter II of chapter 138 of such title is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 2350m and inserting the following new item:

``2350m. Execution of projects under the North Atlantic Treaty 
                            Organization Security Investment 
                            Program.''.
    (c) Conforming Repeals.--
            (1) 2019.--Section 2502 of the John S. McCain National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
        232; 132 Stat. 2252) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``(a) Authorization.--
                        Funds'' and inserting ``Funds''; and
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (b).
            (2) 2020.--Section 2502 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a) 
                Authorization.--Funds'' and inserting ``Funds''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (b).

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations in the 
Republic of Korea, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or
              Component                        Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army.................................  Camp Carroll...........  Site Development.......  $49,000,000
Army.................................  Camp Humphreys.........  Attack Reconnaissance    $99,000,000
                                                                 Battalion Hangar......
Army.................................  Camp Humphreys.........  Hot Refuel Point.......  $35,000,000
Navy.................................  COMROKFLT Naval Base,    Maritime Operations      $26,000,000
                                        Busan.................   Center................
Air Force............................  Daegu Air Base.........  AGE Facility and         $14,000,000
                                                                 Parking Apron.........
Air Force............................  Kunsan Air Base........  Backup Generator Plant.  $19,000,000
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Aircraft Corrosion       $12,000,000
                                                                 Control Facility
                                                                 (Phase 3).............
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Child Development        $20,000,000
                                                                 Center................
Air Force............................  Osan Air Base..........  Relocate Munitions       $84,000,000
                                                                 Storage Area Delta
                                                                 (Phase 1).............
Defense-Wide.........................  Camp Humphreys.........  Elementary School......  $58,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2512. QATAR FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.

    Pursuant to agreement with the State of Qatar for required in-kind 
contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installation in the State of Qatar, and 
in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   State of Qatar Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or
              Component                        Location                 Project                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (A12)...........  $63,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (B12)...........  $63,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (D10)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (009)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (007)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Armory/Mount...........  $7,200,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (A06)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Dining Facility........  $14,600,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (BOS)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (B04)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (A04)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Billet (AOS)...........  $77,000,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  Dining Facility........  $14,600,000
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  MSG (Base Operations     $9,300,000
                                                                 Support Facility).....
Air Force............................  Al Udeid...............  ITN (Communications      $3,500,000
                                                                 Facility).............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard installations or 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    State                                  Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.....................................  Tucson...........................................      $18,100,000
Arkansas....................................  Fort Chaffee.....................................      $15,000,000
California..................................  Bakersfield......................................       $9,300,000
Colorado....................................  Peterson Air Force Base..........................      $15,000,000
Indiana.....................................  Shelbyville......................................      $12,000,000
Kentucky....................................  Frankfort........................................      $15,000,000
Mississippi.................................  Brandon..........................................      $10,400,000
Nebraska....................................  North Platte.....................................       $9,300,000
New Jersey..................................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst.................      $15,000,000
Ohio........................................  Columbus.........................................      $15,000,000
Oklahoma....................................  Ardmore..........................................       $9,800,000
Oregon......................................  Hermiston........................................      $25,035,000
Puerto Rico.................................  Fort Allen.......................................      $37,000,000
South Carolina..............................  Joint Base Charleston............................      $15,000,000
Tennessee...................................  McMinnville......................................      $11,200,000
Texas.......................................  Fort Worth.......................................      $13,800,000
Utah........................................  Nephi............................................      $12,000,000
Virgin Islands..............................  St. Croix........................................      $39,400,000
Wisconsin...................................  Appleton.........................................      $11,600,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve installations or locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida.......................................  Gainesville....................................      $36,000,000
Massachusetts.................................  Devens Reserve Forces Training Area............       $8,700,000
North Carolina................................  Asheville......................................      $24,000,000
Wisconsin.....................................  Fort McCoy.....................................      $17,100,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
              CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
installations or locations inside the United States, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maryland......................................  Reisterstown...................................      $39,500,000
Minnesota.....................................  Naval Operational Support Center Minneapolis...      $12,800,000
Utah..........................................  Hill Air Force Base............................      $25,010,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard installations 
or locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Montgomery Regional Airport....................      $23,600,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas..........................      $20,000,000
Maryland......................................  Joint Base Andrews.............................       $9,400,000
North Dakota..................................  Hector International Airport...................      $17,500,000
Texas.........................................  Joint Base San Antonio.........................      $10,800,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
              ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the installation inside the United 
States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                        Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Texas.........................................  Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth..................      $39,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2020, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

SEC. 2607. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT FISCAL YEAR 2020 
              PROJECT IN ALABAMA.

    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020 (division B of Public Law 116-92) for Anniston Army Depot, 
Alabama, for construction of an Enlisted Transient Barracks as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601 of such Act, the 
Secretary of the Army may construct a training barracks at Fort 
McClellan, Alabama.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              BASE CLOSURE ACCOUNT.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2020, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.

SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
              CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

SEC. 2703. PLAN TO FINISH REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE 
              SECRETARY OF THE ARMY IN UMATILLA, OREGON.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Army shall submit to Congress a plan to finish 
remediation activities conducted by the Secretary in Umatilla, Oregon, 
by not later than three years after such date of enactment.

       TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

SEC. 2801. RESPONSIBILITY OF NAVY FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION 
              REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN FLEET READINESS CENTERS.

    In the case in which a Fleet Readiness Center is a tenant command 
aboard an installation of the Marine Corps, the Navy shall be 
responsible for programming, requesting, and executing any military 
construction requirements for the Fleet Readiness Center.

SEC. 2802. CONSTRUCTION OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT LAUNCH 
              FACILITIES AND LAUNCH CENTERS FOR AIR FORCE.

    (a) Authority to Carry Out Projects.--Subject to subsections (b) 
and (d) and within the amount appropriated for such purpose, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may carry out military construction projects 
to convert Minuteman III launch facilities and launch centers to 
ground-based strategic deterrent configurations.
    (b) Master Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Prior to the authority under subsection 
        (a) being available for use, the Secretary of the Air Force 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a master 
        plan, broken out by year and location, for the planned launch 
        facilities and launch centers to be converted to ground-based 
        strategic deterrent configurations pursuant to a project under 
        this section.
            (2) Spending plan.--The master plan submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include a spending plan with estimated 
        amounts to be requested with respect to each planned location 
        for conversion to ground-based strategic deterrent 
        configurations.
    (c) Management of Design and Construction.--The Secretary of the 
Air Force may select a single, prime contractor to manage the design 
and construction phases of projects carried out under subsection (a).
    (d) Congressional Notification.--
            (1) Report.--When a decision is made to carry out a project 
        under subsection (a) and before carrying out such project, the 
        Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report on that decision.
            (2) Elements.--Subject to paragraph (3), the report 
        submitted under paragraph (1) with respect to a project under 
        subsection (a) shall include a justification for carrying out 
        the project and a complete Department of Defense Form 1391 for 
        the project.
            (3) Single submission.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
        group multiple locations at which a project is to be carried 
        out under subsection (a) into a single submission on a 
        Department of Defense Form 1391 to allow all included locations 
        to be considered as a single project.
    (e) Funding.--In fiscal year 2021, the Secretary of the Air Force 
may expend amounts available to the Secretary for research, 
development, test, and evaluation for the purposes of planning and 
design to support the projects described in subsection (a).
    (f) Existing Authorities.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall use 
existing authorities, as applicable, to carry out this section, 
including sections 2304 and 2853 of title 10, United States Code.

                  Subtitle B--Military Family Housing

SEC. 2821. PROHIBITION ON SUBSTANDARD FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking section 2830 and inserting the 
following new section:
``Sec. 2830. Prohibition on substandard family housing units
    ``The Secretary concerned may not lease a substandard family 
housing unit to a member of a uniformed service for occupancy by such 
member.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter II of such chapter is amended by striking the item relating 
to section 2830 and inserting the following new item:

``2830. Prohibition on substandard family housing units.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2021.

SEC. 2822. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PRIVATIZED MILITARY HOUSING 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) Chief Housing Officer.--Section 2890a of title 10, United 
States Code--
            (1) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``housing 
                units'' and inserting ``all military housing''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``under subchapter IV and 
                this subchapter'' and inserting ``by the Department of 
                Defense under this chapter'';
            (2) is transferred so as to appear at the end of subchapter 
        III of chapter 169 of such title; and
            (3) is redesignated as section 2870a.
    (b) Privatized Housing Reform.--Subchapter V of chapter 169 of such 
title is amended--
            (1) in section 2890--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(15), by striking ``and held 
                in escrow'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``a'' before 
                ``landlord''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``executed as'' and 
                        inserting ``executed--
            ``(A) as'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), as designated by 
                        clause (i), by striking the period at the end 
                        and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
            ``(B) to avoid litigation if the tenant has retained legal 
        counsel or has sought military legal assistance under section 
        1044 of this title.'';
            (2) in section 2891--
                    (A) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``unit'' 
                                after ``different housing'';
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                inserting ``the'' before ``tenant''; 
                                and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting 
                        ``the'' before ``tenant'';
            (3) in section 2891a--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2), by adding a period at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subsection (d)(11)--
                            (i) by striking ``A landlord'' and 
                        inserting ``Upon request by a prospective 
                        tenant, a landlord''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``prospective tenants to 
                        housing units'' and inserting ``the prospective 
                        tenant to a housing unit''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)(2)(B) by striking ``the any'' 
                and inserting ``any'';
            (4) in section 2892a--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary concerned'' and 
                inserting ``(a) In General.--The Secretary concerned'';
                    (B) by striking ``years. In this section'' and 
                inserting ``years.
    ``(b) Maintenance Defined.--In this section'';
                    (C) in subsection (a), as designated by 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``housing unit, before 
                the prospective tenant'' and all that follows through 
                the period at the end and inserting ``housing unit--
            ``(1) not later than five business days before the 
        prospective tenant is asked to sign the lease, a summary of 
        maintenance conducted with respect to that housing unit for the 
        previous seven years; and
            ``(2) not later than two business days after requested by 
        the prospective tenant, all information regarding maintenance 
        conducted with respect to that housing unit during such 
        period.''; and
                    (D) in subsection (b), as designated by 
                subparagraph (B), by striking ``such period'' and 
                inserting ``the period specified in subsection 
                (a)(1)'';
            (5) in section 2893, by striking ``propensity for'' and 
        inserting ``pattern of''; and
            (6) in section 2894--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the 
                following new paragraph:
    ``(6) The dispute resolution process shall require the installation 
or regional commander (as the case may be) to record each dispute in 
the complaint database established under section 2894a of this 
title.'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), in the matter 
                        preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``24 
                        hours'' and inserting ``two business days'';
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``business'' 
                                before ``days''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``, such office'' 
                                before ``shall complete'';
                            (iii) in paragraph (4), in the matter 
                        preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, at 
                        a minimum,'' before ``the following persons'';
                            (iv) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) by inserting ``calendar'' 
                                before ``days'' each place it appears; 
                                and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by 
                                striking ``30-day period'' and 
                                inserting ``30-calendar-day period''; 
                                and
                            (v) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting 
                        the following new paragraph (6):
    ``(6) Except as provided in paragraph (5)(B), a final decision 
shall be transmitted to the tenant, landlord, and the installation or 
regional commander (as the case may be) not later than 30 calendar days 
after the request was submitted.''; and
                    (C) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking paragraph (3);
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as 
                        paragraph (3);
                            (iii) in paragraph (1), in the matter 
                        preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``, the 
                        tenant may'' and all that follows through ``in 
                        which--'' and inserting ``regarding maintenance 
                        guidelines or procedures or habitability, the 
                        tenant may request that all or part of the 
                        payments described in paragraph (3) for lease 
                        of the housing unit be segregated and not used 
                        by the property owner, property manager, or 
                        landlord pending completion of the dispute 
                        resolution process.
    ``(2) The amount allowed to be withheld under paragraph (1) shall 
be limited to amounts associated with the period in which--''; and
                            (iv) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by 
                        clause (ii), by striking ``Paragraph (1)'' and 
                        inserting ``This subsection''.
    (c) Reports.--Section 2884(c)(10) of such title is amended by 
striking ``specific analysis'' and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting ``list of dispute resolution cases by 
installation and the final outcome of each such case.''.
    (d) Payment Authority.--Section 606(a) of the John S. McCain 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 
115-232; 10 U.S.C. 2871 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``monthly'' before 
        ``payments'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``payments to'' and 
        all that follows through ``subparagraph (C)'' and inserting 
        ``monthly payments, under such terms and in such amounts as 
        determined by the Secretary, to one of more lessors responsible 
        for underfunded MHPI housing projects identified pursuant to 
        subparagraph (C) under the jurisdiction of the Secretary''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting ``that'' before 
        ``require''.
    (e) Suspension of Resident Energy Conservation Program.--Section 
3063(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 
(Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``on the installation military housing 
        unit''; and
            (2) by striking ``on the'' and inserting ``covered by a 
        program suspended under subsection (a) on that''.
    (f) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Chief housing officer.--
                    (A) Addition.--The table of sections at the 
                beginning of subchapter III of chapter 169 of title 10, 
                United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
                item relating to section 2870 the following new item:

``2870a. Chief Housing Officer.''.
                    (B) Repeal.--The table of sections at the beginning 
                of subchapter V of chapter 169 of such title is amended 
                by striking the item relating to section 2890a.
            (2) Disclosure of personally identifiable information.--The 
        table of sections at the beginning of subchapter V of such 
        title is amended by striking the item relating to section 2892b 
        and inserting the following new item:

``2892b. Prohibition on requirement to disclose personally identifiable 
                            information in requests for certain 
                            maintenance.''.

SEC. 2823. REQUIREMENT THAT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE IMPLEMENT 
              RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING 
              CONTAINED IN REPORT BY INSPECTOR GENERAL OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall implement the recommendations of the 
Inspector General of the Department of Defense contained in the report 
of the Inspector General dated April 30, 2020, and entitled 
``Evaluation of the DoD's Management of Health and Safety Hazards in 
Government-Owned and Government-Controlled Military Family Housing''.

          Subtitle C--Project Management and Oversight Reforms

SEC. 2841. PROMOTION OF ENERGY RESILIENCE AND ENERGY SECURITY IN 
              PRIVATIZED UTILITY SYSTEMS.

    (a) Utility Privatization Contract Renewals.--Section 2688(d)(2) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by inserting ``or the renewal of 
        such a contract'' after ``paragraph (1)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``A 
        renewal of a contract pursuant to this paragraph may be entered 
        into only within the last 5 years of the existing contract 
        term.''.
    (b) Use of ERCIP Funds on Privatized Utility Systems.--Section 2914 
of such title is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c) Use of Certain Other Authorities.--A project under this 
section may be--
            ``(1) carried out in conjunction with the authorities 
        provided in subsections (j), and (k) of section 2688 of this 
        title and section 2913 of this title, notwithstanding that the 
        United States does not own a utility system covered by the 
        project; or
            ``(2) included as a separate requirement in a contract 
        entered into pursuant to title VIII of the National Energy 
        Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287 et seq.).''.

SEC. 2842. CONSIDERATION OF ENERGY SECURITY AND ENERGY RESILIENCE IN 
              LIFE-CYCLE COST FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 169 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2815 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2816. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in 
              life-cycle cost for military construction
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary concerned, when evaluating the 
life-cycle designed cost of a covered military construction project, 
shall include as a facility requirement the long-term consideration of 
energy security and energy resilience that would ensure that the 
resulting facility is capable of continuing to perform its missions, 
during the life of the facility, in the event of a natural or human-
caused disaster, an attack, or any other unplanned event that would 
otherwise interfere with the ability of the facility to perform its 
missions.
    ``(2) A facility requirement under paragraph (1) shall not be 
weighed, for cost purposes, against other facility requirements in 
determining the design of the facility.
    ``(b) Inclusion in the Building Life-cycle Cost Program.--The 
Secretary shall include the requirements of subsection (a) in applying 
the latest version of the building life-cycle cost program, as 
developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, to 
consider on-site distributed energy assets in a building design for a 
covered military construction project.
    ``(c) Covered Military Construction Project Defined.--(1) In this 
section, the term `covered military construction project' means a 
military construction project for a facility that is used to perform 
critical functions during a natural or human-caused disaster, an 
attack, or any other unplanned event.
    ``(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the term `facility' includes 
any of the following:
            ``(A) Operations centers.
            ``(B) Nuclear command and control facilities.
            ``(C) Integrated strategic and tactical warning and attack 
        assessment facilities.
            ``(D) Continuity of government facilities.
            ``(E) Missile defense facilities.
            ``(F) Air defense facilities.
            ``(G) Hospitals.
            ``(H) Armories and readiness centers of the National Guard.
            ``(I) Communications facilities.
            ``(J) Satellite and missile launch and control 
        facilities.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter I of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2815 the following new item:

``2816. Consideration of energy security and energy resilience in life-
                            cycle cost for military construction.''.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2861. RENEWAL OF FALLON RANGE TRAINING COMPLEX LAND WITHDRAWAL AND 
              RESERVATION.

    Notwithstanding section 3015 of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act 
of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 892), the withdrawal 
and reservation of lands (known as the Fallon Range Training Complex) 
made by section 3011(a) of such Act (113 Stat. 885) shall terminate on 
November 6, 2041.

SEC. 2862. RENEWAL OF NEVADA TEST AND TRAINING RANGE LAND WITHDRAWAL 
              AND RESERVATION.

    Notwithstanding section 3015 of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act 
of 1999 (title XXX of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 892), the withdrawal 
and reservation of lands (known as the Nevada Test and Training Range) 
made by section 3011(b) of such Act (113 Stat. 886) shall terminate on 
November 6, 2041.

SEC. 2863. TRANSFER OF LAND UNDER THE ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR WITHIN NAVAL SUPPORT 
              ACTIVITY PANAMA CITY, FLORIDA.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Interior shall transfer to the 
Secretary of the Navy, without consideration, approximately 1.23 acres 
of land within Naval Support Activity Panama City, Florida, that are 
used on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act by the 
Department of the Navy pursuant to Executive Order 10355 (17 Fed. Reg. 
4831; relating to delegating to the Secretary of the Interior the 
authority of the President to withdraw or reserve lands of the United 
States for public purposes) and the public land order entitled ``Public 
Land Order 952'' (19 Fed. Reg. 2085 (April 10, 1954)).
    (b) Status of Federal Land After Transfer.--Upon completion of a 
transfer to the Secretary of the Navy of a parcel of land under 
subsection (a), the parcel received by the Secretary of the Navy shall 
cease to be public land and shall be treated as property (as defined in 
section 102(9) of title 40, United States Code) under the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy.
    (c) Reimbursement.--The Secretary of the Navy shall reimburse the 
Secretary of the Interior for any costs incurred by the Secretary of 
the Interior for preparing a legal description of the land to be 
transferred under subsection (a).

SEC. 2864. LAND CONVEYANCE, CAMP NAVAJO, ARIZONA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army (in this 
section referred to as the ``Secretary'') may convey, without 
consideration, to the State of Arizona Department of Emergency and 
Military Affairs (in this section referred to as the ``State''), all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
real property (in this section referred to as the ``Property''), 
including any improvements thereon, consisting of not more than 3,000 
acres at Camp Navajo, Arizona, for the purpose of permitting the State 
to use the Property for--
            (1) training the Arizona Army and Air National Guard; and
            (2) defense industrial base economic development purposes 
        that are compatible with the environmental security and primary 
        National Guard training purpose of Camp Navajo.
    (b) Conditions on Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized by 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:
            (1) Use of revenues.--The State shall use all revenues 
        generated by uses of the Property to support the training 
        requirements of the Arizona Army and Air National Guard, to 
        include necessary infrastructure maintenance and capital 
        improvements.
            (2) Audit.--The United States Property and Fiscal Office 
        for the State of Arizona shall periodically audit all revenues 
        generated by uses of the Property and all uses of such revenue, 
        and shall provide the audit results to the Chief of the 
        National Guard Bureau.
    (c) Reversionary Interest.--
            (1) In general.--If the Secretary determines at any time 
        that the Property is not being used in accordance with the 
        purpose of the conveyance authorized by subsection (a), or that 
        the State has not complied with the conditions specified in 
        subsection (b), all right, title, and interest in and to the 
        Property, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the 
        option of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of 
        the United States, and the United States shall have the right 
        of immediate entry onto the Property.
            (2) Record.--A determination by the Secretary under 
        paragraph (1) shall be made on the record after an opportunity 
        for a hearing.
    (d) Alternative Consideration Option.--
            (1) Consideration option.--In lieu of exercising the 
        reversionary interest under subsection (c), the Secretary may 
        accept an offer by the State to pay to the United States an 
        amount equal to the fair market value of the Property, 
        excluding the value of any improvements on the Property 
        constructed without Federal funds after the date of the 
        conveyance authorized by subsection (a), as determined by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration 
        received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be 
        deposited in the special account in the Treasury established 
        for the Secretary under subsection (e) of section 2667 of title 
        10, United States Code, and shall be available to the Secretary 
        for the same uses and subject to the same limitations as 
        provided in that section.
    (e) Payment of Cost of Conveyance.--
            (1) Payment required.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall require the 
                State to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, 
                or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred 
                by the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under 
                subsection (a), including survey costs, costs for 
                environmental documentation related to the conveyance, 
                and any other administrative costs related to the 
                conveyance.
                    (B) Refund of excess amounts.--If amounts are 
                collected from the State in advance of the Secretary 
                incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected 
                exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to 
                carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund 
                the excess amount to the State.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
        reimbursement under paragraph (1)(A) shall be credited to the 
        fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred by 
        the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or, if the period 
        of availability for obligations for that appropriation has 
        expired, to the appropriations or fund that is currently 
        available to the Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so 
        credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account, 
        and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to 
        the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
        account.
    (f) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the Property shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States.
    (h) Environmental Obligations.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as alleviating, altering, or affecting the responsibility of 
the United States for cleanup and remediation of the Property in 
accordance with--
            (1) the Defense Environmental Restoration Program under 
        section 2701(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code; and
            (2) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
        and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 2881. MILITARY FAMILY READINESS CONSIDERATIONS IN BASING 
              DECISIONS.

    (a) Taking of Considerations Into Account Required.--In determining 
whether to proceed with any basing decision in the United States after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall take into account, among such other factors 
as such Secretary considers appropriate, the military family readiness 
considerations specified in subsection (b).
    (b) Military Family Readiness Considerations.--The military family 
readiness considerations specified in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Interstate portability of professional licensure and 
        certification credentials.--The extent to which the State in 
        which the installation subject to the basing decision is or 
        will be located accepts as valid professional licensure and 
        certification credentials obtained in other States, including 
        professional licensure and certification credentials in the 
        following professional fields (and any subfield of such field):
                    (A) Accounting.
                    (B) Cosmetology.
                    (C) Emergency medical service.
                    (D) Engineering.
                    (E) Law.
                    (F) Nursing.
                    (G) Physical therapy.
                    (H) Psychology.
                    (I) Teaching.
                    (J) Such other professional fields (and subfields 
                of such fields) as the Secretary of Defense shall 
                specify for purposes of this paragraph.
            (2) Public education.--The extent to which public education 
        is available and accessible to dependents of members of the 
        Armed Forces in the military housing area in which the 
        installation subject to the basing decision is or will be 
        located, including with respect to the following:
                    (A) Academic performance of schools, including 
                student-to-teacher ratios and learning rates and 
                graduation rates.
                    (B) Social climate within schools, including 
                absenteeism rates and suspension rates.
                    (C) Availability, accessibility, and quality of 
                services, including pre-kindergarten, counselors and 
                mental health support, student-to-nurse ratios, and 
                services for military dependents with special needs as 
                required by law.
            (3) Housing.--The extent to which housing (including family 
        housing) that meets Department of Defense requirements is 
        available and accessible to members of the Armed Forces through 
        the private sector in the military housing area in which the 
        installation subject to the basing decision is or will be 
        located.
            (4) Health care.--The extent to which primary healthcare 
        and specialty healthcare is available and accessible to 
        dependents of members of the Armed Forces through the private 
        sector in the local community in which the installation subject 
        to the basing decision is or will be located, including care 
        for military dependents with special needs.
            (5) Intergovernmental support.--The extent to which the 
        State in which the installation subject to the basing decision 
        is or will be located, and local governments in the vicinity of 
        the installation, have or will have intergovernmental support 
        agreements with the installation for the effective and 
        efficient provision of public services to the installation.
            (6) Other considerations.--Such other considerations in 
        connection with military family readiness as the Secretary of 
        Defense shall specify for purposes of this subsection.
    (c) Analytical Framework.--The Secretary of a military department 
shall take into account the considerations specified in subsection (b), 
among such other factors as the Secretary considers appropriate, in 
determining whether to proceed with a basing decision under subsection 
(a) using an analytical framework developed by the Secretary for that 
purpose that uses criteria based on quantitative data available to the 
Department of Defense and on such reliable quantitative data from 
sources outside the Department as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (d) Basing Decision Scorecard.--
            (1) In general.--Each Secretary of a military department 
        shall establish and maintain a scorecard on military 
        installations under the jurisdiction of such Secretary, and on 
        States and localities in which such installations are or may be 
        located, relevant to the taking into account of the 
        considerations specified in subsection (b) in determinations of 
        such Secretary on basing decisions as required by subsection 
        (a).
            (2) Update.--Each Secretary shall update the scorecard 
        required of such Secretary by this subsection not less 
        frequently than once each year in order to keep the information 
        in such scorecard as current as is practicable.
            (3) Availability to public.--A current version of each 
        scorecard under this subsection shall be available to the 
        public through an Internet website of the military department 
        concerned that is accessible to the public.
    (e) Briefings.--Not later than April 1 of each of 2021, 2022, and 
2023, the Secretary of Defense shall brief the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on actions 
taken pursuant to this section, including a description and assessment 
of the effect of the taking into account of the considerations 
specified in subsection (b) on particular basing decisions in the 
United States during the one-year period ending on the date of the 
briefing.
    (f) Basing Decision Defined.--In this section, the term ``basing 
decision'' means any of the following:
            (1) The establishment of a new mission at a military 
        installation.
            (2) The relocation of an existing mission from a military 
        installation to another military installation.
            (3) The establishment of a new military installation.

SEC. 2882. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO REDUCE AIR BASE RESILIENCY OR 
              DEMOLISH PROTECTED AIRCRAFT SHELTERS IN THE EUROPEAN 
              THEATER WITHOUT CREATING A SIMILAR PROTECTION FROM 
              ATTACK.

    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or any other Act 
for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement 
any activity that reduces air base resiliency or demolishes protected 
aircraft shelters in the European theater, and the Department may not 
otherwise implement any such activity, without creating a similar 
protection from attack in the European theater until such time as the 
Secretary of Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees 
that protected aircraft shelters are not required in the European 
theater.

SEC. 2883. PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO CLOSURE OR RETURNING TO HOST NATION 
              OF EXISTING BASES UNDER THE EUROPEAN CONSOLIDATION 
              INITIATIVE.

    (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--No funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act for fiscal year 2021 for the Department of 
Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any activity that 
closes or returns to the host nation any existing base under the 
European Consolidation Initiative.
    (b) Prohibition on Closure or Return.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall not implement any activity that closes or returns to the host 
nation any existing base under the European Consolidation Initiative 
until the Secretary certifies that there is no longer a need for a 
rotational military presence in the European theater.

SEC. 2884. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT CONDITIONAL GIFTS OF REAL 
              PROPERTY ON BEHALF OF MILITARY MUSEUMS.

    Section 2601(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``a military museum,'' after ``offered to''.

SEC. 2885. EQUAL TREATMENT OF INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND 
              CREDIT UNIONS OPERATING ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(l) Treatment of Insured Depository Institutions.--(1) Each 
covered insured depository institution operating on a military 
installation within the continental United States may be allotted space 
or leased land on the military installation without charge for rent or 
services in the same manner as a credit union organized under State law 
or a Federal credit union under section 124 of the Federal Credit Union 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1770) if space is available.
    ``(2) Each covered insured depository institution, credit union 
organized under State law, and Federal credit union operating on a 
military installation within the continental United States shall be 
treated equally with respect to policies of the Department of Defense 
governing the financial terms of leases, logistical support, services, 
and utilities.
    ``(3) The Secretary concerned shall not be required to provide no-
cost office space or a no-cost land lease to any covered insured 
depository institution, credit union organized under State law, or 
Federal credit union.
    ``(4) In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `covered insured depository institution' 
        means an insured depository institution that meets the 
        requirements applicable to a credit union organized under State 
        law or a Federal credit union under section 124 of the Federal 
        Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1770). The depositors of an insured 
        depository institution shall be considered members for purposes 
        of the application of this subparagraph to that section.
            ``(B) The term `Federal credit union' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1752).
            ``(C) The term `insured depository institution' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
        Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).''.

SEC. 2886. REPORT ON OPERATIONAL AVIATION UNITS IMPACTED BY NOISE 
              RESTRICTIONS OR NOISE MITIGATION MEASURES.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
Secretary of the Air Force or the Secretary of the Navy determines that 
noise restrictions placed on an operational aviation unit under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned prohibit the unit from reaching 
a combat ready or deployable status or prohibit the maintaining of 
aircrew currency requirements or required noise mitigation measures 
become cost prohibitive to the Department of Defense, the Secretary 
concerned, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth--
            (1) recommendations to preserve or restore the readiness of 
        such unit; and
            (2) appropriate steps to be taken by the Secretary 
        concerned to lower the cost of noise mitigation measures.
    (b) Cost Prohibitive.--A required noise mitigation measure shall be 
considered cost prohibitive to the Department of Defense for purposes 
of subsection (a) if the cost to implement the measure at an 
installation exceeds 10 percent of the annual budget for the 
installation for facilities sustainment, restoration, and 
modernization.

SEC. 2887. TRANSFER OF FUNDS FOR OKLAHOMA CITY NATIONAL MEMORIAL 
              ENDOWMENT FUND.

    Section 7(1) of the Oklahoma City National Memorial Act of 1997 (16 
U.S.C. 450ss-5(1)) is amended by striking ``there is hereby 
authorized'' and inserting ``the Secretary may provide, from the 
National Park Service's national recreation and preservation account, 
the remainder of''.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction project for the installation outside the 
United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Spain.........................................  Rota...........................................      $59,230,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
              PROJECTS.

    The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry 
out the military construction projects for the installations outside 
the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                       Installation                        Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Ramstein.......................................      $36,345,000
                                                Spangdahlem Air Base...........................      $25,824,000
Romania.......................................  Campia Turzii..................................     $130,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2020, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this title as 
specified in the funding table in section 4602.

SEC. 2904. REPLENISHMENT OF CERTAIN MILITARY CONSTRUCTIONS FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2021 by section 2903 and available as specified in the 
funding table in section 4602, $3,600,000,000 shall be available for 
replenishment of funds that were authorized to be appropriated by 
military construction authorization Acts for fiscal years before fiscal 
year 2021 for military construction projects authorized by such Acts, 
but were used instead for military construction projects authorized by 
section 2808 of title 10, United States Code, in connection with the 
national emergency along the southern land border of the United States 
declared in 2019 pursuant to the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 
1601 et seq.).
    (b) Replenishment by Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Any amounts available under subsection (a) 
        that are used for replenishment of funds as described in that 
        subsection shall be transferred to the account that was the 
        source of such funds.
            (2) Inapplicability toward transfer limitations.--Any 
        transfer of amounts under this subsection shall not count 
        toward any limitation on transfer of Department of Defense 
        funds in section 1001 or 1512 or any other limitation on 
        transfer of Department of funds in law.
            (3) Sunset of authority.--The authority to make transfers 
        under this subsection shall terminate on September 30, 2021.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts transferred under subsection (b) 
        for replenishment of funds as described in subsection (a) may 
        be used only for military construction projects for which such 
        funds were originally authorized in a military construction 
        authorization Act described in subsection (a).
            (2) No increase in authorized amount of projects.--The 
        total amount of funds available for a military construction 
        project described in paragraph (1) may not exceed the current 
        amount authorized for such project by applicable military 
        construction authorization Acts (including this Act). A 
        replenishment of funds under this section for a military 
        construction project shall not operate to increase the 
        authorized amount of the project or the amount authorized to be 
        available for the project.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
            Project 21-D-510, HE Synthesis, Formulation, and 
        Production, Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas, $31,000,000.
            Project 21-D-511, Savannah River Plutonium Processing 
        Facility, Savannah River Site, Aiken, South Carolina, 
        $241,900,000.
            Project 21-D-512, Plutonium Pit Production Project, Los 
        Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 
        $226,000,000.
            Project 21-D-530, KL Steam and Condensate Upgrades, Knolls 
        Atomic Power Laboratory, Schenectady, New York, $4,000,000.
            General Plant Project, U1a.03 Test Bed Facility 
        Improvements, Nevada National Security Side, Nevada, 
        $16,000,000.
            General Plant Project, TA-15 DARHT Hydro Vessel Repair 
        Facility, Los Alamos National Laboratory, New Mexico, 
        $16,500,000.

SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for 
defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as 
specified in the funding table in section 4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup 
activities, the following new plant project:
    Project 21-D-401, Hoisting Capability Project, Waste Isolation 
Pilot Plant, Carlsbad, New Mexico, $10,000,000.

SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2021 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.

SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2021 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Budget of the National Nuclear Security Administration

SEC. 3111. REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS BUDGET.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XVII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 4717. REVIEW OF ADEQUACY OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS BUDGET.

    ``(a) Review of Adequacy of Administration Budget by Nuclear 
Weapons Council.--
            ``(1) Transmission to council.--The Secretary of Energy 
        shall transmit to the Nuclear Weapons Council (in this section 
        referred to as the `Council') a copy of the proposed budget 
        request of the Administration for each fiscal year before that 
        budget request is submitted to the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget in relation to the preparation of the 
        budget of the President to be submitted to Congress under 
        section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code.
            ``(2) Review and determination of adequacy.--
                    ``(A) Review.--The Council shall review each budget 
                request transmitted to the Council under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Determination of adequacy.--
                            ``(i) Inadequate requests.--If the Council 
                        determines that a budget request for a fiscal 
                        year transmitted to the Council under paragraph 
                        (1) is inadequate, in whole or in part, to 
                        implement the objectives of the Department of 
                        Defense with respect to nuclear weapons for 
                        that fiscal year, the Council shall submit to 
                        the Secretary of Energy a written description 
                        of funding levels and specific initiatives that 
                        would, in the determination of the Council, 
                        make the budget request adequate to implement 
                        those objectives.
                            ``(ii) Adequate requests.--If the Council 
                        determines that a budget request for a fiscal 
                        year transmitted to the Council under paragraph 
                        (1) is adequate to implement the objectives 
                        described in clause (i) for that fiscal year, 
                        the Council shall submit to the Secretary of 
                        Energy a written statement confirming the 
                        adequacy of the request.
                            ``(iii) Records.--The Council shall 
                        maintain a record of each description submitted 
                        under clause (i) and each statement submitted 
                        under clause (ii).
            ``(3) Department of energy response.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the Council submits to the 
                Secretary of Energy a written description under 
                paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to the budget request 
                of the Administration for a fiscal year, the Secretary 
                shall include as an appendix to the budget request 
                submitted to the Director of the Office of Management 
                and Budget--
                            ``(i) the funding levels and initiatives 
                        identified in the description under paragraph 
                        (2)(B)(i); and
                            ``(ii) any additional comments the 
                        Secretary considers appropriate.
                    ``(B) Transmission to congress.--The Secretary of 
                Energy shall transmit to Congress, with the budget 
                justification materials submitted in support of the 
                Department of Energy budget for a fiscal year (as 
                submitted with the budget of the President under 
                section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code), a 
                copy of the appendix described in subparagraph (A).
    ``(b) Review and Certification of Department of Energy Budget by 
Nuclear Weapons Council.--
            ``(1) In general.--At the time the Secretary of Energy 
        submits the budget request of the Department of Energy for that 
        fiscal year to the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget in relation to the preparation of the budget of the 
        President, the Secretary shall transmit a copy of the budget 
        request of the Department to the Council.
            ``(2) Certification.--The Council shall--
                    ``(A) review the budget request transmitted to the 
                Council under paragraph (1);
                    ``(B) based on the review under subparagraph (A), 
                make a determination with respect to whether the budget 
                request includes the funding levels and initiatives 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i); and
                    ``(C) submit to Congress--
                            ``(i)(I) a certification that the budget 
                        request is adequate to implement the objectives 
                        described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i); or
                            ``(II) a statement that the budget request 
                        is not adequate to implement those objectives; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) a copy of the written description 
                        submitted by the Council to the Secretary under 
                        subsection (a)(2)(B)(i), if any.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4716 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4717. Review of adequacy of nuclear weapons budget.''.

                     Subtitle C--Personnel Matters

SEC. 3121. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new section:

``SEC. 3248. ALTERNATIVE PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator may adapt the pay banding and 
performance-based pay adjustment demonstration project carried out by 
the Administration under the authority provided by section 4703 of 
title 5, United States Code, into a permanent alternative personnel 
system for the Administration (to be known as the `National Nuclear 
Security Administration Personnel System') and implement that system 
with respect to employees of the Administration.
    ``(b) Modifications.--In adapting the demonstration project 
described in subsection (a) into a permanent alternative personnel 
system, the Administrator--
            ``(1) may, subject to paragraph (2), revise the 
        requirements and limitations of the demonstration project to 
        the extent necessary; and
            ``(2) shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that the permanent alternative 
                personnel system is carried out in a manner consistent 
                with the final plan for the demonstration project 
                published in the Federal Register on December 21, 2007 
                (72 Fed. Reg. 72776);
                    ``(B) ensure that significant changes in the system 
                not take effect until revisions to the plan for the 
                demonstration project are approved by the Office of 
                Personnel Management and published in the Federal 
                Register;
                    ``(C) ensure that procedural modifications or 
                clarifications to the final plan for the demonstration 
                project be made through local notification processes;
                    ``(D) authorize, and establish incentives for, 
                employees of the Administration to have rotational 
                assignments among different programs of the 
                Administration, the headquarters and field offices of 
                the Administration, and the management and operating 
                contractors of the Administration; and
                    ``(E) establish requirements for employees of the 
                Administration who are in the permanent alternative 
                personnel system described in subsection (a) to be 
                promoted to senior-level positions in the 
                Administration, including requirements with respect 
                to--
                            ``(i) professional training and continuing 
                        education; and
                            ``(ii) a certain number and types of 
                        rotational assignments under subparagraph (D), 
                        as determined by the Administrator.
    ``(c) Application to Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program.--The 
Director of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program established pursuant 
to section 4101 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2511) and 
section 3216 of this Act may, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
the Navy, apply the alternative personnel system under subsection (a) 
to--
            ``(1) all employees of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program 
        in the competitive service (as defined in section 2102 of title 
        5, United States Code); and
            ``(2) all employees of the Department of Navy who are 
        assigned to the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program and are in the 
        excepted service (as defined in section 2103 of title 5, United 
        States Code) (other than such employees in statutory excepted 
        service systems).''.
    (b) Briefing.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear 
        Security shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
        congressional committees on the implementation of section 3248 
        of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, as added 
        by subsection (a).
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the congressional defense committees;
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                of the House of Representatives; and
                    (C) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 3116 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Public Law 115-91; 131 Stat. 
1888; 50 U.S.C. 2441 note prec) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (a) and (d); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (a) and (b), respectively.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 3247 the following new item:

``Sec. 3248. Alternative personnel system.''.

SEC. 3122. INCLUSION OF CERTAIN EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF ENERGY IN DEFINITION OF PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER FOR 
              PURPOSES OF CERTAIN DEATH BENEFITS.

    Section 1204(9) of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10284(9)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E)(ii), by striking the period at the 
        end and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) an employee or contractor of the Department 
                of Energy who--
                            ``(i) is--
                                    ``(I) a nuclear materials courier 
                                (as defined in section 8331(27) of 
                                title 5, United States Code); or
                                    ``(II) designated by the Secretary 
                                of Energy as a member of an emergency 
                                response team; and
                            ``(ii) is performing official duties of the 
                        Department, pursuant to a deployment order 
                        issued by the Secretary, to protect the public, 
                        property, or the interests of the United States 
                        by--
                                    ``(I) assessing, locating, 
                                identifying, securing, rendering safe, 
                                or disposing of weapons of mass 
                                destruction (as defined in section 1403 
                                of the Defense Against Weapons of Mass 
                                Destruction Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 
                                2302)); or
                                    ``(II) managing the immediate 
                                consequences of a radiological release 
                                or exposure.''.

SEC. 3123. REIMBURSEMENT FOR LIABILITY INSURANCE FOR NUCLEAR MATERIALS 
              COURIERS.

    Section 636(c)(2) of division A of the Treasury, Postal Service, 
and General Government Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208; 5 
U.S.C. prec. 5941 note) is amended by striking ``or under'' and all 
that follows and inserting the following: ``a special agent under 
section 203 of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 
1986 (22 U.S.C. 4823), or a nuclear materials courier (as defined in 
section 8331(27) of such title 5);''.

SEC. 3124. TRANSPORTATION AND MOVING EXPENSES FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY OF 
              DECEASED NUCLEAR MATERIALS COURIERS.

    Section 5724d(c)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) any nuclear materials courier, as defined in 
                section 8331(27); and''.

SEC. 3125. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN 
              SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL.

    Section 4601(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2701(c)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2021''.

                       Subtitle D--Cybersecurity

SEC. 3131. REPORTING ON PENETRATIONS OF NETWORKS OF CONTRACTORS AND 
              SUBCONTRACTORS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 4511. REPORTING ON PENETRATIONS OF NETWORKS OF CONTRACTORS AND 
              SUBCONTRACTORS.

    ``(a) Procedures for Reporting Penetrations.--The Administrator 
shall establish procedures that require each contractor and 
subcontractor to report to the Chief Information Officer when a covered 
network of the contractor or subcontractor that meets the criteria 
established pursuant to subsection (b) is successfully penetrated.
    ``(b) Establishment of Criteria for Covered Networks.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall, in consultation 
        with the officials specified in paragraph (2), establish 
        criteria for covered networks to be subject to the procedures 
        for reporting penetrations under subsection (a).
            ``(2) Officials specified.--The officials specified in this 
        paragraph are the following officials of the Administration:
                    ``(A) The Deputy Administrator for Defense 
                Programs.
                    ``(B) The Associate Administrator for Acquisition 
                and Project Management.
                    ``(C) The Chief Information Officer.
                    ``(D) Any other official of the Administration the 
                Administrator considers necessary.
    ``(c) Procedure Requirements.--
            ``(1) Rapid reporting.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The procedures established 
                pursuant to subsection (a) shall require each 
                contractor or subcontractor to submit to the Chief 
                Information Officer a report on each successful 
                penetration of a covered network of the contractor or 
                subcontractor that meets the criteria established 
                pursuant to subsection (b) not later than 60 days after 
                the discovery of the successful penetration.
                    ``(B) Elements.--Subject to subparagraph (C), each 
                report required by subparagraph (A) with respect to a 
                successful penetration of a covered network of a 
                contractor or subcontractor shall include the 
                following:
                            ``(i) A description of the technique or 
                        method used in such penetration.
                            ``(ii) A sample of the malicious software, 
                        if discovered and isolated by the contractor or 
                        subcontractor, involved in such penetration.
                            ``(iii) A summary of information created by 
                        or for the Administration in connection with 
                        any program of the Administration that has been 
                        potentially compromised as a result of such 
                        penetration.
                    ``(C) Avoidance of delays in reporting.--If a 
                contractor or subcontractor is not able to obtain all 
                of the information required by subparagraph (B) to be 
                included in a report required by subparagraph (A) by 
                the date that is 60 days after the discovery of a 
                successful penetration of a covered network of the 
                contractor or subcontractor, the contractor or 
                subcontractor shall--
                            ``(i) include in the report all information 
                        available as of that date; and
                            ``(ii) provide to the Chief Information 
                        Officer the additional information required by 
                        subparagraph (B) as the information becomes 
                        available.
            ``(2) Access to equipment and information by administration 
        personnel.--Concurrent with the establishment of the procedures 
        pursuant to subsection (a), the Administrator shall establish 
        procedures to be used if information owned by the 
        Administration was in use during or at risk as a result of the 
        successful penetration of a covered network--
                    ``(A) in order to--
                            ``(i) in the case of a penetration of a 
                        covered network of a management and operating 
                        contractor, enhance the access of personnel of 
                        the Administration to Government-owned 
                        equipment and information; and
                            ``(ii) in the case of a penetration of a 
                        covered network of a contractor or 
                        subcontractor that is not a management and 
                        operating contractor, facilitate the access of 
                        personnel of the Administration to the 
                        equipment and information of the contractor or 
                        subcontractor; and
                    ``(B) which shall--
                            ``(i) include mechanisms for personnel of 
                        the Administration to, upon request, obtain 
                        access to equipment or information of a 
                        contractor or subcontractor necessary to 
                        conduct forensic analysis in addition to any 
                        analysis conducted by the contractor or 
                        subcontractor;
                            ``(ii) provide that a contractor or 
                        subcontractor is only required to provide 
                        access to equipment or information as described 
                        in clause (i) to determine whether information 
                        created by or for the Administration in 
                        connection with any program of the 
                        Administration was successfully exfiltrated 
                        from a network of the contractor or 
                        subcontractor and, if so, what information was 
                        exfiltrated; and
                            ``(iii) provide for the reasonable 
                        protection of trade secrets, commercial or 
                        financial information, and information that can 
                        be used to identify a specific person.
            ``(3) Dissemination of information.--The procedures 
        established pursuant to subsection (a) shall allow for limiting 
        the dissemination of information obtained or derived through 
        such procedures so that such information may be disseminated 
        only to entities--
                    ``(A) with missions that may be affected by such 
                information;
                    ``(B) that may be called upon to assist in the 
                diagnosis, detection, or mitigation of cyber incidents;
                    ``(C) that conduct counterintelligence or law 
                enforcement investigations; or
                    ``(D) for national security purposes, including 
                cyber situational awareness and defense purposes.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Chief information officer.--The term `Chief 
        Information Officer' means the Associate Administrator for 
        Information Management and Chief Information Officer of the 
        Administration.
            ``(2) Contractor.--The term `contractor' means a private 
        entity that has entered into a contract or contractual action 
        of any kind with the Administration to furnish supplies, 
        equipment, materials, or services of any kind.
            ``(3) Covered network.--The term `covered network' includes 
        any network or information system that accesses, receives, or 
        stores--
                    ``(A) classified information; or
                    ``(B) sensitive unclassified information germane to 
                any program of the Administration, as determined by the 
                Administrator.
            ``(4) Subcontractor.--The term `subcontractor' means a 
        private entity that has entered into a contract or contractual 
        action with a contractor or another subcontractor to furnish 
        supplies, equipment, materials, or services of any kind in 
        connection with another contract in support of any program of 
        the Administration.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4510 the following new item:

``Sec. 4511. Reporting on penetrations of networks of contractors and 
                            subcontractors.''.

SEC. 3132. CLARIFICATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR CYBERSECURITY OF 
              NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION FACILITIES.

    (a) Establishment of Chief Information Officer.--Subtitle B of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2421 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 3237. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER.

    ``There is within the Administration a Chief Information Officer, 
who shall be--
            ``(1) appointed by the Administrator; and
            ``(2) responsible for the development and implementation of 
        cybersecurity for all facilities of the Administration.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3232(b)(3) of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2422(b)(3)) is amended 
by striking ``and cyber''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 3236 the following new item:

``Sec. 3237. Chief Information Officer.''.

               Subtitle E--Defense Environmental Cleanup

SEC. 3141. PUBLIC STATEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES FOR FACILITIES 
              UNDERGOING DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLIV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2581 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 4410. PUBLIC STATEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES.

    ``Each year, at the same time that the Department of Energy submits 
its annual financial report under section 3516 of title 31, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Energy shall make available to the public 
a statement of environmental liabilities, as calculated for the most 
recent audited financial statement of the Department under section 3515 
of that title, for each defense nuclear facility at which defense 
environmental cleanup activities are occurring.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4409 the following new item:

``Sec. 4410. Public statement of environmental liabilities.''.

SEC. 3142. INCLUSION OF MISSED MILESTONES IN FUTURE-YEARS DEFENSE 
              ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PLAN.

    Section 4402A(b)(3) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2582A(b)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) For any milestone that has been missed, 
                renegotiated, or postponed, a statement of the current 
                milestone, the original milestone, and any interim 
                milestones.''.

SEC. 3143. CLASSIFICATION OF DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP AS CAPITAL 
              ASSET PROJECTS OR OPERATIONS ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary of Energy for 
Environmental Management, in consultation with other appropriate 
officials of the Department of Energy, shall establish requirements for 
the classification of defense environmental cleanup projects as capital 
asset projects or operations activities.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Assistant 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report--
            (1) setting forth the requirements established under 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) assessing whether any ongoing defense environmental 
        cleanup projects should be reclassified based on those 
        requirements.

SEC. 3144. CONTINUED ANALYSIS OF APPROACHES FOR SUPPLEMENTAL TREATMENT 
              OF LOW-ACTIVITY WASTE AT HANFORD NUCLEAR RESERVATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall enter into an 
arrangement with a federally funded research and development center to 
conduct a follow-on analysis to the analysis required by section 3134 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (Public 
Law 114-328; 130 Stat. 2769) with respect to approaches for treating 
the portion of low-activity waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, 
Richland, Washington, intended for supplemental treatment.
    (b) Comparison of Alternatives to Aid Decisionmaking.--The analysis 
required by subsection (a) shall be designed, to the greatest extent 
possible, to provide decisionmakers with the ability to make a direct 
comparison between approaches for the supplemental treatment of low-
activity waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation based on criteria 
that are relevant to decisionmaking and most clearly differentiate 
between approaches.
    (c) Elements.--The analysis required by subsection (a) shall 
include an assessment of the following:
            (1) The most effective potential technology for 
        supplemental treatment of low-activity waste that will produce 
        an effective waste form, including an assessment of the 
        following:
                    (A) The maturity and complexity of the technology.
                    (B) The extent of previous use of the technology.
                    (C) The life cycle costs and duration of use of the 
                technology.
                    (D) The effectiveness of the technology with 
                respect to immobilization.
                    (E) The performance of the technology expected 
                under permanent disposal.
            (2) The differences among approaches for the supplemental 
        treatment of low-activity waste considered as of the date of 
        the analysis.
            (3) The compliance of such approaches with the technical 
        standards described in section 3134(b)(2)(D) of section 3134 of 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
            (4) The differences among potential disposal sites for the 
        waste form produced through such treatment, including 
        mitigation of radionuclides, including technetium-99, selenium-
        79, and iodine-129, on a system level.
            (5) Potential modifications to the design of facilities to 
        enhance performance with respect to disposal of the waste form 
        to account for the following:
                    (A) Regulatory compliance.
                    (B) Public acceptance.
                    (C) Cost.
                    (D) Safety.
                    (E) The expected radiation dose to maximally 
                exposed individuals over time.
                    (F) Differences among disposal environments.
            (6) Approximately how much and what type of pretreatment is 
        needed to meet regulatory requirements regarding long-lived 
        radionuclides and hazardous chemicals to reduce disposal costs 
        for radionuclides described in paragraph (4).
            (7) Whether the radionuclides can be left in the waste form 
        or economically removed and bounded at a system level by the 
        performance assessment of a potential disposal site and, if the 
        radionuclides cannot be left in the waste form, how to account 
        for the secondary waste stream.
            (8) Other relevant factors relating to the technology 
        described in paragraph (1), including the following:
                    (A) The costs and risks in delays with respect to 
                tank performance over time.
                    (B) Consideration of experience with treatment 
                methods at other sites and commercial facilities.
                    (C) Outcomes of the test bed initiative of the 
                Office of Environmental Management at the Hanford 
                Nuclear Reservation.
    (d) Review, Consultation, Submission, and Limitations.--The 
provision of subsections (c) through (f) of section 3134 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 shall apply 
with respect to the analysis required by subsection (a) to the same 
extent and in the same manner that such provisions applied with respect 
to the analysis required by subsection (a) of such section 3134, except 
that subsection (e) of such section shall be applied and administered 
by substituting ``the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021'' for ``the date of the 
enactment of this Act'' each place it appears.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 3151. MODIFICATIONS TO ENHANCED PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY TO MANAGE 
              SUPPLY CHAIN RISK.

    Section 4806 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2786) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsections (a) and (c), by inserting ``or special 
        exclusion action'' after ``covered procurement action'' each 
        place it appears;
            (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections 
        (f) and (g), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
        subsection (e):
    ``(e) Delegation of Authority.--The Secretary may delegate the 
authority under this section to--
            ``(1) in the case of the Administration, the Administrator; 
        and
            ``(2) in the case of any other component of the Department 
        of Energy, the Senior Procurement Executive of the 
        Department.''; and
            (4) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (7); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following 
                new paragraph (6):
            ``(6) Special exclusion action.--The term `special 
        exclusion action' means an action to prohibit, for a period not 
        to exceed two years, the award of any contracts or subcontracts 
        by the Administration or any other component of the Department 
        of Energy related to any covered system to a source the 
        Secretary determines to represent a supply chain risk.''.

SEC. 3152. PROHIBITION ON USE OF LABORATORY- OR PRODUCTION FACILITY-
              DIRECTED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FUNDS FOR GENERAL AND 
              ADMINISTRATIVE OVERHEAD COSTS.

    Section 4811 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2791), as 
amended by section 3152, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Overhead.--Funds provided to 
a national security laboratory or nuclear weapons production facility 
for laboratory- or production facility-directed research and 
development may not be used to cover the costs of general and 
administrative overhead for the laboratory or facility.''.

SEC. 3153. MONITORING OF INDUSTRIAL BASE FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS 
              COMPONENTS, SUBSYSTEMS, AND MATERIALS.

    (a) Designation of Official.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security shall designate a senior official 
within the National Nuclear Security Administration to be responsible 
for monitoring the industrial base that supports the nuclear weapons 
components, subsystems, and materials of the Administration, 
including--
            (1) the consistent monitoring of the current status of the 
        industrial base;
            (2) tracking of industrial base issues over time; and
            (3) proactively identifying gaps or risks in specific areas 
        relating to the industrial base.
    (b) Provision of Resources.--The Administrator shall ensure that 
the official designated under subsection (a) is provided with resources 
sufficient to conduct the monitoring required by that subsection.
    (c) Consultations.--The Administrator, acting through the official 
designated under subsection (a), shall, to the extent practicable and 
beneficial, in conducting the monitoring required by that subsection, 
consult with--
            (1) officials of the Department of Defense who are members 
        of the Nuclear Weapons Council established under section 179 of 
        title 10, United States Code;
            (2) officials of the Department of Defense responsible for 
        the defense industrial base; and
            (3) other components of the Department of Energy that rely 
        on similar components, subsystems, or materials.
    (d) Briefings.--
            (1) Initial briefing.--Not later than April 1, 2021, the 
        Administrator shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on 
        the designation of the official required by subsection (a), 
        including on--
                    (A) the responsibilities assigned to that official; 
                and
                    (B) the plan for providing that official with 
                resources sufficient to conduct the monitoring required 
                by subsection (a).
            (2) Subsequent briefings.--Not later than April 1, 2022, 
        and annually thereafter through 2024, the Administrator shall 
        provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a briefing on activities carried 
        out under this section that includes an assessment of the 
        progress made by the official designated under subsection (a) 
        in conducting the monitoring required by that subsection.

SEC. 3154. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ADVANCED NAVAL NUCLEAR FUEL 
              SYSTEM BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.

    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for the National Nuclear Security Administration for fiscal year 2021 
may be obligated or expended to conduct research and development of an 
advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium until 
the following certifications are submitted to the congressional defense 
committees:
            (1) A joint certification of the Secretary of Energy and 
        the Secretary of Defense that the determination made by the 
        Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Navy pursuant to 
        section 3118(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1196) and 
        submitted to the congressional defense committees on March 25, 
        2018, that the United States should not pursue such research 
        and development, no longer reflects the policy of the United 
        States.
            (2) A certification of the Secretary of the Navy that an 
        advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched 
        uranium would not reduce vessel capability, increase expense, 
        or reduce operational availability as a result of refueling 
        requirements.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on activities 
conducted using amounts made available for fiscal year 2020 for 
nonproliferation fuels development, including a description of progress 
made toward technological or nonproliferation goals.

SEC. 3155. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR W93 NUCLEAR WARHEAD 
              PROGRAM.

    In accordance with section 4209(a)(1)(B) of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2529(a)(1)(B)), funds are hereby authorized to 
be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2021 for 
the W93 nuclear warhead program as specified in the funding table in 
section 4701.

SEC. 3156. REVIEW OF FUTURE OF COMPUTING BEYOND EXASCALE AT THE 
              NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Energy, shall enter into an 
agreement with the National Academy of Science to review the future of 
computing beyond exascale computing to meet national security needs at 
the National Nuclear Security Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall address 
the following:
            (1) Future computing needs of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration that exascale computing will not accomplish 
        during the 20 years after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
            (2) Computing architectures that potentially can meet those 
        needs, including--
                    (A) classical computing architectures employed as 
                of such date of enactment;
                    (B) quantum computing architectures and other novel 
                computing architectures;
                    (C) hybrid combinations of classical and quantum 
                computing architectures; and
                    (D) other architectures as necessary.
            (3) The development of software for the computing 
        architectures described in paragraph (2).
            (4) The maturity of the computing architectures described 
        in paragraph (2) and the software described in paragraph (3), 
        with key obstacles that must be overcome for the employment of 
        such architectures and software.
            (5) The secure industrial base that exists as of the date 
        of the enactment of this Act to meet the unique needs of 
        computing at the National Nuclear Security Administration, 
        including needs with respect to--
                    (A) personnel;
                    (B) microelectronics; and
                    (C) other appropriate matters.
    (c) Information and Clearances.--The Administrator shall ensure 
that personnel of the National Academy of Sciences overseeing the 
implementation of the agreement required by subsection (a) or 
conducting the review required by that subsection receive, in a timely 
manner, access to information and necessary security clearances to 
enable the conduct of the review.
    (d) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the National Academy of Sciences 
        shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
        on the findings of the review required by subsection (a).
            (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (e) Exascale Computing Defined.--In this section, the term 
``exascale computing'' means computing through the use of a computing 
machine that performs near or above 10 to the 18th power floating point 
operations per second.

SEC. 3157. APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR INDEPENDENT COST ESTIMATES 
              AND REVIEWS TO NEW NUCLEAR WEAPON SYSTEMS.

    Section 4217(b)(1) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2537(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``, and each new 
                nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 2A'' 
                after ``phase 6.2A'';
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``, and each new 
                nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 3'' 
                after ``phase 6.3''; and
                    (C) in clause (iii)--
                            (i) by inserting ``, and each new nuclear 
                        weapon system at the completion of phase 4'' 
                        after ``phase 6.4''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or 5, as applicable'' 
                        after ``phase 6.5''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, and each new 
        nuclear weapon system at the completion of phase 2'' after 
        ``phase 6.2''.

SEC. 3158. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF LIMITATIONS ON IMPORTATION OF 
              URANIUM FROM RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 3112A of the USEC Privatization Act (42 
U.S.C. 2297h-10a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph 
                (8); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) Suspension agreement.--The term `Suspension 
        Agreement' has the meaning given that term in section 
        3102(13).'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``United States to support'' and 
                inserting the following: ``United States--
            ``(1) to support'';
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) that reliance on uranium imports raises significant 
        national security concerns;
            ``(3) to revive and strengthen the supply chain for nuclear 
        fuel produced and used in the United States; and
            ``(4) to expand production of nuclear fuel in the United 
        States.''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A), by striking ``After'' and inserting 
                        ``Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
                        after'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) in clause (vi), by striking ``; 
                                and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                                    (II) in clause (vii), by striking 
                                the period at the end and inserting a 
                                semicolon; and
                                    (III) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                            ``(viii) in calendar year 2021, 422,038 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(ix) in calendar year 2022, 415,573 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(x) in calendar year 2023, 409,445 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xi) in calendar year 2024, 404,469 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xii) in calendar year 2025, 399,241 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xiii) in calendar year 2026, 393,985 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xiv) in calendar year 2027, 389,656 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xv) in calendar year 2028, 389,656 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xvi) in calendar year 2029, 384,905 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xvii) in calendar year 2030, 375,882 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xviii) in calendar year 2031, 372,171 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xix) in calendar year 2032, 364,694 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xx) in calendar year 2033, 359,353 
                        kilograms;
                            ``(xxi) in calendar year 2034, 337,344 
                        kilograms; and
                            ``(xxii) in calendar year 2035, 333,296 
                        kilograms.'';
                            (iii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (D); and
                            (iv) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) Harmonization with suspension agreement.--
                            ``(i) In general.--If, not later than 
                        December 31, 2020, the Department of Commerce 
                        and the Russian Federation finalize an 
                        amendment to the Suspension Agreement to extend 
                        the Agreement, the import limitations under 
                        subparagraph (A) for a calendar year shall be 
                        superceded by any export limitations, including 
                        the associated calculation parameters, agreed 
                        to by the Department of Commerce as part of 
                        that amendment.
                            ``(ii) Termination of suspension 
                        agreement.--If the Suspension Agreement 
                        terminates or expires, the import limitations 
                        specified in subparagraph (A) shall--
                                    ``(I) take effect on the date on 
                                which the Suspension Agreement 
                                terminates or expires; and
                                    ``(II) apply in addition to any 
                                antidumping duties imposed pursuant to 
                                title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 
                                U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) with respect to 
                                low-enriched uranium produced in the 
                                Russian Federation.
                    ``(C) Separative work units requirement.--Not more 
                than 25 percent of the quantity of low-enriched uranium 
                produced in the Russian Federation and imported under 
                subparagraph (A) in any year may be imported under 
                contracts other than contracts exclusively for 
                separative work units.'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``United States--
                '' and all that follows and inserting the following: 
                ``United States for processing and to be certified for 
                reexportation and not for consumption in the United 
                States.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``reference data'' 
                                and all that follows through ``2019'' 
                                and inserting the following: ``lower 
                                scenario data in the document of the 
                                World Nuclear Association entitled 
                                `Nuclear Fuel Report: Global Scenarios 
                                for Demand and Supply Availability 
                                2019-2040'. In each of calendar years 
                                2023, 2027, and 2031''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``report or a 
                                subsequent report'' and inserting 
                                ``document'';
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and 
                        (C) as subpagraphs (C) and (D), respectively;
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) Report required.--Not later than one year 
                after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, and every 3 
                years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
                Congress a report that includes--
                            ``(i) a recommendation on the use of all 
                        publicly available data to ensure accurate 
                        forecasting by scenario data to comport to 
                        actual demand for low-enriched uranium for 
                        nuclear reactors in the United States; and
                            ``(ii) an identification of the steps to be 
                        taken to adjust the import limitations 
                        described in paragraph (2)(A) based on the most 
                        accurate scenario data.''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated 
                        by clause (ii), by striking ``subparagraph 
                        (B)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (D)'';
                    (D) in paragraph (6), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``the adjustment under 
                paragraph (5)(A)'' and inserting ``any adjustment under 
                paragraph (2)(B) or (5)(A)'';
                    (E) in paragraph (7)(A), by striking ``0.3 
                percent'' and inserting ``0.22 percent'';
                    (F) in paragraph (9), by striking ``2020'' and 
                inserting ``2035'';
                    (G) by striking ``(2)(B)'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``(2)(D)''; and
                    (H) in paragraph (12)(B), by inserting ``or the 
                Suspension Agreement'' after ``the Russian HEU 
                Agreement''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) apply 
with respect to uranium imported from the Russian Federation on or 
after January 1, 2021.

SEC. 3159. INTEGRATION OF STOCKPILE STEWARDSHIP AND NONPROLIFERATION 
              MISSIONS.

    (a) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that, in 
recognition of the close relationships between the nuclear weapons 
expertise and infrastructure of the national security laboratories (as 
defined in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2501)), those laboratories should continue to apply their capabilities 
to assessing, understanding, and countering current and emerging 
nuclear threats, including the nuclear capabilities of adversaries of 
the United States.
    (b) Integration.--The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that the 
capabilities of the stockpile stewardship program under section 4201 of 
the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521) are available to assess 
proliferation challenges, nuclear capabilities of adversaries of the 
United States, and related safeguards.

SEC. 3160. TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND INTEGRATION PROGRAM.

    The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish a technology 
development and integration program to improve the safety and security 
of the nuclear weapons stockpile, and to prevent proliferation, through 
research and development, engineering, and integration of technologies 
applicable to multiple weapons systems in the stockpile.

SEC. 3161. ADVANCED MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.

    The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish an advanced 
manufacturing development program to focus on the development, 
demonstration, and deployment of next-generation processes and 
manufacturing tools to ensure that the nuclear weapons stockpile is 
safe and secure.

SEC. 3162. MATERIALS SCIENCE PROGRAM.

    The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish a materials 
science program to develop new materials to replace materials that are 
no longer available for weapons sustainment.

SEC. 3163. MODIFICATIONS TO INERTIAL CONFINEMENT FUSION IGNITION AND 
              HIGH YIELD PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Inertial Confinement Fusion Ignition and High 
Yield Program of the National Nuclear Security Administration (in this 
section referred to as the ``Program'') shall provide the scientific 
understanding and experimental capabilities required to validate the 
safety and effectiveness of the nuclear weapons stockpile.
    (b) Recommendations Relating to High Energy Density Physics.--
            (1) Establishment of working group.--The Administrator for 
        Nuclear Security shall establish a working group to identify 
        and implement any recommendations issued by the National 
        Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine as required by 
        section 3137 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92).
            (2) Report required.--Not later than March 31, 2021, the 
        Administrator shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees a report on the timelines for completing 
        implementation of the recommendations described in paragraph 
        (1).

SEC. 3164. EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM FOR LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 4223. EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM FOR LIFE EXTENSION 
              PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator shall establish an earned 
value management program to establish earned value management 
standards--
            ``(1) to ensure specific benchmarks are set for technology 
        readiness for life extension programs; and
            ``(2) to ensure that appropriate risk mitigation measures 
        are taken to meet the cost and schedule requirements of such 
        programs.
    ``(b) Review of Contractor Earned Value Management Systems.--The 
Administrator shall enter into an arrangement with an independent 
entity under which that entity shall review and determine whether the 
earned value management standards of contractors of the Administration 
for life extension programs are consistent with the standards 
established under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Reconciliation of Cost Estimates.--The Administrator shall 
ensure that key decisions of the Administration concerning project 
milestones in life extension programs are based on a reconciliation of 
cost estimates of the Administration with any independent cost 
estimates conducted by the Director of Cost Estimating and Program 
Evaluation.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 4222 the following new item:

``Sec. 4223. Earned value management program for life extension 
                            programs.''.

SEC. 3165. USE OF HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING CAPABILITIES FOR COVID-19 
              RESEARCH.

    The Secretary of Energy shall make the unclassified high 
performance computing capabilities of the Department of Energy 
available for research relating to the coronavirus disease 2019 
(commonly known as ``COVID-19'') so long as and to the extent that 
doing so does not negatively affect the stockpile stewardship mission 
of the National Nuclear Security Administration.

SEC. 3166. AVAILABILITY OF STOCKPILE RESPONSIVENESS FUNDS FOR PROJECTS 
              TO REDUCE TIME NECESSARY TO EXECUTE A NUCLEAR TEST.

    From amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 3101 and 
available, as specified in the funding table in section 4701, for the 
Stockpile Responsiveness Program under section 4220 of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2538b), not less than $10,000,000 shall 
be made available to carry out projects related to reducing the time 
required to execute a nuclear test if necessary.

SEC. 3167. SENSE OF THE SENATE ON EXTENSION OF LIMITATIONS ON 
              IMPORTATION OF URANIUM FROM RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) a secure nuclear fuel supply chain is essential to the 
        economic and national security of the United States;
            (2) the United States should--
                    (A) expeditiously complete negotiation of an 
                extension of the Agreement Suspending the Antidumping 
                Investigation on Uranium from the Russian Federation 
                (commonly referred to as the ``Russian Suspension 
                Agreement''); or
                    (B) if an agreement to extend the Russian 
                Suspension Agreement cannot be reached, complete the 
                antidumping investigation under title VII of the Tariff 
                Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) with respect to 
                imports of uranium from the Russian Federation--
                            (i) to avoid unfair trade in uranium and 
                        maintain a nuclear fuel supply chain in the 
                        United States, consistent with the national 
                        security and nonproliferation goals of the 
                        United States; and
                            (ii) to protect the United States nuclear 
                        fuel supply chain from the continued 
                        manipulation of the global and United States 
                        uranium markets by the Russian Federation and 
                        Russian-influenced competitors;
            (3) a renegotiated, long-term extension of the Russian 
        Suspension Agreement can prevent adversaries of the United 
        States from monopolizing the nuclear fuel supply chain;
            (4) as was done in 2008, upon completion of a new 
        negotiated long-term extension of the Russian Suspension 
        Agreement, Congress should enact legislation to codify the 
        terms of extension into law to ensure long-term stability for 
        the domestic nuclear fuel supply chain; and
            (5) if the negotiations to extend the Russian Suspension 
        Agreement prove unsuccessful, Congress should be prepared to 
        enact legislation to prevent the manipulation by the Russian 
        Federation of global uranium markets and potential domination 
        by the Russian Federation of the United States uranium market.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021, 
$28,836,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).

SEC. 3202. NONPUBLIC COLLABORATIVE DISCUSSIONS BY DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
              FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.

    Section 313 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286b) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Nonpublic Collaborative Discussions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 552b of title 5, 
        United States Code, a quorum of the members of the Board may 
        hold a meeting that is not open to public observation to 
        discuss official business of the Board if--
                    ``(A) no formal or informal vote or other official 
                action is taken at the meeting;
                    ``(B) each individual present at the meeting is a 
                member or an employee of the Board;
                    ``(C) at least one member of the Board from each 
                political party is present at the meeting, unless all 
                members of the Board are of the same political party at 
                the time of the meeting; and
                    ``(D) the general counsel of the Board, or a 
                designee of the general counsel, is present at the 
                meeting.
            ``(2) Disclosure of nonpublic collaborative discussions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided by 
                subparagraph (B), not later than two business days 
                after the conclusion of a meeting described in 
                paragraph (1), the Board shall make available to the 
                public, in a place easily accessible to the public--
                            ``(i) a list of the individuals present at 
                        the meeting; and
                            ``(ii) a summary of the matters, including 
                        key issues, discussed at the meeting, except 
                        for any matter the Board properly determines 
                        may be withheld from the public under section 
                        552b(c) of title 5, United States Code.
                    ``(B) Information about matters withheld from 
                public.--If the Board properly determines under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) that a matter may be withheld from 
                the public under section 552b(c) of title 5, United 
                States Code, the Board shall include in the summary 
                required by that subparagraph as much general 
                information as possible with respect to the matter.
            ``(3) Rules of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
        may be construed--
                    ``(A) to limit the applicability of section 552b of 
                title 5, United States Code, with respect to--
                            ``(i) a meeting of the members of the Board 
                        other than a meeting described in paragraph 
                        (1); or
                            ``(ii) any information that is proposed to 
                        be withheld from the public under paragraph 
                        (2)(A)(ii); or
                    ``(B) to authorize the Board to withhold from any 
                individual any record that is accessible to that 
                individual under section 552a of title 5, United States 
                Code.''.

SEC. 3203. IMPROVEMENTS TO OPERATIONS OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES 
              SAFETY BOARD.

    (a) Mission of Board.--Section 312(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286a(a)) is amended by striking ``employees and 
contractors at such facilities'' and inserting ``workers at such 
facilities conducting activities covered by part 830 of title 10, Code 
of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)''.
    (b) Cooperation.--Section 314(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 
(42 U.S.C. 2286c(a)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Except''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `unfettered 
access', with respect to a facility or personnel of or information 
related to a facility, means access equivalent to the access to the 
facility, personnel, or information provided to a regular employee of 
the facility, after proper identification and compliance with 
applicable access control measures for security, radiological 
protection, and personal safety.''.

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 3501. MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 109. Maritime Administration
    ``(a) Organization and Mission.--The Maritime Administration is an 
administration in the Department of Transportation. The mission of the 
Maritime Administration is to foster, promote, and develop the merchant 
maritime industry of the United States.
    ``(b) Maritime Administrator.--The head of the Maritime 
Administration is the Maritime Administrator, who is appointed by the 
President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The 
Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary of Transportation 
and carry out the duties prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Deputy Maritime Administrator.--The Maritime Administration 
shall have a Deputy Maritime Administrator, who is appointed in the 
competitive service by the Secretary, after consultation with the 
Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall carry out the duties 
prescribed by the Administrator. The Deputy Administrator shall be 
Acting Administrator during the absence or disability of the 
Administrator and, unless the Secretary designates another individual, 
during a vacancy in the office of Administrator.
    ``(d) Duties and Powers Vested in Secretary.--All duties and powers 
of the Maritime Administration are vested in the Secretary.
    ``(e) Regional Offices.--The Maritime Administration shall have 
regional offices for the Atlantic, Gulf, Great Lakes, and Pacific port 
ranges, and may have other regional offices as necessary. The Secretary 
shall appoint a qualified individual as Director of each regional 
office. The Secretary shall carry out appropriate activities and 
programs of the Maritime Administration through the regional offices.
    ``(f) Interagency and Industry Relations.--The Secretary shall 
establish and maintain liaison with other agencies, and with 
representative trade organizations throughout the United States, 
concerned with the transportation of commodities by water in the export 
and import foreign commerce of the United States, for the purpose of 
securing preference to vessels of the United States for the 
transportation of those commodities.
    ``(g) Detailing Officers From Armed Forces.--To assist the 
Secretary in carrying out duties and powers relating to the Maritime 
Administration, not more than five officers of the Armed Forces may be 
detailed to the Secretary at any one time, in addition to details 
authorized by any other law. During the period of a detail, the 
Secretary shall pay the officer an amount that, when added to the 
officer's pay and allowances as an officer in the Armed Forces, makes 
the officer's total pay and allowances equal to the amount that would 
be paid to an individual performing work the Secretary considers to be 
of similar importance, difficulty, and responsibility as that performed 
by the officer during the detail.
    ``(h) Contracts, Cooperative Agreements, and Audits.--
            ``(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.--In the same 
        manner that a private corporation may make a contract within 
        the scope of its authority under its charter, the Secretary may 
        make contracts and cooperative agreements for the United States 
        Government and disburse amounts to--
                    ``(A) carry out the Secretary's duties and powers 
                under this section, subtitle V of title 46, and all 
                other Maritime Administration programs; and
                    ``(B) protect, preserve, and improve collateral 
                held by the Secretary to secure indebtedness.
            ``(2) Audits.--The financial transactions of the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) shall be audited by the Comptroller 
        General. The Comptroller General shall allow credit for an 
        expenditure shown to be necessary because of the nature of the 
        business activities authorized by this section or subtitle V of 
        title 46. At least once a year, the Comptroller General shall 
        report to Congress any departure by the Secretary from this 
        section or subtitle V of title 46.
    ``(i) Grant Administrative Expenses.--Except as otherwise provided 
by law, the administrative and related expenses for the administration 
of any grant programs by the Maritime Administrator may not exceed 3 
percent.
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such 
        amounts as may be necessary to carry out the duties and powers 
        of the Secretary relating to the Maritime Administration.
            ``(2) Limitations.--Only those amounts specifically 
        authorized by law may be appropriated for the use of the 
        Maritime Administration for--
                    ``(A) acquisition, construction, or reconstruction 
                of vessels;
                    ``(B) construction-differential subsidies incident 
                to the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning 
                of vessels;
                    ``(C) costs of national defense features;
                    ``(D) payments of obligations incurred for 
                operating-differential subsidies;
                    ``(E) expenses necessary for research and 
                development activities, including reimbursement of the 
                Vessel Operations Revolving Fund for losses resulting 
                from expenses of experimental vessel operations;
                    ``(F) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund;
                    ``(G) National Defense Reserve Fleet expenses;
                    ``(H) expenses necessary to carry out part B of 
                subtitle V of title 46; and
                    ``(I) other operations and training expenses 
                related to the development of waterborne transportation 
                systems, the use of waterborne transportation systems, 
                and general administration.''.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.

    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in 
        accordance with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 
        of title 10, United States Code, or on competitive procedures; 
        and
            (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral Written Communications.--No oral or written communication 
concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in this division 
shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2021         Senate
 Line                 Item                    Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        FIXED WING
    2   MQ-1 UAV........................               0         165,000
            Reverse planned temporary                          [165,000]
            procurement pause...........
    3   FUTURE UAS FAMILY...............           1,100           1,100
    4   RQ-11 (RAVEN)...................          20,851          20,851
        ROTARY
    7   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN...         792,027         792,027
    8   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIA REMAN AP         169,460         169,460
   11   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP)...         742,998         742,998
   12   UH-60 BLACKHAWK M MODEL (MYP) AP          87,427          87,427
   13   UH-60 BLACK HAWK L AND V MODELS.         172,797         172,797
   14   CH-47 HELICOPTER................         160,750         160,750
   15   CH-47 HELICOPTER AP.............          18,372          18,372
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   18   UNIVERSAL GROUND CONTROL                   7,509           7,509
         EQUIPMENT (UAS)................
   19   GRAY EAGLE MODS2................          16,280          16,280
   20   MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP)....          35,864          35,864
   21   AH-64 MODS......................         118,316         118,316
   22   CH-47 CARGO HELICOPTER MODS               15,548          35,548
         (MYP)..........................
            IVCS........................                        [20,000]
   23   GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP)............           2,947           2,947
   24   ARL SEMA MODS (MIP).............           9,598           9,598
   25   EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP)..........           2,452           2,452
   26   UTILITY/CARGO AIRPLANE MODS.....          13,868          13,868
   27   UTILITY HELICOPTER MODS.........          25,842          25,842
   28   NETWORK AND MISSION PLAN........          77,432          77,432
   29   COMMS, NAV SURVEILLANCE.........         101,355         101,355
   31   AVIATION ASSURED PNT............          54,609          54,609
   32   GATM ROLLUP.....................          12,180          12,180
   34   UAS MODS........................           4,204           4,204
        GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
   35   AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT          49,455          49,455
   36   SURVIVABILITY CM................           8,035           8,035
   37   CMWS............................          10,567          10,567
   38   COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES          237,467         237,467
         (CIRCM)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   39   AVIONICS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......           1,789           1,789
   40   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.........          17,584          17,584
   41   AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS......          48,265          48,265
   42   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL.............          26,408          26,408
   44   LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET...........           2,256           2,256
   45   LAUNCHER GUIDED MISSILE: LONGBOW           8,982           8,982
         HELLFIRE XM2...................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY       3,074,594       3,259,594
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
    2   M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT...........         378,654         378,654
    3   MSE MISSILE.....................         603,188         779,773
            Transfer missiles from EDI                         [176,585]
            OCO.........................
    4   PRECISION STRIKE MISSILE (PRSM).          49,941          49,941
    5   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION                 106,261          65,761
         CAPABILITY INC 2-I.............
            Army-identified funding                            [-40,500]
            early to need...............
        AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
    6   HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY............          91,225          91,225
    7   JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND MSLS (JAGM).         213,397         213,397
    8   LONG RANGE PRECISION MUNITION...          45,307          45,307
        ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
    9   JAVELIN (AAWS-M) SYSTEM SUMMARY.         190,325         190,325
   10   TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY............         121,074         121,074
   11   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......         850,157         850,157
   12   MLRS REDUCED RANGE PRACTICE               30,836          30,836
         ROCKETS (RRPR).................
   13   HIGH MOBILITY ARTILLERY ROCKET            41,226          41,226
         SYSTEM (HIMARS.................
        MODIFICATIONS
   16   PATRIOT MODS....................         278,050         278,050
   17   ATACMS MODS.....................         141,690         141,690
   20   AVENGER MODS....................          13,942          13,942
   21   ITAS/TOW MODS...................           5,666           5,666
   22   MLRS MODS.......................         310,419         310,419
   23   HIMARS MODIFICATIONS............           6,081           6,081
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   24   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........           5,090           5,090
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   25   AIR DEFENSE TARGETS.............           8,978           8,978
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY.       3,491,507       3,627,592
 
        PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    2   ARMORED MULTI PURPOSE VEHICLE            192,971         172,971
         (AMPV).........................
            Program decrease............                       [-20,000]
        MODIFICATION OF TRACKED COMBAT
         VEHICLES
    4   STRYKER UPGRADE.................         847,212         847,212
    5   BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)...........         493,109         473,109
            UBIS slip...................                       [-20,000]
    6   M109 FOV MODIFICATIONS..........          26,893          26,893
    7   PALADIN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT            435,825         435,825
         (PIM)..........................
    9   ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD)............           5,074           5,074
   10   ASSAULT BREACHER VEHICLE........          19,500          19,500
   11   M88 FOV MODS....................          18,382          13,382
            Unjustified growth..........                        [-5,000]
   12   JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE............          72,178          61,678
            IOTE and testing delay......                       [-10,500]
   13   M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD)............         392,013         392,013
   14   ABRAMS UPGRADE PROGRAM..........       1,033,253       1,033,253
        WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
   16   MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-               17,864          17,864
         PERSONNEL WEAPON S.............
   18   MORTAR SYSTEMS..................          10,288          10,288
   19   XM320 GRENADE LAUNCHER MODULE              5,969           5,969
         (GLM)..........................
   20   PRECISION SNIPER RIFLE..........          10,137          10,137
   21   COMPACT SEMI-AUTOMATIC SNIPER                999             999
         SYSTEM.........................
   22   CARBINE.........................           7,411           7,411
   23   NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON....          35,822          35,822
   24   COMMON REMOTELY OPERATED WEAPONS          24,534          24,534
         STATION........................
   25   HANDGUN.........................           4,662           4,662
        MOD OF WEAPONS AND OTHER COMBAT
         VEH
   26   MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE GUN MODS..           6,444           6,444
   27   M777 MODS.......................          10,983          10,983
   28   M4 CARBINE MODS.................           4,824           4,824
   31   M240 MEDIUM MACHINE GUN MODS....           6,385           6,385
   32   SNIPER RIFLES MODIFICATIONS.....           1,898           1,898
   33   M119 MODIFICATIONS..............           2,009           2,009
   34   MORTAR MODIFICATION.............           1,689           1,689
   35   MODIFICATIONS LESS THAN $5.0M              2,604           2,604
         (WOCV-WTCV)....................
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   36   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (WOCV-               2,763           2,763
         WTCV)..........................
   37   PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT (WOCV-             3,045           3,045
         WTCV)..........................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY       3,696,740       3,641,240
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
        SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
    1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES..........          68,472          68,472
    2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES..........         109,933         109,933
    3   NEXT GENERATION SQUAD WEAPON              11,988          11,988
         AMMUNITION.....................
    4   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.........             853             853
    5   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.........          58,280          58,280
    6   CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES............          31,708          31,708
    7   CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES............           9,111           9,111
    8   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES............          58,172          58,172
    9   CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES............         114,638         114,638
        MORTAR AMMUNITION
   10   60MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........          31,222          31,222
   11   81MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES..........          42,857          42,857
   12   120MM MORTAR, ALL TYPES.........         107,762         107,762
        TANK AMMUNITION
   13   CARTRIDGES, TANK, 105MM AND              233,444         233,444
         120MM, ALL TYPES...............
        ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
   14   ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES, 75MM &              35,963          35,963
         105MM, ALL TYPES...............
   15   ARTILLERY PROJECTILE, 155MM, ALL         293,692         293,692
         TYPES..........................
   16   PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982..          69,159          69,159
   17   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND         232,913         232,913
         PRIMERS, ALL...................
        MINES
   18   MINES & CLEARING CHARGES, ALL             65,278          65,278
         TYPES..........................
   19   CLOSE TERRAIN SHAPING OBSTACLE..           4,995           4,995
        ROCKETS
   20   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL          69,112          69,112
         TYPES..........................
   21   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES.....         125,915         125,915
        OTHER AMMUNITION
   22   CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES..............           8,891           8,891
   23   DEMOLITION MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.          54,043          54,043
   24   GRENADES, ALL TYPES.............          28,931          28,931
   25   SIGNALS, ALL TYPES..............          27,036          27,036
   26   SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES...........          10,253          10,253
        MISCELLANEOUS
   27   AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL TYPES......           3,476           3,476
   29   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION                10,569          10,569
         (AMMO).........................
   30   AMMUNITION PECULIAR EQUIPMENT...          12,338          12,338
   31   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION          15,908          15,908
         (AMMO).........................
   32   CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES............              99              99
        PRODUCTION BASE SUPPORT
   33   INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...........         592,224         592,224
   34   CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS                   235,112         235,112
         DEMILITARIZATION...............
   35   ARMS INITIATIVE.................           3,369           3,369
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,       2,777,716       2,777,716
         ARMY...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
    1   TACTICAL TRAILERS/DOLLY SETS....          12,986          12,986
    2   SEMITRAILERS, FLATBED:..........          31,443          31,443
    3   SEMITRAILERS, TANKERS...........          17,082          17,082
    4   HI MOB MULTI-PURP WHLD VEH                44,795          44,795
         (HMMWV)........................
    5   GROUND MOBILITY VEHICLES (GMV)..          37,932          37,932
    8   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE             894,414         894,414
         FAMILY OF VEHICL...............
    9   TRUCK, DUMP, 20T (CCE)..........          29,368          29,368
   10   FAMILY OF MEDIUM TACTICAL VEH             95,092          95,092
         (FMTV).........................
   11   FAMILY OF COLD WEATHER ALL-                  999             999
         TERRAIN VEHICLE (C.............
   12   FIRETRUCKS & ASSOCIATED                   27,687          27,687
         FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.............
   14   PLS ESP.........................          21,969          21,969
   15   HVY EXPANDED MOBILE TACTICAL              65,635          65,635
         TRUCK EXT SERV.................
   16   HMMWV RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM..           5,927           5,927
   17   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                  36,497          36,497
         PROTECTION KITS................
   18   MODIFICATION OF IN SVC EQUIP....         114,977         114,977
        NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
   20   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           1,246           1,246
   21   NONTACTICAL VEHICLES, OTHER.....          19,870          19,870
        COMM--JOINT COMMUNICATIONS
   22   SIGNAL MODERNIZATION PROGRAM....         160,469         160,469
   23   TACTICAL NETWORK TECHNOLOGY MOD          360,379         365,379
         IN SVC.........................
            MDTF scalable node equipment                         [5,000]
   24   SITUATION INFORMATION TRANSPORT.          63,396          63,396
   26   JCSE EQUIPMENT (USRDECOM).......           5,170           5,170
        COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   29   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE WIDEBAND              101,498         101,498
         SATCOM SYSTEMS.................
   30   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND            72,450          74,850
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
            AFRICOM force protection                             [1,000]
            upgrades....................
            MDTF support requirements...                         [1,400]
   31   SHF TERM........................          13,173          13,173
   32   ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION          134,928         134,928
         AND TIMING.....................
   33   SMART-T (SPACE).................           8,611           8,611
   34   GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--GBS..........           8,191           8,191
        COMM--C3 SYSTEM
   36   COE TACTICAL SERVER                       94,871          94,871
         INFRASTRUCTURE (TSI)...........
        COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
   37   HANDHELD MANPACK SMALL FORM FIT          550,848         552,348
         (HMS)..........................
            AFRICOM force protection                             [1,500]
            upgrades....................
   38   RADIO TERMINAL SET, MIDS LVT(2).           8,237           8,237
   41   SPIDER FAMILY OF NETWORKED                13,967               0
         MUNITIONS INCR.................
            Program cancelation.........                       [-13,967]
   43   UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE...........          19,579          19,579
   44   COTS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT...          94,156          94,156
   45   FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT             18,313          18,313
         CASUALTY CARE..................
   46   ARMY COMMUNICATIONS &                     51,480          51,480
         ELECTRONICS....................
        COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
   48   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP)          13,146          13,146
   49   DEFENSE MILITARY DECEPTION                 5,624           5,624
         INITIATIVE.....................
        INFORMATION SECURITY
   51   INFORMATION SYSTEM SECURITY                4,596           4,596
         PROGRAM-ISSP...................
   52   COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC)         159,272         159,272
   53   DEFENSIVE CYBER OPERATIONS......          54,753          55,653
            MDTF cyber defense and EW                              [900]
            tools.......................
   54   INSIDER THREAT PROGRAM--UNIT               1,760           1,760
         ACTIVITY MONITO................
   56   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (INFO                    260             260
         SECURITY)......................
        COMM--LONG HAUL COMMUNICATIONS
   57   BASE SUPPORT COMMUNICATIONS.....          29,761          30,761
            AFRICOM UFR force protection                         [1,000]
            upgrades....................
        COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
   58   INFORMATION SYSTEMS.............         147,696         147,696
   59   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT                       4,900           4,900
         MODERNIZATION PROGRAM..........
   60   HOME STATION MISSION COMMAND              15,227          15,227
         CENTERS (HSMCC)................
   61   JOINT INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT              3,177           3,177
         (JIE)..........................
   62   INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE         300,035         300,035
         MOD PROGRAM....................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
         (TIARA)
   65   JTT/CIBS-M (MIP)................           5,304           5,304
   66   TERRESTRIAL LAYER SYSTEMS (TLS)            8,081           8,081
         (MIP)..........................
   68   DCGS-A (MIP)....................         151,886         151,886
   70   TROJAN (MIP)....................          17,593          17,593
   71   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)           28,558          28,558
         (MIP)..........................
   73   BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION                999             999
         DEVICES (MIP)..................
        ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC WARFARE
         (EW)
   75   LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER MORTAR RADAR           5,332           5,332
   76   EW PLANNING & MANAGEMENT TOOLS             7,849           7,849
         (EWPMT)........................
   77   AIR VIGILANCE (AV) (MIP)........           8,160           8,160
   79   MULTI-FUNCTION ELECTRONIC                  8,669           8,669
         WARFARE (MFEW) SYST............
   81   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY                   0          13,400
         COUNTERMEASURES................
            MDTF advanced intel systems                         [13,400]
            remote collection...........
   82   CI MODERNIZATION (MIP)..........             300             300
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
         SURV)
   83   SENTINEL MODS...................          58,884          58,884
   84   NIGHT VISION DEVICES............       1,127,375       1,127,375
   86   SMALL TACTICAL OPTICAL RIFLE              13,954          13,954
         MOUNTED MLRF...................
   88   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY           10,069          14,069
         OF SYSTEMS.....................
            AFRICOM UFR force protection                         [4,000]
            upgrades....................
   89   FAMILY OF WEAPON SIGHTS (FWS)...         133,590         133,590
   91   JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--PLATFORM           243,850         243,850
         (JBC-P)........................
   92   JOINT EFFECTS TARGETING SYSTEM            69,641          69,641
         (JETS).........................
   94   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32.           7,509           7,509
   95   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM......           3,800           3,800
   96   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEMS                7,292           7,292
         MODIFICATIONS..................
   97   COUNTERFIRE RADARS..............          72,421          72,421
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
   98   ARMY COMMAND POST INTEGRATED              49,947          49,947
         INFRASTRUCTURE (...............
   99   FIRE SUPPORT C2 FAMILY..........           9,390           9,390
  100   AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &              47,374          47,374
         CONTROL SYS....................
  101   IAMD BATTLE COMMAND SYSTEM......         201,587         201,587
  102   LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE SUPPORT                4,495           4,495
         (LCSS).........................
  103   NETWORK MANAGEMENT                        18,651          18,651
         INITIALIZATION AND SERVICE.....
  105   GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM-              2,792           2,792
         ARMY (GCSS-A)..................
  106   INTEGRATED PERSONNEL AND PAY               9,071           9,071
         SYSTEM-ARMY (IPP...............
  107   RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEYING              12,117          12,117
         INSTRUMENT SET.................
  108   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE)           3,004           3,004
        ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
  109   ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION.....          14,574          14,574
  110   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.         140,619         140,619
  111   GENERAL FUND ENTERPRISE BUSINESS           4,448           4,448
         SYSTEMS FAM....................
  112   HIGH PERF COMPUTING MOD PGM               68,405          68,405
         (HPCMP)........................
  113   CONTRACT WRITING SYSTEM.........           8,459           8,459
  114   CSS COMMUNICATIONS..............          57,651          57,651
  115   RESERVE COMPONENT AUTOMATION SYS          14,848          14,848
         (RCAS).........................
        ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO VISUAL SYS (A/
         V)
  117   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (SURVEYING             4,995           4,995
         EQUIPMENT).....................
        ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
  119   BCT EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES.......          16,983          20,883
            MDTF advanced intel systems                          [3,900]
            remote collection...........
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           1,582           1,582
        CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
  123   CBRN DEFENSE....................          28,456          42,456
            WMD CST equipment...........                        [14,000]
  124   SMOKE & OBSCURANT FAMILY: SOF             13,995          13,995
         (NON AAO ITEM).................
        BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
  125   TACTICAL BRIDGING...............          10,545          10,545
  126   TACTICAL BRIDGE, FLOAT-RIBBON...          72,074          72,074
  127   BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL SET.........          32,493          32,493
  128   COMMON BRIDGE TRANSPORTER (CBT)           62,978          62,978
         RECAP..........................
        ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
         EQUIPMENT
  129   HANDHELD STANDOFF MINEFIELD                5,570           5,570
         DETECTION SYS-HST..............
  130   GRND STANDOFF MINE DETECTN SYSM            2,497           2,497
         (GSTAMIDS).....................
  132   HUSKY MOUNTED DETECTION SYSTEM           109,069         109,069
         (HMDS).........................
  134   EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS                      36,584          36,584
         RECAPITALIZATION...............
  135   ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE SYSTEMS...         179,544         179,544
  137   RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS...          64,583          64,583
  139   FAMILY OF BOATS AND MOTORS......           5,289           5,289
        COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  140   HEATERS AND ECU'S...............           8,200           8,200
  142   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT                 4,625           4,625
         SYSTEM (PRSS)..................
  143   GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM...........         154,937         154,937
  144   MOBILE SOLDIER POWER............          34,297          34,297
  147   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL              53,021          53,021
         PARACHUTE SYSTEM...............
  148   FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT AND                 23,324          23,324
         CONSTRUCTION SETS..............
  149   ITEMS LESS THAN $5M (ENG SPT)...           8,014           8,014
        PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
  150   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM           78,448          78,448
         & WATER........................
        MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
  151   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL..........          59,485          59,485
        MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
  152   MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT              40,337          40,337
         SYSTEMS........................
  153   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ)           5,386           5,386
        CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
  154   GRADER, ROAD MTZD, HVY, 6X4                5,406           5,406
         (CCE)..........................
  155   SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING...........           4,188           4,188
  156   LOADERS.........................           4,521           4,521
  157   HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR.............           5,186           5,186
  158   TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED...........           4,715           4,715
  159   ALL TERRAIN CRANES..............          70,560          70,560
  162   CONST EQUIP ESP.................           8,925           8,925
        RAIL FLOAT CONTAINERIZATION
         EQUIPMENT
  164   ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP.............          40,910          40,910
  165   MANEUVER SUPPORT VESSEL (MSV)...          76,576          76,576
  166   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (FLOAT/              1,844           1,844
         RAIL)..........................
        GENERATORS
  167   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.          53,433          53,433
  168   TACTICAL ELECTRIC POWER                   22,216          22,216
         RECAPITALIZATION...............
        MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
  169   FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS.............          16,145          16,145
        TRAINING EQUIPMENT
  170   COMBAT TRAINING CENTERS SUPPORT.          90,580          90,580
  171   TRAINING DEVICES, NONSYSTEM.....         161,814         161,814
  172   SYNTHETIC TRAINING ENVIRONMENT            13,063          13,063
         (STE)..........................
  175   GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN SUPPORT OF            1,950           1,950
         ARMY TRAINING..................
        TEST MEASURE AND DIG EQUIPMENT
         (TMD)
  176   CALIBRATION SETS EQUIPMENT......           2,511           2,511
  177   INTEGRATED FAMILY OF TEST                 78,578          78,578
         EQUIPMENT (IFTE)...............
  178   TEST EQUIPMENT MODERNIZATION              14,941          14,941
         (TEMOD)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  180   RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT            8,629           8,629
         EQUIPMENT......................
  181   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)          75,499          87,499
            AFRICOM UFR force protection                        [12,000]
            upgrades....................
  182   BASE LEVEL COMMON EQUIPMENT.....          27,444          27,444
  183   MODIFICATION OF IN-SVC EQUIPMENT          32,485          48,385
         (OPA-3)........................
            Expeditionary Solid Waste                           [15,900]
            Disposal System.............
  187   SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR TEST AND            39,436          39,436
         EVALUATION.....................
        OPA2
  189   INITIAL SPARES--C&E.............           9,950           9,950
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY...       8,625,206       8,685,239
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        COMBAT AIRCRAFT
    1   F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER) HORNET......       1,761,146       1,761,146
    3   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV.........       2,181,780       2,381,780
            Additional aircraft.........                       [200,000]
    4   JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER CV AP......         330,386         330,386
    5   JSF STOVL.......................       1,109,393       1,234,893
            Additional 2 F-35B aircraft.                       [125,500]
    6   JSF STOVL AP....................         303,035         303,035
    7   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT).............         813,324         793,324
            Force Design 2030                                  [-20,000]
            realignment NRE excess......
    8   CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT) AP..........         201,188         191,188
            Force Design 2030                                  [-10,000]
            realignment.................
    9   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)..............         934,793         934,793
   10   V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT) AP...........          39,547          39,547
   11   H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/AH-1Z)......           7,267           7,267
   13   P-8A POSEIDON...................          80,134          80,134
   15   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE................         626,109         626,109
   16   E-2D ADV HAWKEYE AP.............         123,166         123,166
        TRAINER AIRCRAFT
   17   ADVANCED HELICOPTER TRAINING             269,867         269,867
         SYSTEM.........................
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   18   KC-130J.........................         380,984         380,984
   19   KC-130J AP......................          67,022          67,022
   21   MQ-4 TRITON.....................         150,570         100,570
            Excess funding given                               [-50,000]
            procurement pause until FY23
   23   MQ-8 UAV........................          40,375          40,375
   24   STUASL0 UAV.....................          30,930          30,930
   26   VH-92A EXECUTIVE HELO...........         610,231         610,231
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   28   F-18 A-D UNIQUE.................         208,261         208,261
   29   F-18E/F AND EA-18G MODERNIZATION         468,954         468,954
         AND SUSTAINM...................
   30   AEA SYSTEMS.....................          21,061          21,061
   31   AV-8 SERIES.....................          34,082          34,082
   32   INFRARED SEARCH AND TRACK (IRST)         158,055         158,055
   33   ADVERSARY.......................          42,946          42,946
   34   F-18 SERIES.....................         379,351         379,351
   35   H-53 SERIES.....................          74,771          74,771
   36   MH-60 SERIES....................         131,584         131,584
   37   H-1 SERIES......................         185,140         185,140
   38   EP-3 SERIES.....................          26,602          26,602
   40   E-2 SERIES......................         175,540         175,540
   41   TRAINER A/C SERIES..............           7,085           7,085
   42   C-2A............................           9,525           9,525
   43   C-130 SERIES....................         141,705         141,705
   44   FEWSG...........................             684             684
   45   CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C SERIES......           8,911           8,911
   46   E-6 SERIES......................         197,206         197,206
   47   EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS SERIES....          29,086          29,086
   49   T-45 SERIES.....................         155,745         155,745
   50   POWER PLANT CHANGES.............          24,633          24,633
   51   JPATS SERIES....................          22,682          22,682
   52   AVIATION LIFE SUPPORT MODS......          40,401          45,401
            Aviation body armor vest....                         [5,000]
   53   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT............         138,480         138,480
   54   COMMON AVIONICS CHANGES.........         143,322         143,322
   55   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM..           2,142           2,142
   56   ID SYSTEMS......................          35,999          35,999
   57   P-8 SERIES......................         180,530         180,530
   58   MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION...........          27,794          27,794
   59   MQ-8 SERIES.....................          28,774          28,774
   60   V-22 (TILT/ROTOR ACFT) OSPREY...         334,405         334,405
   61   NEXT GENERATION JAMMER (NGJ)....         176,638         176,638
   62   F-35 STOVL SERIES...............         153,588         153,588
   63   F-35 CV SERIES..................         105,452         105,452
   64   QRC.............................         126,618         126,618
   65   MQ-4 SERIES.....................          12,998          12,998
   66   RQ-21 SERIES....................          18,550          18,550
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   70   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........       2,198,460       2,228,460
            Additional F-35B/C spares...                        [30,000]
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIP &
         FACILITIES
   71   COMMON GROUND EQUIPMENT.........         543,559         543,559
   72   AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES..          75,685          75,685
   73   WAR CONSUMABLES.................          40,633          40,633
   74   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES........          21,194          21,194
   75   SPECIAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......         155,179         155,179
   76   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           2,121           2,121
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY      17,127,378      17,407,878
 
        WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
    1   TRIDENT II MODS.................       1,173,837       1,173,837
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
    2   MISSILE INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...           7,275           7,275
        STRATEGIC MISSILES
    3   TOMAHAWK........................         277,694         303,694
            Program increase for USMC                           [26,000]
            Tomahawk....................
        TACTICAL MISSILES
    4   AMRAAM..........................         326,952         326,952
    5   SIDEWINDER......................         126,485         126,485
    7   STANDARD MISSILE................         456,206         456,206
    8   STANDARD MISSILE AP.............          66,716          66,716
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........          78,867          78,867
   10   RAM.............................          90,533          90,533
   11   JOINT AIR GROUND MISSILE (JAGM).          49,386          49,386
   14   AERIAL TARGETS..................         174,336         174,336
   15   DRONES AND DECOYS...............          41,256          41,256
   16   OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT...........           3,501           3,501
   17   LRASM...........................         168,845         203,845
            Additional Navy LRASM                               [35,000]
            missiles....................
   18   LCS OTH MISSILE.................          32,910          32,910
        MODIFICATION OF MISSILES
   19   TOMAHAWK MODS...................         164,915         164,915
   20   ESSM............................         215,375         215,375
   22   HARM MODS.......................         147,572         147,572
   23   STANDARD MISSILES MODS..........          83,654          83,654
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT & FACILITIES
   24   WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES...           1,996           1,996
   25   FLEET SATELLITE COMM FOLLOW-ON..          53,401          53,401
        ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   27   ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......         215,659         215,659
        TORPEDOES AND RELATED EQUIP
   28   SSTD............................           5,811           3,611
            Insufficient justification                          [-2,200]
            for ADC non-recurring costs.
   29   MK-48 TORPEDO...................         284,901         284,901
   30   ASW TARGETS.....................          13,833          13,833
        MOD OF TORPEDOES AND RELATED
         EQUIP
   31   MK-54 TORPEDO MODS..............         110,286         100,286
            Mk 54 Mod 0 production                             [-10,000]
            delays......................
   32   MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP MODS........          57,214          57,214
   33   MARITIME MINES..................           5,832           5,832
        SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   34   TORPEDO SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          97,581          97,581
   35   ASW RANGE SUPPORT...............           4,159           4,159
        DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION
   36   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           4,106           4,106
        GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
   37   SMALL ARMS AND WEAPONS..........          16,030          16,030
        MODIFICATION OF GUNS AND GUN
         MOUNTS
   38   CIWS MODS.......................          37,147          37,147
   39   COAST GUARD WEAPONS.............          45,804          45,804
   40   GUN MOUNT MODS..................          74,427          74,427
   41   LCS MODULE WEAPONS..............           4,253           4,253
   42   AIRBORNE MINE NEUTRALIZATION               6,662           6,662
         SYSTEMS........................
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   45   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........         159,578         159,578
        TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY.       4,884,995       4,933,795
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
        NAVY AMMUNITION
    1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........          41,496          41,496
    2   JDAM............................          64,631          64,631
    3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES.....          60,719          60,719
    4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION..........          11,158          11,158
    5   PRACTICE BOMBS..................          51,409          51,409
    6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED                64,694          64,694
         DEVICES........................
    7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES..          51,523          51,523
    8   JATOS...........................           6,761           6,761
    9   5 INCH/54 GUN AMMUNITION........          31,517          31,517
   10   INTERMEDIATE CALIBER GUN                  38,005          38,005
         AMMUNITION.....................
   11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.......          40,626          40,626
   12   SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO.          48,202          48,202
   13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION......           9,766           9,766
   15   AMMUNITION LESS THAN $5 MILLION.           2,115           2,115
        MARINE CORPS AMMUNITION
   16   MORTARS.........................          46,781          46,781
   17   DIRECT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........         119,504         119,504
   18   INFANTRY WEAPONS AMMUNITION.....          83,220          83,220
   19   COMBAT SUPPORT MUNITIONS........          32,650          32,650
   20   AMMO MODERNIZATION..............          15,144          15,144
   21   ARTILLERY MUNITIONS.............          59,539          59,539
   22   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           4,142           4,142
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY          883,602         883,602
         & MC...........................
 
        SHIPBUILDING AND CONVERSION,
         NAVY
        FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE SHIPS
    1   OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE......       2,891,475       2,891,475
    2   OHIO REPLACEMENT SUBMARINE AP...       1,123,175       1,298,175
            Submarine supplier stability                       [175,000]
        OTHER WARSHIPS
    3   CARRIER REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.....         997,544         997,544
    4   CVN-81..........................       1,645,606       1,645,606
    5   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE........       2,334,693       2,260,293
            Unjustified cost growth.....                       [-74,400]
    6   VIRGINIA CLASS SUBMARINE AP.....       1,901,187       2,373,187
            Long lead material for                             [472,000]
            option ship.................
    7   CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS.........       1,878,453       1,878,453
    8   CVN REFUELING OVERHAULS AP......          17,384          17,384
    9   DDG 1000........................          78,205          78,205
   10   DDG-51..........................       3,040,270       3,010,270
            Available prior-year funds..                       [-30,000]
   11   DDG-51 AP.......................          29,297         464,297
            LLTM for FY22 DDG-51s.......                       [260,000]
            Surface ship supplier                              [175,000]
            stability...................
   13   FFG-FRIGATE.....................       1,053,123       1,053,123
        AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
   14   LPD FLIGHT II...................       1,155,801         905,801
            Transfer to Line 15.........                      [-250,000]
   15   LPD FLIGHT II AP................               0         500,000
            LPD-32 and LPD-33 program                          [250,000]
            increase....................
            Transfer from Line 14 for                          [250,000]
            LPD-32 and LPD-33...........
   17   LHA REPLACEMENT.................               0         250,000
            LHA-9 program increase......                       [250,000]
        AUXILIARIES, CRAFT AND PRIOR YR
         PROGRAM COST
   22   TOWING, SALVAGE, AND RESCUE SHIP         168,209         168,209
         (ATS)..........................
   23   LCU 1700........................          87,395          70,395
            Insufficient justification..                       [-17,000]
   24   OUTFITTING......................         825,586         747,286
            Unjustified cost growth.....                       [-78,300]
   26   SERVICE CRAFT...................         249,781         275,281
            Accelerate YP-703 Flight II.                        [25,500]
   27   LCAC SLEP.......................          56,461               0
            Insufficient justification..                       [-56,461]
   28   COMPLETION OF PY SHIPBUILDING            369,112         369,112
         PROGRAMS.......................
        TOTAL SHIPBUILDING AND                19,902,757      21,254,096
         CONVERSION, NAVY...............
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        SHIP PROPULSION EQUIPMENT
    1   SURFACE POWER EQUIPMENT.........          11,738          11,738
        GENERATORS
    2   SURFACE COMBATANT HM&E..........          58,497          38,497
            Hardware and software                               [15,000]
            upgrades for 5 previously
            procured HED ship sets......
            HED installation early to                          [-35,000]
            need........................
        NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
    3   OTHER NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT......          74,084          74,084
        OTHER SHIPBOARD EQUIPMENT
    4   SUB PERISCOPE, IMAGING AND SUPT          204,806         204,806
         EQUIP PROG.....................
    5   DDG MOD.........................         547,569         497,569
            Installation excess unit                           [-50,000]
            cost growth.................
    6   FIREFIGHTING EQUIPMENT..........          18,394          18,394
    7   COMMAND AND CONTROL SWITCHBOARD.           2,374           2,374
    8   LHA/LHD MIDLIFE.................          78,265          78,265
    9   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT.....          23,035          23,035
   10   SUBMARINE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          64,632          64,632
   11   VIRGINIA CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          22,868          22,868
   12   LCS CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....           3,976           3,976
   13   SUBMARINE BATTERIES.............          31,322          31,322
   14   LPD CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....          50,475          50,475
   15   DDG 1000 CLASS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          42,279          42,279
   16   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP          15,429          15,429
   17   DSSP EQUIPMENT..................           2,918           2,918
   18   CG MODERNIZATION................          87,978          87,978
   19   LCAC............................           9,366           9,366
   20   UNDERWATER EOD EQUIPMENT........          16,842          16,842
   21   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......         105,715         105,715
   22   CHEMICAL WARFARE DETECTORS......           3,044           3,044
   23   SUBMARINE LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEM...           5,885           5,885
        REACTOR PLANT EQUIPMENT
   24   SHIP MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND           1,260,721       1,260,721
         MODERNIZATION..................
   25   REACTOR POWER UNITS.............           5,305           5,305
   26   REACTOR COMPONENTS..............         415,404         415,404
        OCEAN ENGINEERING
   27   DIVING AND SALVAGE EQUIPMENT....          11,143          11,143
        SMALL BOATS
   28   STANDARD BOATS..................          52,371          52,371
        PRODUCTION FACILITIES EQUIPMENT
   29   OPERATING FORCES IPE............         233,667         233,667
        OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
   30   LCS COMMON MISSION MODULES                39,714          17,414
         EQUIPMENT......................
            MCM containers and MPCE                            [-22,300]
            sonar processing
            insufficient justification..
   31   LCS MCM MISSION MODULES.........         218,822          95,322
            Excess procurement ahead of                       [-123,500]
            satisfactory testing........
   32   LCS ASW MISSION MODULES.........          61,759           4,759
            Excess procurement ahead of                        [-57,000]
            satisfactory testing........
   33   LCS SUW MISSION MODULES.........          24,412          24,412
   34   LCS IN-SERVICE MODERNIZATION....         121,848         121,848
   35   SMALL & MEDIUM UUV..............          67,709          37,609
            SMCM UUV excess procurement                        [-30,100]
            ahead of satisfactory
            testing.....................
        SHIP SONARS
   37   SPQ-9B RADAR....................          27,517          27,517
   38   AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW COMBAT SYSTEM         128,664         128,664
   39   SSN ACOUSTIC EQUIPMENT..........         374,737         374,737
   40   UNDERSEA WARFARE SUPPORT                   9,286           9,286
         EQUIPMENT......................
        ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   41   SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC WARFARE                26,066          26,066
         SYSTEM.........................
   42   SSTD............................          13,241          13,241
   43   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.......         193,446         193,446
   44   SURTASS.........................          63,838          63,838
        ELECTRONIC WARFARE EQUIPMENT
   45   AN/SLQ-32.......................         387,195         330,795
            Early to need...............                       [-56,400]
        RECONNAISSANCE EQUIPMENT
   46   SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT............         235,744         235,744
   47   AUTOMATED IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM            3,862           3,862
         (AIS)..........................
        OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   48   COOPERATIVE ENGAGEMENT                    26,006          18,706
         CAPABILITY.....................
            Common Array Block antenna                          [-7,300]
            program delays..............
   49   NAVAL TACTICAL COMMAND SUPPORT            15,385          15,385
         SYSTEM (NTCSS).................
   50   ATDLS...........................         103,835         103,835
   51   NAVY COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM            3,594           3,594
         (NCCS).........................
   52   MINESWEEPING SYSTEM REPLACEMENT.          15,744          15,744
   53   SHALLOW WATER MCM...............           5,493           5,493
   54   NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS (SPACE)...          38,043          38,043
   55   AMERICAN FORCES RADIO AND TV               2,592           2,592
         SERVICE........................
   56   STRATEGIC PLATFORM SUPPORT EQUIP           7,985           7,985
        AVIATION ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   57   ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT............          83,475          83,475
   58   AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT............          65,113          65,113
   59   ID SYSTEMS......................          23,815          23,815
   60   JOINT PRECISION APPROACH AND             100,751         100,751
         LANDING SYSTEM (...............
   61   NAVAL MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS..          13,947          13,947
        OTHER SHORE ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   62   MARITIME INTEGRATED BROADCAST              1,375           1,375
         SYSTEM.........................
   63   TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I SYSTEMS.....          22,771          22,771
   64   DCGS-N..........................          18,872          18,872
   65   CANES...........................         389,585         389,585
   66   RADIAC..........................          10,335          10,335
   67   CANES-INTELL....................          48,654          48,654
   68   GPETE...........................           8,133           8,133
   69   MASF............................           4,150           4,150
   70   INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM TEST                   5,934           5,934
         FACILITY.......................
   71   EMI CONTROL INSTRUMENTATION.....           4,334           4,334
   72   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......         159,815         105,015
            NGSSR available prior year                         [-54,800]
            funds.......................
        SHIPBOARD COMMUNICATIONS
   73   SHIPBOARD TACTICAL                        56,106          56,106
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   74   SHIP COMMUNICATIONS AUTOMATION..         124,288         124,288
   75   COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS UNDER $5M..          45,120          45,120
        SUBMARINE COMMUNICATIONS
   76   SUBMARINE BROADCAST SUPPORT.....          31,133          31,133
   77   SUBMARINE COMMUNICATION                   62,214          62,214
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   78   SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS          47,421          47,421
   79   NAVY MULTIBAND TERMINAL (NMT)...          64,552          64,552
        SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
   80   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT               4,398           4,398
         ELEMENT (JCSE).................
        CRYPTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT
   81   INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY PROGRAM            157,551         157,551
         (ISSP).........................
   82   MIO INTEL EXPLOITATION TEAM.....             985             985
        CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
   83   CRYPTOLOGIC COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP          15,906          15,906
        OTHER ELECTRONIC SUPPORT
   90   COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT...........          70,689          70,689
        SONOBUOYS
   92   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES............         237,639         286,739
            Program increase for                                [49,100]
            sonobuoys...................
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   93   MINOTAUR........................           5,077           5,077
   94   WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.          83,969          83,969
   95   AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......         187,758         187,758
   96   ADVANCED ARRESTING GEAR (AAG)...          16,059          16,059
   97   METEOROLOGICAL EQUIPMENT........          15,192          15,192
   99   LEGACY AIRBORNE MCM.............           6,674           6,674
  100   LAMPS EQUIPMENT.................           1,189           1,189
  101   AVIATION SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          58,873          58,873
  102   UMCS-UNMAN CARRIER                        60,937          60,937
         AVIATION(UCA)MISSION CNTRL.....
        SHIP GUN SYSTEM EQUIPMENT
  103   SHIP GUN SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT......           5,540           5,540
        SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIPMENT
  104   HARPOON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......             208             208
  105   SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..         262,077         262,077
  106   TOMAHAWK SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          84,087          84,087
        FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  107   STRATEGIC MISSILE SYSTEMS EQUIP.         258,910         258,910
        ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  108   SSN COMBAT CONTROL SYSTEMS......         173,770         173,770
  109   ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT...........          26,584          26,584
        OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  110   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL                7,470           7,470
         EQUIP..........................
  111   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           6,356           6,356
        OTHER EXPENDABLE ORDNANCE
  112   ANTI-SHIP MISSILE DECOY SYSTEM..          86,356          86,356
  113   SUBMARINE TRAINING DEVICE MODS..          69,240          69,240
  114   SURFACE TRAINING EQUIPMENT......         192,245         192,245
        CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
         EQUIPMENT
  115   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           6,123           6,123
  116   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS..........           2,693           2,693
  117   CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE EQUIP          47,301          47,301
  118   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.........          10,352          10,352
  119   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          31,475          31,475
  121   POLLUTION CONTROL EQUIPMENT.....           2,630           2,630
  122   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......          47,972          47,972
  123   PHYSICAL SECURITY VEHICLES......           1,171           1,171
        SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  124   SUPPLY EQUIPMENT................          19,693          19,693
  125   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION           4,956           4,956
  126   SPECIAL PURPOSE SUPPLY SYSTEMS..         668,639         668,639
        TRAINING DEVICES
  127   TRAINING SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......           4,026           4,026
  128   TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT          73,454          73,454
        COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  129   COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......          32,390          32,390
  130   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......             974             974
  132   NAVAL MIP SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.....           5,606           5,606
  133   OPERATING FORCES SUPPORT                  16,024          16,024
         EQUIPMENT......................
  134   C4ISR EQUIPMENT.................           6,697           6,697
  135   ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.          27,503          27,503
  136   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....         138,281         138,281
  137   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION                    42,680          42,680
         TECHNOLOGY.....................
        OTHER
  140   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE               184,443         184,443
         SERVICE........................
  141   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES...........          16,523          16,523
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          18,446          18,446
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
  142   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........         374,195         374,195
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY...      10,948,518      10,576,218
 
        PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
        TRACKED COMBAT VEHICLES
    1   AAV7A1 PIP......................          87,476          87,476
    2   AMPHIBIOUS COMBAT VEHICLE FAMILY         478,874         478,874
         OF VEHICLES....................
    3   LAV PIP.........................          41,988          41,988
        ARTILLERY AND OTHER WEAPONS
    4   155MM LIGHTWEIGHT TOWED HOWITZER              59              59
    5   ARTILLERY WEAPONS SYSTEM........         174,687         234,287
            Ground-Based Anti-Ship                              [59,600]
            Missile NSM.................
    6   WEAPONS AND COMBAT VEHICLES               24,867          24,867
         UNDER $5 MILLION...............
        OTHER SUPPORT
    7   MODIFICATION KITS...............           3,067           3,067
        GUIDED MISSILES
    8   GROUND BASED AIR DEFENSE........          18,920          18,920
    9   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-JAVELIN......          19,888          19,888
   10   FAMILY ANTI-ARMOR WEAPON SYSTEMS          21,891          21,891
         (FOAAWS).......................
   11   ANTI-ARMOR MISSILE-TOW..........          34,985          34,985
   12   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......         133,689         133,689
        COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
   13   COMMON AVIATION COMMAND AND               35,057          35,057
         CONTROL SYSTEM (C..............
        REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT
   14   REPAIR AND TEST EQUIPMENT.......          24,405          24,405
        OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
   15   MODIFICATION KITS...............           1,006           1,006
        COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM (NON-
         TEL)
   16   ITEMS UNDER $5 MILLION (COMM &            69,725          69,725
         ELEC)..........................
   17   AIR OPERATIONS C2 SYSTEMS.......          15,611          15,611
        RADAR + EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   19   GROUND/AIR TASK ORIENTED RADAR           284,283         284,283
         (G/ATOR).......................
        INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   20   GCSS-MC.........................           1,587           1,587
   21   FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM.............          24,934          24,934
   22   INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..          50,728          50,728
   24   UNMANNED AIR SYSTEMS (INTEL)....          24,853          24,853
   25   DCGS-MC.........................          38,260          38,260
   26   UAS PAYLOADS....................           5,489           5,489
        OTHER SUPPORT (NON-TEL)
   29   NEXT GENERATION ENTERPRISE                78,922          78,922
         NETWORK (NGEN).................
   30   COMMON COMPUTER RESOURCES.......          35,349          35,349
   31   COMMAND POST SYSTEMS............          33,713          33,713
   32   RADIO SYSTEMS...................         343,250         343,250
   33   COMM SWITCHING & CONTROL SYSTEMS          40,627          40,627
   34   COMM & ELEC INFRASTRUCTURE                43,782          43,782
         SUPPORT........................
   35   CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES...........          53,896          53,896
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           3,797           3,797
        ADMINISTRATIVE VEHICLES
   37   COMMERCIAL CARGO VEHICLES.......          22,460          22,460
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   38   MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS...          10,739          10,739
   39   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....         381,675         381,675
   40   FAMILY OF TACTICAL TRAILERS.....           2,963           2,963
        ENGINEER AND OTHER EQUIPMENT
   42   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL EQUIP                  385             385
         ASSORT.........................
   43   TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS...........             501             501
   44   POWER EQUIPMENT ASSORTED........          23,430          23,430
   45   AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT....           5,752           5,752
   46   EOD SYSTEMS.....................          20,939          20,939
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
   47   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....          23,063          23,063
        GENERAL PROPERTY
   48   FIELD MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.........           4,187           4,187
   49   TRAINING DEVICES................         101,765         101,765
   50   FAMILY OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT          19,305          19,305
   51   ULTRA-LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE                 678             678
         (ULTV).........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   52   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......           9,174           9,174
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   53   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          27,295          27,295
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS.       2,903,976       2,963,576
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        TACTICAL FORCES
    1   F-35............................       4,567,018       5,543,685
            Additional 12 F-35As........                       [976,667]
    2   F-35............................         610,800         610,800
    4   F-15EX..........................       1,269,847       1,269,847
    5   F-15EX..........................         133,500         133,500
        TACTICAL AIRLIFT
    7   KC-46A MDAP.....................       2,850,151       2,850,151
        OTHER AIRLIFT
    8   C-130J..........................          37,131          37,131
   10   MC-130J.........................         362,807         362,807
   11   MC-130J.........................          39,987          39,987
        HELICOPTERS
   12   UH-1N REPLACEMENT...............         194,016         194,016
   13   COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER........         973,473         973,473
        MISSION SUPPORT AIRCRAFT
   15   CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C............           2,811           2,811
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   16   TARGET DRONES...................         133,273         133,273
   18   COMPASS CALL....................         161,117         161,117
   20   MQ-9............................          29,409          79,409
            Program increase............                        [50,000]
        STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
   22   B-1.............................           3,853               0
            USAF-requested transfer to                          [-3,853]
            RDAF Line 174...............
   23   B-2A............................          31,476          31,476
   24   B-1B............................          21,808          21,315
            USAF-requested transfer to                            [-493]
            RDAF Line 174...............
   25   B-52............................          53,949          53,949
   26   LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED                    9,999           9,999
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
   27   A-10............................         135,793         135,793
   28   E-11 BACN/HAG...................          33,645          33,645
   29   F-15............................         349,304         349,304
   30   F-16............................         615,760         640,760
            Additional radars...........                        [25,000]
   32   F-22A...........................         387,905         387,905
   33   F-35 MODIFICATIONS..............         322,185         322,185
   34   F-15 EPAW.......................          31,995          31,995
   35   INCREMENT 3.2B..................           5,889           5,889
   36   KC-46A MDAP.....................          24,085          24,085
        AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
   37   C-5.............................          62,108          62,108
   38   C-17A...........................          66,798          66,798
   40   C-32A...........................           2,947           2,947
   41   C-37A...........................          12,985          12,985
        TRAINER AIRCRAFT
   42   GLIDER MODS.....................             977             977
   43   T-6.............................          26,829          26,829
   44   T-1.............................           4,465           4,465
   45   T-38............................          36,806          44,506
            T-38 ejection seats.........                         [7,700]
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   46   U-2 MODS........................         110,618         110,618
   47   KC-10A (ATCA)...................             117             117
   49   VC-25A MOD......................           1,983           1,983
   50   C-40............................           9,252           9,252
   51   C-130...........................           5,871           5,871
   52   C-130J MODS.....................         140,032         140,032
   53   C-135...........................          88,250          88,250
   55   COMPASS CALL....................         193,389         193,389
   57   RC-135..........................         191,332         191,332
   58   E-3.............................         172,141         172,141
   59   E-4.............................          58,803          44,103
            Funds rephased to future                           [-14,700]
            fiscal years................
   60   E-8.............................          11,037          21,037
            Secure information                                  [10,000]
            transmission capability.....
   61   AIRBORNE WARNING AND CNTRL SYS            53,343          53,343
         (AWACS) 40/45..................
   62   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT             1,573           1,573
         TERMINALS......................
   63   H-1.............................           4,410           4,410
   64   H-60............................          44,538          44,538
   65   RQ-4 MODS.......................          40,468          40,468
   66   HC/MC-130 MODIFICATIONS.........          20,780          20,780
   67   OTHER AIRCRAFT..................         100,774         100,774
   68   MQ-9 MODS.......................         188,387         188,387
   70   CV-22 MODS......................         122,306         127,306
            CV-22 ABSS..................                         [5,000]
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   71   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS.....         926,683         956,683
            F-35A initial spares                                [30,000]
            increase....................
        COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   73   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT             132,719         132,719
         EQUIP..........................
        POST PRODUCTION SUPPORT
   74   B-2A............................           1,683           1,683
   75   B-2B............................          46,734          46,734
   76   B-52............................           1,034           1,034
   79   E-11 BACN/HAG...................          63,419          63,419
   80   F-15............................           2,632           2,632
   81   F-16............................          14,163          14,163
   83   OTHER AIRCRAFT..................           4,595           4,595
   84   RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION CHARGES....          32,585          32,585
        INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
   85   INDUSTRIAL RESPONSIVENESS.......          18,215          18,215
        WAR CONSUMABLES
   86   WAR CONSUMABLES.................          36,046          36,046
        OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES
   87   OTHER PRODUCTION CHARGES........       1,439,640       1,514,640
            Classified increase.........                        [75,000]
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............          21,692          21,692
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR       17,908,145      19,068,466
         FORCE..........................
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQUIPMENT--
         BALLISTIC
    1   MISSILE REPLACEMENT EQ-BALLISTIC          75,012          75,012
        TACTICAL
    2   REPLAC EQUIP & WAR CONSUMABLES..           4,495           4,495
    4   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF               475,949         400,949
         MISSILE........................
            Realignment to support NDS                         [-75,000]
            requirements in Pacific.....
    5   LRASM0..........................          19,800          94,800
            Additional Air Force LRASM                          [75,000]
            missiles....................
    6   SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X).............         164,769         164,769
    7   AMRAAM..........................         453,223         453,223
    8   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.......          40,129          40,129
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB.............          45,475          45,475
   10   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB II..........         273,272         273,272
        INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
   11   INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/POL                     814             814
         PREVENTION.....................
        CLASS IV
   13   ICBM FUZE MOD...................           3,458           3,458
   14   ICBM FUZE MOD AP................          43,450          43,450
   15   MM III MODIFICATIONS............          85,310          85,310
   16   AGM-65D MAVERICK................             298             298
   17   AIR LAUNCH CRUISE MISSILE (ALCM)          52,924          52,924
        MISSILE SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   18   MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (INITIAL).           9,402           9,402
   19   MSL SPRS/REPAIR PARTS (REPLEN)..          84,671          84,671
        SPECIAL PROGRAMS
   25   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAMS.........          23,501          23,501
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............         540,465         540,465
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR         2,396,417       2,396,417
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE
        SPACE PROCUREMENT, SF
    1   ADVANCED EHF....................          14,823          14,823
    2   AF SATELLITE COMM SYSTEM........          48,326          48,326
    3   COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS............          65,540          65,540
    4   FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-OF-SIGHT            66,190          66,190
         TERMINALS......................
    5   GENERAL INFORMATION TECH--SPACE.           3,299           3,299
    6   GPSIII FOLLOW ON................         627,796         627,796
    7   GPS III SPACE SEGMENT...........          20,122          20,122
    8   GLOBAL POSTIONING (SPACE).......           2,256           2,256
    9   SPACEBORNE EQUIP (COMSEC).......          35,495          35,495
   10   MILSATCOM.......................          15,795          15,795
   11   SBIR HIGH (SPACE)...............         160,891         160,891
   12   SPECIAL SPACE ACTIVITIES........          78,387          78,387
   13   NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE LAUNCH..       1,043,171       1,043,171
   14   NUDET DETECTION SYSTEM..........           6,638           6,638
   15   ROCKET SYSTEMS LAUNCH PROGRAM...          47,741          47,741
   16   SPACE FENCE.....................          11,279          11,279
   17   SPACE MODS......................          96,551         109,051
            Cobra Dane service life                             [12,500]
            extension...................
   18   SPACELIFT RANGE SYSTEM SPACE....         100,492         100,492
        SPARES
   19   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........           1,272           1,272
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, SPACE FORCE..       2,446,064       2,458,564
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
         FORCE
        ROCKETS
    1   ROCKETS.........................          14,962          14,962
        CARTRIDGES
    2   CARTRIDGES......................         123,365         123,365
        BOMBS
    3   PRACTICE BOMBS..................          59,725          59,725
    6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION....         206,989         206,989
    7   B61.............................          35,634          35,634
        OTHER ITEMS
    9   CAD/PAD.........................          47,830          47,830
   10   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL                6,232           6,232
         (EOD)..........................
   11   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........             542             542
   12   MODIFICATIONS...................           1,310           1,310
   13   ITEMS LESS THAN $5,000,000......           4,753           4,753
        FLARES
   15   FLARES..........................          40,088          40,088
        FUZES
   16   FUZES...........................          40,983          40,983
        SMALL ARMS
   17   SMALL ARMS......................          13,925          13,925
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,         596,338         596,338
         AIR FORCE......................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
    1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           9,016           9,016
        CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
    2   MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE.........          15,058          15,058
    3   CAP VEHICLES....................           1,059           1,059
    4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES......          38,920          38,920
        SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
    5   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....          30,544          30,544
    6   SECURITY AND TACTICAL VEHICLES..             319             319
    7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES........          43,157          43,157
        FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
    8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE                 8,621           8,621
         VEHICLES.......................
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES.....          12,897          12,897
        BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
   10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING             3,577           3,577
         EQU............................
   11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                  43,095          43,095
         VEHICLES.......................
        COMM SECURITY EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
   13   COMSEC EQUIPMENT................          54,864          54,864
        INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
   14   INTERNATIONAL INTEL TECH &                 9,283          10,783
         ARCHITECTURES..................
            PDI: Mission Partner                                 [1,500]
            Environment BICES-X local
            upgrades....................
   15   INTELLIGENCE TRAINING EQUIPMENT.           6,849           6,849
   16   INTELLIGENCE COMM EQUIPMENT.....          33,471          33,471
        ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
   17   AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL & LANDING             29,409          29,409
         SYS............................
   18   BATTLE CONTROL SYSTEM--FIXED....           7,909           7,909
   19   THEATER AIR CONTROL SYS                   32,632          32,632
         IMPROVEMEN.....................
   20   WEATHER OBSERVATION FORECAST....          33,021          33,021
   21   STRATEGIC COMMAND AND CONTROL...          31,353          31,353
   22   CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN COMPLEX.......          10,314          10,314
   23   MISSION PLANNING SYSTEMS........          15,132          15,132
   25   INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN & ANALY              9,806           9,806
         NETWORK (ISPAN)................
        SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
   26   GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY..          39,887          39,887
   27   AF GLOBAL COMMAND & CONTROL SYS.           2,602           2,602
   29   MOBILITY COMMAND AND CONTROL....          10,541          10,541
   30   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY               96,277          96,277
         SYSTEM.........................
   31   COMBAT TRAINING RANGES..........         195,185         195,185
   32   MINIMUM ESSENTIAL EMERGENCY COMM          29,664          29,664
         N..............................
   33   WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE (WAS)....          59,633          59,633
   34   C3 COUNTERMEASURES..............         105,584         105,584
   36   DEFENSE ENTERPRISE ACCOUNTING &              899             899
         MGT SYS........................
   38   THEATER BATTLE MGT C2 SYSTEM....           3,392           3,392
   39   AIR & SPACE OPERATIONS CENTER             24,983          24,983
         (AOC)..........................
        AIR FORCE COMMUNICATIONS
   41   BASE INFORMATION TRANSPT INFRAST          19,147          19,147
         (BITI) WIRED...................
   42   AFNET...........................          84,515          84,515
   43   JOINT COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT               6,185           6,185
         ELEMENT (JCSE).................
   44   USCENTCOM.......................          19,649          19,649
   45   USSTRATCOM......................           4,337           4,337
        ORGANIZATION AND BASE
   46   TACTICAL C-E EQUIPMENT..........         137,033         137,033
   47   RADIO EQUIPMENT.................          15,264          15,264
   49   BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE........         132,281         146,281
            PDI: Mission Partner                                [14,000]
            Environment PACNET..........
        MODIFICATIONS
   50   COMM ELECT MODS.................          21,471          21,471
        PERSONAL SAFETY & RESCUE EQUIP
   51   PERSONAL SAFETY AND RESCUE                49,578          49,578
         EQUIPMENT......................
        DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS HANDLING EQ
   52   POWER CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT....          11,454          11,454
   53   MECHANIZED MATERIAL HANDLING              12,110          12,110
         EQUIP..........................
        BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   54   BASE PROCURED EQUIPMENT.........          21,142          21,142
   55   ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT...           7,700           7,700
   56   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT..............          18,266          22,966
            Insulation system for Air                            [4,700]
            Force shelters..............
   57   FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE)...           9,601           9,601
   58   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT              42,078          42,078
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
   60   DARP RC135......................          27,164          27,164
   61   DCGS-AF.........................         121,528         121,528
   63   SPECIAL UPDATE PROGRAM..........         782,641         782,641
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............      21,086,112      21,086,112
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   64   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS (CYBER).           1,664           1,664
   65   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........          15,847          15,847
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR          23,695,720      23,715,920
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
    2   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           1,398           1,398
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCSA
    3   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           2,212           2,212
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
    5   PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION........           4,213           4,213
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
   11   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY....          17,211          17,211
   12   TELEPORT PROGRAM................          29,841          29,841
   13   JOINT FORCES HEADQUARTERS--DODIN           3,091           3,091
   14   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION......          41,569          41,569
   16   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM                26,978          26,978
         NETWORK........................
   17   WHITE HOUSE COMMUNICATION AGENCY          44,161          44,161
   18   SENIOR LEADERSHIP ENTERPRISE....          35,935          35,935
   19   JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY STACKS            88,741          77,641
         (JRSS).........................
            JRSS SIPR funding...........                       [-11,100]
   20   JOINT SERVICE PROVIDER..........         157,538         157,538
   21   FOURTH ESTATE NETWORK                     42,084          42,084
         OPTIMIZATION (4ENO)............
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
   23   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................         417,459         417,459
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DMACT
   24   MAJOR EQUIPMENT.................           7,993           7,993
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DODEA
   25   AUTOMATION/EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT &           1,319           1,319
         LOGISTICS......................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA
   26   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DPAA...........             500             500
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE
         SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY
   27   REGIONAL CENTER PROCUREMENT.....           1,598           1,598
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
         REDUCTION AGENCY
   28   VEHICLES........................             215             215
   29   OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT...........           9,994           9,994
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, MISSILE DEFENSE
         AGENCY
   31   THAAD...........................         495,396         601,796
            8th THAAD battery components                        [76,300]
            HEMTT life-of-type buy......                        [30,100]
   34   AEGIS BMD.......................         356,195         356,195
   35   AEGIS BMD AP....................          44,901          44,901
   36   BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS............               0         243,300
            8th THAAD battery radar                            [243,300]
            equipment...................
   37   SM-3 IIAS.......................         218,322         346,322
            Additional SM-3 Block IIA                          [128,000]
            interceptors................
   38   ARROW 3 UPPER TIER SYSTEMS......          77,000          77,000
   39   SHORT RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE             50,000          50,000
         DEFENSE (SRBMD)................
   40   AEGIS ASHORE PHASE III..........          39,114          39,114
   41   IRON DOME.......................          73,000          73,000
   42   AEGIS BMD HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE.         104,241         104,241
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
   48   INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY                 101             101
         PROGRAM (ISSP).................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
   49   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD............           3,099           3,099
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
   50   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS............           8,329           8,329
   51   MAJOR EQUIPMENT--TJS CYBER......           1,247           1,247
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
   53   MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS............             515             515
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
 9999   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............         554,264         554,264
        AVIATION PROGRAMS
   55   ARMED OVERWATCH/TARGETING.......         101,000               0
            Lack of validated                                 [-101,000]
            requirement and analysis....
   56   MANNED ISR......................               0          40,100
            SOCOM DHC-8 combat loss                             [40,100]
            replacement.................
   59   ROTARY WING UPGRADES AND                 211,041         211,041
         SUSTAINMENT....................
   60   UNMANNED ISR....................          25,488          25,488
   61   NON-STANDARD AVIATION...........          61,874          61,874
   62   U-28............................           3,825          28,525
            SOCOM aircraft maintenance                          [24,700]
            support combat loss
            replacement.................
   63   MH-47 CHINOOK...................         135,482         135,482
   64   CV-22 MODIFICATION..............          14,829          14,829
   65   MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE....           6,746           6,746
   66   PRECISION STRIKE PACKAGE........         243,111         243,111
   67   AC/MC-130J......................         163,914         163,914
   68   C-130 MODIFICATIONS.............          20,414          20,414
        SHIPBUILDING
   69   UNDERWATER SYSTEMS..............          20,556          20,556
        AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
   70   ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M.............         186,197         186,197
        OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
   71   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS............          94,982         108,382
            Transfer from MMP-Light to                          [13,400]
            man-pack....................
   72   DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND/                11,645          11,645
         SURFACE SYSTEMS................
   73   OTHER ITEMS <$5M................          96,333          96,333
   74   COMBATANT CRAFT SYSTEMS.........          17,278          17,278
   75   SPECIAL PROGRAMS................          78,865          78,865
   76   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............          30,158          30,158
   77   WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M............         260,733         248,533
            MMP-Light unexecutable,                            [-12,200]
            transfer to man-pack........
   78   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS.....          19,848          19,848
   79   GLOBAL VIDEO SURVEILLANCE                  2,401           2,401
         ACTIVITIES.....................
   80   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                  13,861          13,861
         INTELLIGENCE...................
   81   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS........         247,038         259,538
            SOCOM Syria exfiltration                            [12,500]
            reconsitution...............
        CBDP
   82   CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL SITUATIONAL          147,150         147,150
         AWARENESS......................
   83   CB PROTECTION & HAZARD                   149,944         149,944
         MITIGATION.....................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE.       5,324,487       5,768,587
 
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT...............     130,684,160     134,014,838
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2021         Senate
 Line                 Item                    Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        ROTARY
    9   AH-64 APACHE BLOCK IIIB NEW               69,154          69,154
         BUILD..........................
   14   CH-47 HELICOPTER................          50,472          50,472
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   17   MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)..............           5,968           5,968
   20   MULTI SENSOR ABN RECON (MIP)....         122,520         122,520
   25   EMARSS SEMA MODS (MIP)..........          26,460          26,460
   30   DEGRADED VISUAL ENVIRONMENT.....           1,916           1,916
        GROUND SUPPORT AVIONICS
   37   CMWS............................         149,162         149,162
   38   COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES           32,400          32,400
         (CIRCM)........................
        OTHER SUPPORT
   41   AIRCREW INTEGRATED SYSTEMS......           3,028           3,028
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, ARMY         461,080         461,080
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE SYSTEM
    2   M-SHORAD--PROCUREMENT...........         158,300         158,300
    3   MSE MISSILE.....................         176,585               0
            Inappropriate for EDI,                            [-176,585]
            transfer to base............
        AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILE SYSTEM
    6   HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY............         236,265         236,265
        ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT MISSILE SYS
   11   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......         127,015         127,015
   15   LETHAL MINIATURE AERIAL MISSILE           84,993          84,993
         SYSTEM (LMAMS..................
        MODIFICATIONS
   17   ATACMS MODS.....................          78,434          78,434
   22   MLRS MODS.......................          20,000          20,000
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, ARMY.         881,592         705,007
 
        PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY
        WEAPONS & OTHER COMBAT VEHICLES
   16   MULTI-ROLE ANTI-ARMOR ANTI-                4,765           4,765
         PERSONNEL WEAPON S.............
   18   MORTAR SYSTEMS..................          10,460          10,460
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV, ARMY          15,225          15,225
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, ARMY
        SMALL/MEDIUM CAL AMMUNITION
    1   CTG, 5.56MM, ALL TYPES..........             567             567
    2   CTG, 7.62MM, ALL TYPES..........              40              40
    4   CTG, HANDGUN, ALL TYPES.........              17              17
    5   CTG, .50 CAL, ALL TYPES.........             189             189
    8   CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES............          24,900          24,900
        ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
   16   PROJ 155MM EXTENDED RANGE M982..          29,213          29,213
   17   ARTILLERY PROPELLANTS, FUZES AND          21,675          21,675
         PRIMERS, ALL...................
        ROCKETS
   20   SHOULDER LAUNCHED MUNITIONS, ALL             176             176
         TYPES..........................
   21   ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL TYPES.....          33,880          33,880
        MISCELLANEOUS
   29   ITEMS LESS THAN $5 MILLION                    11              11
         (AMMO).........................
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,         110,668         110,668
         ARMY...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   13   FAMILY OF HEAVY TACTICAL                   6,500           6,500
         VEHICLES (FHTV)................
   14   PLS ESP.........................          15,163          15,163
   17   TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE                  27,066          27,066
         PROTECTION KITS................
        COMM--SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
   30   TRANSPORTABLE TACTICAL COMMAND             2,700           2,700
         COMMUNICATIONS.................
   32   ASSURED POSITIONING, NAVIGATION           12,566          12,566
         AND TIMING.....................
   33   SMART-T (SPACE).................             289             289
   34   GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--GBS..........             319             319
        COMM--COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS
   45   FAMILY OF MED COMM FOR COMBAT              1,257           1,257
         CASUALTY CARE..................
        COMM--INTELLIGENCE COMM
   48   CI AUTOMATION ARCHITECTURE (MIP)           1,230           1,230
        INFORMATION SECURITY
   52   COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC)             128             128
        COMM--BASE COMMUNICATIONS
   58   INFORMATION SYSTEMS.............          15,277          15,277
   62   INSTALLATION INFO INFRASTRUCTURE          74,004          80,004
         MOD PROGRAM....................
            EDI: NATO Response Force                             [6,000]
            (NRF) networks..............
        ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT REL ACT
         (TIARA)
   68   DCGS-A (MIP)....................          47,709          47,709
   70   TROJAN (MIP)....................           1,766           1,766
   71   MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP (INTEL SPT)           61,450          61,450
         (MIP)..........................
   73   BIOMETRIC TACTICAL COLLECTION             12,337          12,337
         DEVICES (MIP)..................
        ELECT EQUIP--ELECTRONIC WARFARE
         (EW)
   80   FAMILY OF PERSISTENT                      44,293          44,293
         SURVEILLANCE CAP. (MIP)........
   81   COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/SECURITY              49,100          49,100
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL SURV. (TAC
         SURV)
   83   SENTINEL MODS...................          33,496          33,496
   84   NIGHT VISION DEVICES............             643             643
   87   RADIATION MONITORING SYSTEMS....              11              11
   88   INDIRECT FIRE PROTECTION FAMILY           37,000          37,000
         OF SYSTEMS.....................
   94   COMPUTER BALLISTICS: LHMBC XM32.             280             280
   95   MORTAR FIRE CONTROL SYSTEM......          13,672          13,672
        ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL C2 SYSTEMS
  100   AIR & MSL DEFENSE PLANNING &              15,143          15,143
         CONTROL SYS....................
        ELECT EQUIP--AUTOMATION
  109   ARMY TRAINING MODERNIZATION.....           4,688           4,688
  110   AUTOMATED DATA PROCESSING EQUIP.          16,552          16,552
        CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE EQUIPMENT
  121   FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL EQUIPMENT            25,480          25,480
         (FNLE).........................
  122   BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (BDS)......          98,960          98,960
  123   CBRN DEFENSE....................          18,887          18,887
        BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
  125   TACTICAL BRIDGING...............          50,400          50,400
        ENGINEER (NON-CONSTRUCTION)
         EQUIPMENT
  137   RENDER SAFE SETS KITS OUTFITS...          84,000          84,000
        COMBAT SERVICE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  140   HEATERS AND ECU'S...............             370             370
  142   PERSONNEL RECOVERY SUPPORT                 3,721           3,721
         SYSTEM (PRSS)..................
  145   FORCE PROVIDER..................          56,400         129,800
            EDI: Improvements to living                         [73,400]
            quarters for rotational
            forces in Europe............
  146   FIELD FEEDING EQUIPMENT.........           2,279           2,279
  147   CARGO AERIAL DEL & PERSONNEL               2,040           2,040
         PARACHUTE SYSTEM...............
        PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
  150   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS, PETROLEUM            4,374           4,374
         & WATER........................
        MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
  151   COMBAT SUPPORT MEDICAL..........           6,390           6,390
        MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
  152   MOBILE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT               7,769           7,769
         SYSTEMS........................
  153   ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M (MAINT EQ)             184             184
        CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
  156   LOADERS.........................           3,190           3,190
  157   HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR.............           7,600           7,600
  158   TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED...........           7,450           7,450
  160   HIGH MOBILITY ENGINEER EXCAVATOR           3,703           3,703
         (HMEE).........................
  162   CONST EQUIP ESP.................             657             657
        GENERATORS
  167   GENERATORS AND ASSOCIATED EQUIP.             106             106
        MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT
  169   FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS.............           1,885           1,885
        OTHER SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  180   RAPID EQUIPPING SOLDIER SUPPORT            8,500           8,500
         EQUIPMENT......................
  181   PHYSICAL SECURITY SYSTEMS (OPA3)           3,248           3,248
  185   BUILDING, PRE-FAB, RELOCATABLE..          31,845          31,845
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, ARMY...         924,077       1,003,477
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   24   STUASL0 UAV.....................           7,921           7,921
        MODIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT
   53   COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT............           3,474           3,474
   55   COMMON DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEM..           3,339           3,339
   64   QRC.............................          18,507          18,507
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, NAVY          33,241          33,241
 
        WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        TACTICAL MISSILES
   12   HELLFIRE........................           5,572           5,572
        TOTAL WEAPONS PROCUREMENT, NAVY.           5,572           5,572
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY & MC
        NAVY AMMUNITION
    1   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........           8,068           8,068
    2   JDAM............................          15,529          15,529
    3   AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL TYPES.....          23,000          23,000
    4   MACHINE GUN AMMUNITION..........          22,600          22,600
    6   CARTRIDGES & CART ACTUATED                 3,927           3,927
         DEVICES........................
    7   AIR EXPENDABLE COUNTERMEASURES..          15,978          15,978
    8   JATOS...........................           2,100           2,100
   11   OTHER SHIP GUN AMMUNITION.......           2,611           2,611
   12   SMALL ARMS & LANDING PARTY AMMO.           1,624           1,624
   13   PYROTECHNIC AND DEMOLITION......             505             505
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMO, NAVY           95,942          95,942
         & MC...........................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY
        SMALL BOATS
   28   STANDARD BOATS..................          19,104          19,104
        OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
   35   SMALL & MEDIUM UUV..............           2,946           2,946
        ASW ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
   43   FIXED SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM.......         213,000         213,000
        SONOBUOYS
   92   SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES............          26,196          26,196
        AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   95   AIRCRAFT SUPPORT EQUIPMENT......          60,217          60,217
        OTHER ORDNANCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  110   EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL                2,124           2,124
         EQUIP..........................
        CIVIL ENGINEERING SUPPORT
         EQUIPMENT
  115   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....             177             177
  116   GENERAL PURPOSE TRUCKS..........             416             416
  118   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.........             801             801
        SUPPLY SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  125   FIRST DESTINATION TRANSPORTATION             520             520
        TRAINING DEVICES
  128   TRAINING AND EDUCATION EQUIPMENT          11,500          11,500
        COMMAND SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
  130   MEDICAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.......           3,525           3,525
  136   PHYSICAL SECURITY EQUIPMENT.....           3,000           3,000
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, NAVY...         343,526         343,526
 
        PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS
        GUIDED MISSILES
   12   GUIDED MLRS ROCKET (GMLRS)......          17,456          17,456
        OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
   15   MODIFICATION KITS...............           4,200           4,200
        INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
   22   INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT..          10,124          10,124
        TACTICAL VEHICLES
   38   MOTOR TRANSPORT MODIFICATIONS...          16,183          16,183
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, MARINE CORPS.          47,963          47,963
 
        AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        HELICOPTERS
   13   COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER........         174,000         174,000
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   20   MQ-9............................         142,490         142,490
   21   RQ-20B PUMA.....................          13,770          13,770
        STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
   26   LARGE AIRCRAFT INFRARED                   57,521          57,521
         COUNTERMEASURES................
        OTHER AIRCRAFT
   46   U-2 MODS........................           9,600           9,600
   55   COMPASS CALL....................          12,800          12,800
   66   HC/MC-130 MODIFICATIONS.........          58,020          58,020
   69   MQ-9 UAS PAYLOADS...............          46,100          46,100
   70   CV-22 MODS......................           6,290           6,290
        AIRCRAFT SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   71   INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR PARTS.....          10,700          10,700
   72   MQ-9............................          12,250          12,250
        COMMON SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   73   AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT SUPPORT              25,614          25,614
         EQUIP..........................
        TOTAL AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT, AIR          569,155         569,155
         FORCE..........................
 
        MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        TACTICAL
    4   JOINT AIR-SURFACE STANDOFF                30,000          30,000
         MISSILE........................
    8   PREDATOR HELLFIRE MISSILE.......         143,420         143,420
    9   SMALL DIAMETER BOMB.............          50,352          50,352
        TOTAL MISSILE PROCUREMENT, AIR           223,772         223,772
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION, AIR
         FORCE
        ROCKETS
    1   ROCKETS.........................          19,489          19,489
        CARTRIDGES
    2   CARTRIDGES......................          40,434          40,434
        BOMBS
    4   GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS...........         369,566         369,566
    6   JOINT DIRECT ATTACK MUNITION....         237,723         237,723
        FLARES
   15   FLARES..........................          21,171          21,171
        FUZES
   16   FUZES...........................         107,855         107,855
        SMALL ARMS
   17   SMALL ARMS......................           6,217           6,217
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT OF AMMUNITION,         802,455         802,455
         AIR FORCE......................
 
        OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR FORCE
        PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES
    1   PASSENGER CARRYING VEHICLES.....           1,302           1,302
        CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES
    2   MEDIUM TACTICAL VEHICLE.........           3,400           3,400
    4   CARGO AND UTILITY VEHICLES......          12,475          12,475
        SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
    5   JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL VEHICLE....          26,150          26,150
    7   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES........          51,254          51,254
        FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
    8   FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH RESCUE                24,903          24,903
         VEHICLES.......................
        MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT
    9   MATERIALS HANDLING VEHICLES.....          14,167          14,167
        BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT
   10   RUNWAY SNOW REMOV AND CLEANING             5,759           5,759
         EQU............................
   11   BASE MAINTENANCE SUPPORT                  20,653          20,653
         VEHICLES.......................
        SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS PROJECTS
   26   GENERAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY..           5,100           5,100
   30   AIR FORCE PHYSICAL SECURITY               56,496          56,496
         SYSTEM.........................
        ORGANIZATION AND BASE
   49   BASE COMM INFRASTRUCTURE........          30,717          30,717
        BASE SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
   55   ENGINEERING AND EOD EQUIPMENT...          13,172          13,172
   56   MOBILITY EQUIPMENT..............          33,694          33,694
   57   FUELS SUPPORT EQUIPMENT (FSE)...           1,777           1,777
   58   BASE MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT              31,620          31,620
         EQUIPMENT......................
        SPECIAL SUPPORT PROJECTS
   61   DCGS-AF.........................          18,700          18,700
        SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS
   65   SPARES AND REPAIR PARTS.........           4,000           4,000
        TOTAL OTHER PROCUREMENT, AIR             355,339         355,339
         FORCE..........................
 
        PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
   16   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM                 6,120           6,120
         NETWORK........................
        MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DEFENSE THREAT
         REDUCTION AGENCY
   30   COUNTER IMPROVISED THREAT                  2,540           2,540
         TECHNOLOGIES...................
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS.............           3,500           3,500
        CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
        AVIATION PROGRAMS
   56   MANNED ISR......................           5,000           5,000
   57   MC-12...........................           5,000           5,000
   60   UNMANNED ISR....................           8,207           8,207
        AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
   70   ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M.............         105,355         105,355
        OTHER PROCUREMENT PROGRAMS
   71   INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS............          16,234          16,234
   73   OTHER ITEMS <$5M................             984             984
   76   TACTICAL VEHICLES...............           2,990           2,990
   77   WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M............          32,573          32,573
   78   COMBAT MISSION REQUIREMENTS.....          10,000          10,000
   80   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS                   6,724           6,724
         INTELLIGENCE...................
   81   OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS........          53,264          53,264
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-WIDE.         258,491         258,491
 
        TOTAL PROCUREMENT...............       5,128,098       5,030,913
------------------------------------------------------------------------

        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
             Program                          FY 2021         Senate
  Line       Element           Item           Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          ARMY
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    2    0601102A        DEFENSE                 303,257         315,257
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      AI human                            [2,000]
                             performance
                             optimizatio
                             n.
         ..............      Increase in                        [10,000]
                             basic
                             research.
    3    0601103A        UNIVERSITY               67,148          67,148
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
    4    0601104A        UNIVERSITY AND           87,877          87,877
                          INDUSTRY
                          RESEARCH
                          CENTERS.
    5    0601121A        CYBER                     5,077           5,077
                          COLLABORATIVE
                          RESEARCH
                          ALLIANCE.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          463,359         475,359
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    7    0602115A        BIOMEDICAL               11,835          15,835
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Pandemic                            [4,000]
                             vaccine
                             response.
   11    0602134A        COUNTER                   2,000           2,000
                          IMPROVISED-
                          THREAT
                          ADVANCED
                          STUDIES.
   12    0602141A        LETHALITY                42,425          45,425
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Hybrid                              [3,000]
                             additive
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
   13    0602142A        ARMY APPLIED             30,757          33,757
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Pathfinder                          [3,000]
                             Air Assault.
   14    0602143A        SOLDIER                 125,435         135,935
                          LETHALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Harnessing                          [2,500]
                             Emerging
                             Research
                             Opportuniti
                             es to
                             Empower
                             Soldiers
                             Program.
         ..............      Metal-based                         [3,000]
                             display
                             technologie
                             s.
         ..............      Pathfinder                          [5,000]
                             Airborne.
   15    0602144A        GROUND                   28,047          30,047
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Ground                              [2,000]
                             technology
                             advanced
                             manufacturi
                             ng,
                             materials
                             and process
                             initiative.
   16    0602145A        NEXT GENERATION         217,565         227,565
                          COMBAT VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Ground                              [2,000]
                             combat
                             vehicle
                             platform
                             electrifica
                             tion.
         ..............      Immersive                           [5,000]
                             virtual
                             modeling
                             and
                             simulation
                             techniques.
         ..............      Next                                [3,000]
                             Generation
                             Combat
                             Vehicle
                             modeling
                             and
                             simulation.
   17    0602146A        NETWORK C3I             114,404         126,404
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Backpackabl                         [5,000]
                             e
                             Communicati
                             ons
                             Intelligenc
                             e System.
         ..............      Defense                             [3,000]
                             resiliency
                             platform
                             against
                             extreme
                             cold
                             weather.
         ..............      Multi-drone                         [2,000]
                             multi-
                             sensor ISR
                             capability.
         ..............      Quantum                             [2,000]
                             computing
                             base
                             materials
                             optimizatio
                             n.
   18    0602147A        LONG RANGE               60,553          67,553
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Composite                           [7,000]
                             artillery
                             tube and
                             propulsion
                             prototyping.
   19    0602148A        FUTURE VERTICLE          96,484          96,484
                          LIFT
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   20    0602150A        AIR AND MISSILE          56,298          66,298
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Counter                             [5,000]
                             unmanned
                             aerial
                             systems
                             threat R&D.
         ..............      Counter                             [5,000]
                             unmanned
                             aircraft
                             systems
                             research.
   22    0602213A        C3I APPLIED              18,816          18,816
                          CYBER.
   40    0602785A        MANPOWER/                20,766          20,766
                          PERSONNEL/
                          TRAINING
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   42    0602787A        MEDICAL                  95,496          97,496
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Research                            [2,000]
                             for
                             coronavirus
                             vaccine.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                920,881         984,381
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   44    0603002A        MEDICAL                  38,896          38,896
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   49    0603007A        MANPOWER,                11,659          11,659
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          TRAINING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   52    0603115A        MEDICAL                  27,723          27,723
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   53    0603117A        ARMY ADVANCED            62,663          62,663
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   54    0603118A        SOLDIER                 109,608         111,608
                          LETHALITY
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      3D advanced                         [2,000]
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
   55    0603119A        GROUND ADVANCED          14,795          20,795
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Cybersecuri                         [3,000]
                             ty for
                             industrial
                             control
                             systems and
                             building
                             automation.
         ..............      Graphene                            [3,000]
                             application
                             s for
                             military
                             engineering.
   59    0603134A        COUNTER                  25,000          25,000
                          IMPROVISED-
                          THREAT
                          SIMULATION.
   63    0603457A        C3I CYBER                23,357          23,357
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   64    0603461A        HIGH                    188,024         193,024
                          PERFORMANCE
                          COMPUTING
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      High                                [5,000]
                             performance
                             computing
                             modernizati
                             on.
   65    0603462A        NEXT GENERATION         199,358         226,858
                          COMBAT VEHICLE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Carbon                             [10,000]
                             fiber and
                             graphitic
                             composites.
         ..............      Cyber and                           [5,000]
                             connected
                             vehicle
                             innovation
                             research.
         ..............      Small unit                          [7,500]
                             ground
                             robotic
                             capabilitie
                             s.
         ..............      Virtual                             [5,000]
                             experimenta
                             tions
                             enhancement.
   66    0603463A        NETWORK C3I             158,608         158,608
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   67    0603464A        LONG RANGE              121,060         124,060
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Hyper                               [3,000]
                             velocity
                             projectile-
                             -extended
                             range
                             technologie
                             s.
   68    0603465A        FUTURE VERTICAL         156,194         156,194
                          LIFT ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   69    0603466A        AIR AND MISSILE          58,130          73,630
                          DEFENSE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Electromagn                         [5,000]
                             etic
                             effects
                             research to
                             support
                             fires and
                             AMD CFTs.
         ..............      High-energy                        [10,500]
                             laser
                             system
                             characteriz
                             ation lab.
   77    0603920A        HUMANITARIAN              8,515           8,515
                          DEMINING.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,203,590       1,262,590
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   78    0603305A        ARMY MISSLE              11,062          14,062
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
         ..............      Hypersonic                          [3,000]
                             hot air
                             tunnel test
                             environment.
   79    0603308A        ARMY SPACE               26,230          26,230
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
   80    0603327A        AIR AND MISSILE          26,482          26,482
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          ENGINEERING.
   81    0603619A        LANDMINE                 64,092          64,092
                          WARFARE AND
                          BARRIER--ADV
                          DEV.
   83    0603639A        TANK AND MEDIUM          92,753          92,753
                          CALIBER
                          AMMUNITION.
   84    0603645A        ARMORED SYSTEM          151,478         151,478
                          MODERNIZATION-
                          -ADV DEV.
   85    0603747A        SOLDIER SUPPORT           5,841           5,841
                          AND
                          SURVIVABILITY.
   86    0603766A        TACTICAL                194,775         194,775
                          ELECTRONIC
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM--ADV
                          DEV.
   87    0603774A        NIGHT VISION             24,316          24,316
                          SYSTEMS
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   88    0603779A        ENVIRONMENTAL            13,387          13,387
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY--DE
                          M/VAL.
   89    0603790A        NATO RESEARCH             4,762           4,762
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   90    0603801A        AVIATION--ADV           647,937         652,937
                          DEV.
         ..............      Future Long                         [5,000]
                             Range
                             Assault
                             Aircraft
                             (FLRAA).
   91    0603804A        LOGISTICS AND             4,761           4,761
                          ENGINEER
                          EQUIPMENT--ADV
                          DEV.
   92    0603807A        MEDICAL                  28,520          28,520
                          SYSTEMS--ADV
                          DEV.
   93    0603827A        SOLDIER                  26,138          26,138
                          SYSTEMS--ADVAN
                          CED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   94    0604017A        ROBOTICS                121,207         121,207
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   96    0604021A        ELECTRONIC               22,840          22,840
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MATURATION
                          (MIP).
   97    0604035A        LOW EARTH ORBIT          22,678          22,678
                          (LEO)
                          SATELLITE
                          CAPABILITY.
   98    0604100A        ANALYSIS OF              10,082          10,082
                          ALTERNATIVES.
   99    0604101A        SMALL UNMANNED            1,378           1,378
                          AERIAL VEHICLE
                          (SUAV) (6.4).
  100    0604113A        FUTURE TACTICAL          40,083          40,083
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM (FTUAS).
  101    0604114A        LOWER TIER AIR          376,373         376,373
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          (LTAMD) SENSOR.
  102    0604115A        TECHNOLOGY              156,834         146,834
                          MATURATION
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      OpFires                           [-10,000]
                             lack of
                             transition
                             pathway.
  103    0604117A        MANEUVER--SHORT           4,995           4,995
                          RANGE AIR
                          DEFENSE (M-
                          SHORAD).
  105    0604119A        ARMY ADVANCED           170,490         170,490
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPING.
  106    0604120A        ASSURED                 128,125         128,125
                          POSITIONING,
                          NAVIGATION AND
                          TIMING (PNT).
  107    0604121A        SYNTHETIC               129,547         129,547
                          TRAINING
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          REFINEMENT &
                          PROTOTYPING.
  108    0604134A        COUNTER                  13,831          13,831
                          IMPROVISED-
                          THREAT
                          DEMONSTRATION,
                          PROTOTYPE
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          AND TESTING.
  109    0604182A        HYPERSONICS....         801,417         796,417
         ..............      Lack of                            [-5,000]
                             hypersonic
                             prototyping
                             coordinatio
                             n.
  111    0604403A        FUTURE                    7,992           7,992
                          INTERCEPTOR.
  112    0604541A        UNIFIED NETWORK          40,677          40,677
                          TRANSPORT.
  115    0305251A        CYBERSPACE               50,525          50,525
                          OPERATIONS
                          FORCES AND
                          FORCE SUPPORT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              3,421,608       3,414,608
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
  118    0604201A        AIRCRAFT                  2,764           2,764
                          AVIONICS.
  119    0604270A        ELECTRONIC               62,426          62,426
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  121    0604601A        INFANTRY                 91,574          91,574
                          SUPPORT
                          WEAPONS.
  122    0604604A        MEDIUM TACTICAL           8,523           8,523
                          VEHICLES.
  123    0604611A        JAVELIN........           7,493           7,493
  124    0604622A        FAMILY OF HEAVY          24,792          24,792
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLES.
  125    0604633A        AIR TRAFFIC               3,511           3,511
                          CONTROL.
  126    0604642A        LIGHT TACTICAL            1,976           1,976
                          WHEELED
                          VEHICLES.
  127    0604645A        ARMORED SYSTEMS         135,488         135,488
                          MODERNIZATION
                          (ASM)--ENG DEV.
  128    0604710A        NIGHT VISION             61,445          61,445
                          SYSTEMS--ENG
                          DEV.
  129    0604713A        COMBAT FEEDING,           2,814           2,814
                          CLOTHING, AND
                          EQUIPMENT.
  130    0604715A        NON-SYSTEM               28,036          28,036
                          TRAINING
                          DEVICES--ENG
                          DEV.
  131    0604741A        AIR DEFENSE              43,651          83,651
                          COMMAND,
                          CONTROL AND
                          INTELLIGENCE--
                          ENG DEV.
         ..............      Joint                              [17,500]
                             Counter-UAS
                             Office
                             acceleratio
                             n.
         ..............      Joint                               [7,500]
                             Counter-UAS
                             Office
                             SOCOM
                             advanced
                             capabilitie
                             s.
         ..............      Joint                              [15,000]
                             Counter-UAS
                             Office
                             SOCOM
                             demonstrati
                             ons.
  132    0604742A        CONSTRUCTIVE             10,150          10,150
                          SIMULATION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  133    0604746A        AUTOMATIC TEST            5,578           5,578
                          EQUIPMENT
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  134    0604760A        DISTRIBUTIVE              7,892           7,892
                          INTERACTIVE
                          SIMULATIONS
                          (DIS)--ENG DEV.
  135    0604768A        BRILLIANT ANTI-          24,975          24,975
                          ARMOR
                          SUBMUNITION
                          (BAT).
  136    0604780A        COMBINED ARMS             3,568           3,568
                          TACTICAL
                          TRAINER (CATT)
                          CORE.
  137    0604798A        BRIGADE                  19,268          19,268
                          ANALYSIS,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND EVALUATION.
  138    0604802A        WEAPONS AND             265,811         266,611
                          MUNITIONS--ENG
                          DEV.
         ..............      Increase                              [800]
                             NGSW
                             soldier
                             touchpoints.
  139    0604804A        LOGISTICS AND            49,694          49,694
                          ENGINEER
                          EQUIPMENT--ENG
                          DEV.
  140    0604805A        COMMAND,                 11,079          11,079
                          CONTROL,
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS--ENG
                          DEV.
  141    0604807A        MEDICAL                  49,870          49,870
                          MATERIEL/
                          MEDICAL
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          EQUIPMENT--ENG
                          DEV.
  142    0604808A        LANDMINE                  9,589           9,589
                          WARFARE/
                          BARRIER--ENG
                          DEV.
  143    0604818A        ARMY TACTICAL           162,513         162,513
                          COMMAND &
                          CONTROL
                          HARDWARE &
                          SOFTWARE.
  144    0604820A        RADAR                   109,259         109,259
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  145    0604822A        GENERAL FUND             21,201          21,201
                          ENTERPRISE
                          BUSINESS
                          SYSTEM (GFEBS).
  146    0604823A        FIREFINDER.....          20,008          20,008
  147    0604827A        SOLDIER                   6,534           6,534
                          SYSTEMS--WARRI
                          OR DEM/VAL.
  148    0604852A        SUITE OF                 82,459         129,459
                          SURVIVABILITY
                          ENHANCEMENT
                          SYSTEMS--EMD.
         ..............      Bradley and                        [47,000]
                             Stryker APS.
  149    0604854A        ARTILLERY                11,611          11,611
                          SYSTEMS--EMD.
  150    0605013A        INFORMATION             142,678         147,678
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Integrated                          [5,000]
                             data
                             software
                             pilot
                             program.
  151    0605018A        INTEGRATED              115,286         115,286
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          PAY SYSTEM-
                          ARMY (IPPS-A).
  152    0605028A        ARMORED MULTI-           96,594          96,594
                          PURPOSE
                          VEHICLE (AMPV).
  154    0605030A        JOINT TACTICAL           16,264          16,264
                          NETWORK CENTER
                          (JTNC).
  155    0605031A        JOINT TACTICAL           31,696          31,696
                          NETWORK (JTN).
  157    0605033A        GROUND-BASED              5,976           5,976
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM--EXPEDI
                          TIONARY (GBOSS-
                          E).
  159    0605035A        COMMON INFRARED          23,321          23,321
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (CIRCM).
  161    0605038A        NUCLEAR                   4,846           4,846
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          CHEMICAL
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          VEHICLE
                          (NBCRV) SENSOR
                          SUITE.
  162    0605041A        DEFENSIVE CYBER          28,544          16,544
                          TOOL
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Army Cyber                        [-12,000]
                             SU program.
  163    0605042A        TACTICAL                 28,178          28,178
                          NETWORK RADIO
                          SYSTEMS (LOW-
                          TIER).
  164    0605047A        CONTRACT                 22,860          22,860
                          WRITING SYSTEM.
  166    0605051A        AIRCRAFT                 35,893          35,893
                          SURVIVABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  167    0605052A        INDIRECT FIRE           235,770         187,970
                          PROTECTION
                          CAPABILITY INC
                          2--BLOCK 1.
         ..............      Army-                             [-47,800]
                             identified
                             funding
                             early to
                             need.
  168    0605053A        GROUND ROBOTICS          13,710          13,710
  169    0605054A        EMERGING                294,739         294,739
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          INITIATIVES.
  170    0605145A        MEDICAL                     954             954
                          PRODUCTS AND
                          SUPPORT
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  171    0605203A        ARMY SYSTEM             150,201         150,201
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  172    0605205A        SMALL UNMANNED            5,999           5,999
                          AERIAL VEHICLE
                          (SUAV) (6.5).
  174    0605450A        JOINT AIR-TO-             8,891           8,891
                          GROUND MISSILE
                          (JAGM).
  175    0605457A        ARMY INTEGRATED         193,929         193,929
                          AIR AND
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          (AIAMD).
  176    0605625A        MANNED GROUND           327,732         247,732
                          VEHICLE.
         ..............      OMFV                              [-80,000]
                             program
                             reset.
  177    0605766A        NATIONAL                  7,670           7,670
                          CAPABILITIES
                          INTEGRATION
                          (MIP).
  178    0605812A        JOINT LIGHT               1,742           1,742
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLE (JLTV)
                          ENGINEERING
                          AND
                          MANUFACTURING
                          DEVELOPMENT PH.
  179    0605830A        AVIATION GROUND           1,467           1,467
                          SUPPORT
                          EQUIPMENT.
  180    0303032A        TROJAN--RH12...           3,451           3,451
  183    0304270A        ELECTRONIC               55,855          55,855
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       3,199,798       3,152,798
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  185    0604256A        THREAT                   14,515          14,515
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  186    0604258A        TARGET SYSTEMS           10,668          10,668
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  187    0604759A        MAJOR T&E               106,270         106,270
                          INVESTMENT.
  188    0605103A        RAND ARROYO              13,481          13,481
                          CENTER.
  189    0605301A        ARMY KWAJALEIN          231,824         231,824
                          ATOLL.
  190    0605326A        CONCEPTS                 54,898          54,898
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N PROGRAM.
  192    0605601A        ARMY TEST               350,359         365,359
                          RANGES AND
                          FACILITIES.
         ..............      Program                            [15,000]
                             increase--A
                             rmy
                             directed
                             energy T&E.
  193    0605602A        ARMY TECHNICAL           48,475          48,475
                          TEST
                          INSTRUMENTATIO
                          N AND TARGETS.
  194    0605604A        SURVIVABILITY/           36,001          36,001
                          LETHALITY
                          ANALYSIS.
  195    0605606A        AIRCRAFT                  2,736           2,736
                          CERTIFICATION.
  196    0605702A        METEOROLOGICAL            6,488           6,488
                          SUPPORT TO
                          RDT&E
                          ACTIVITIES.
  197    0605706A        MATERIEL                 21,859          21,859
                          SYSTEMS
                          ANALYSIS.
  198    0605709A        EXPLOITATION OF           7,936           7,936
                          FOREIGN ITEMS.
  199    0605712A        SUPPORT OF               54,470          54,470
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TESTING.
  200    0605716A        ARMY EVALUATION          63,141          63,141
                          CENTER.
  201    0605718A        ARMY MODELING &           2,572           2,572
                          SIM X-CMD
                          COLLABORATION
                          & INTEG.
  202    0605801A        PROGRAMWIDE              87,472          87,472
                          ACTIVITIES.
  203    0605803A        TECHNICAL                26,244          26,244
                          INFORMATION
                          ACTIVITIES.
  204    0605805A        MUNITIONS                40,133          40,133
                          STANDARDIZATIO
                          N,
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          AND SAFETY.
  205    0605857A        ENVIRONMENTAL             1,780           1,780
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MGMT SUPPORT.
  206    0605898A        ARMY DIRECT              55,045          55,045
                          REPORT
                          HEADQUARTERS--
                          R&D - MHA.
  208    0606002A        RONALD REAGAN            71,306          71,306
                          BALLISTIC
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE TEST
                          SITE.
  209    0606003A        COUNTERINTEL              1,063           1,063
                          AND HUMAN
                          INTEL
                          MODERNIZATION.
  210    0606105A        MEDICAL PROGRAM-         19,891          19,891
                          WIDE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  211    0606942A        ASSESSMENTS AND           4,496           4,496
                          EVALUATIONS
                          CYBER
                          VULNERABILITIE
                          S.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,333,123       1,348,123
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  214    0603778A        MLRS PRODUCT             10,157          10,157
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  216    0605024A        ANTI-TAMPER               8,682           8,682
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
  217    0607131A        WEAPONS AND              20,409          20,409
                          MUNITIONS
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  219    0607134A        LONG RANGE              122,733         115,233
                          PRECISION
                          FIRES (LRPF).
         ..............      Excess                             [-7,500]
                             funds due
                             to second
                             vendor
                             dropped.
  221    0607136A        BLACKHAWK                11,236          11,236
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  222    0607137A        CHINOOK PRODUCT          46,091          46,091
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  224    0607139A        IMPROVED                249,257         249,257
                          TURBINE ENGINE
                          PROGRAM.
  225    0607142A        AVIATION ROCKET          17,155          17,155
                          SYSTEM PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  226    0607143A        UNMANNED                  7,743           7,743
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM
                          UNIVERSAL
                          PRODUCTS.
  227    0607145A        APACHE FUTURE            77,177          77,177
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  228    0607150A        INTEL CYBER              14,652          14,652
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  229    0607312A        ARMY                     35,851          35,851
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  230    0607665A        FAMILY OF                 1,324           1,324
                          BIOMETRICS.
  231    0607865A        PATRIOT PRODUCT         187,840         187,840
                          IMPROVEMENT.
  232    0203728A        JOINT AUTOMATED          44,691          44,691
                          DEEP OPERATION
                          COORDINATION
                          SYSTEM
                          (JADOCS).
  233    0203735A        COMBAT VEHICLE          268,919         268,919
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  234    0203743A        155MM SELF-             427,254         427,254
                          PROPELLED
                          HOWITZER
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  235    0203744A        AIRCRAFT                 11,688          11,688
                          MODIFICATIONS/
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  236    0203752A        AIRCRAFT ENGINE              80              80
                          COMPONENT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  237    0203758A        DIGITIZATION...           4,516           4,516
  238    0203801A        MISSILE/AIR               1,288           1,288
                          DEFENSE
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  239    0203802A        OTHER MISSILE            79,424          79,424
                          PRODUCT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAMS.
  243    0205412A        ENVIRONMENTAL               259             259
                          QUALITY
                          TECHNOLOGY--OP
                          ERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM DEV.
  244    0205456A        LOWER TIER AIR              166             166
                          AND MISSILE
                          DEFENSE (AMD)
                          SYSTEM.
  245    0205778A        GUIDED MULTIPLE-         75,575          93,075
                          LAUNCH ROCKET
                          SYSTEM (GMLRS).
         ..............      Qualificati                        [17,500]
                             on of
                             second SRM
                             source.
  246    0208053A        JOINT TACTICAL            9,510           9,510
                          GROUND SYSTEM.
  249    0303140A        INFORMATION              29,270          29,270
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  250    0303141A        GLOBAL COMBAT            86,908          86,908
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
  251    0303142A        SATCOM GROUND            18,684          18,684
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          (SPACE).
  256    0305179A        INTEGRATED                  467             467
                          BROADCAST
                          SERVICE (IBS).
  257    0305204A        TACTICAL                  4,051           4,051
                          UNMANNED
                          AERIAL
                          VEHICLES.
  258    0305206A        AIRBORNE                 13,283          13,283
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  259    0305208A        DISTRIBUTED              47,204          47,204
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  264    0708045A        END ITEM                 61,012          78,512
                          INDUSTRIAL
                          PREPAREDNESS
                          ACTIVITIES.
         ..............      Functional                          [7,500]
                             fabrics
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
         ..............      Nanoscale                           [5,000]
                             materials
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
         ..............      Tungsten                            [5,000]
                             manufacturi
                             ng for
                             armanents.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED                3,983           3,983
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,998,539       2,026,039
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS
  267    0608041A        DEFENSIVE                46,445          46,445
                          CYBER--SOFTWAR
                          E PROTOTYPE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                 46,445          46,445
                          SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      12,587,343      12,710,343
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          ARMY.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          NAVY
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601103N        UNIVERSITY              116,816         118,816
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      Defense                             [2,000]
                             University
                             Research
                             and
                             Instrumenta
                             tion
                             Program.
    2    0601152N        IN-HOUSE                 19,113          19,113
                          LABORATORY
                          INDEPENDENT
                          RESEARCH.
    3    0601153N        DEFENSE                 467,158         480,158
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Increase in                        [10,000]
                             basic
                             research.
         ..............      Predictive                          [3,000]
                             modeling
                             for
                             undersea
                             vehicles.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          603,087         618,087
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    4    0602114N        POWER                    17,792          17,792
                          PROJECTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    5    0602123N        FORCE                   122,281         140,281
                          PROTECTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Direct air                          [8,000]
                             capture and
                             blue carbon
                             removal
                             technology
                             program.
         ..............      Electric                            [2,000]
                             propulsion
                             for
                             military
                             craft and
                             advanced
                             planning
                             hulls.
         ..............      Expeditiona                         [5,000]
                             ry unmanned
                             systems
                             launch and
                             recovery.
         ..............      Testbed for                         [3,000]
                             autonomous
                             ship
                             systems.
    6    0602131M        MARINE CORPS             50,623          53,623
                          LANDING FORCE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Interdiscip                         [3,000]
                             linary
                             cybersecuri
                             ty research.
    7    0602235N        COMMON PICTURE           48,001          48,001
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    8    0602236N        WARFIGHTER               67,765          74,765
                          SUSTAINMENT
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Humanoid                            [4,000]
                             robotics
                             research.
         ..............      Social                              [3,000]
                             networks
                             and
                             computation
                             al social
                             science.
    9    0602271N        ELECTROMAGNETIC          84,994          84,994
                          SYSTEMS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   10    0602435N        OCEAN                    63,392          63,392
                          WARFIGHTING
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   11    0602651M        JOINT NON-                6,343           6,343
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   12    0602747N        UNDERSEA                 56,397          63,897
                          WARFARE
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Navy and                            [7,500]
                             academia
                             submarine
                             partnership
                             s.
   13    0602750N        FUTURE NAVAL            167,590         167,590
                          CAPABILITIES
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   14    0602782N        MINE AND                 30,715          30,715
                          EXPEDITIONARY
                          WARFARE
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   15    0602792N        INNOVATIVE              160,537         167,837
                          NAVAL
                          PROTOTYPES
                          (INP) APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............      Thermoplast                         [7,300]
                             ic
                             materials.
   16    0602861N        SCIENCE AND              76,745          76,745
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT--ON
                          R FIELD
                          ACITIVITIES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                953,175         995,975
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   17    0603123N        FORCE                    24,410          24,410
                          PROTECTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   18    0603271N        ELECTROMAGNETIC           8,008           8,008
                          SYSTEMS
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   19    0603640M        USMC ADVANCED           219,045         222,045
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATION
                          (ATD).
         ..............      Mission                             [3,000]
                             planning
                             advanced
                             technology
                             demonstrati
                             on.
   20    0603651M        JOINT NON-               13,301          13,301
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   21    0603673N        FUTURE NAVAL            246,054         246,054
                          CAPABILITIES
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   22    0603680N        MANUFACTURING            60,122          60,122
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   23    0603729N        WARFIGHTER                4,851           4,851
                          PROTECTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   24    0603758N        NAVY                     40,709          40,709
                          WARFIGHTING
                          EXPERIMENTS
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   25    0603782N        MINE AND                  1,948           1,948
                          EXPEDITIONARY
                          WARFARE
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   26    0603801N        INNOVATIVE              141,948         141,948
                          NAVAL
                          PROTOTYPES
                          (INP) ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                760,396         763,396
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   27    0603178N        MEDIUM AND              464,042               0
                          LARGE UNMANNED
                          SURFACE
                          VEHICLES
                          (USVS).
         ..............      Excess                           [-464,042]
                             procurement
                             ahead of
                             satisfactor
                             y testing.
   28    0603207N        AIR/OCEAN                35,386          35,386
                          TACTICAL
                          APPLICATIONS.
   29    0603216N        AVIATION                 13,428          13,428
                          SURVIVABILITY.
   30    0603239N        ISO NAVAL                 2,350           2,350
                          CONSTRUCTION
                          FORCES.
   31    0603251N        AIRCRAFT                    418             418
                          SYSTEMS.
   32    0603254N        ASW SYSTEMS              15,719          15,719
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   33    0603261N        TACTICAL                  3,411           3,411
                          AIRBORNE
                          RECONNAISSANCE.
   34    0603382N        ADVANCED COMBAT          70,218          56,118
                          SYSTEMS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Project                            [-7,000]
                             3416:
                             HIJENKS
                             insufficien
                             t schedule
                             justificati
                             on.
         ..............      Project                            [-7,100]
                             3422: SHARC
                             excess
                             platforms
                             ahead of
                             satisfactor
                             y testing.
   35    0603502N        SURFACE AND              52,358          24,158
                          SHALLOW WATER
                          MINE
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S.
         ..............      Project                           [-28,200]
                             2989:
                             Barracuda
                             program
                             delay.
   36    0603506N        SURFACE SHIP             12,816          12,816
                          TORPEDO
                          DEFENSE.
   37    0603512N        CARRIER SYSTEMS           7,559           7,559
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   38    0603525N        PILOT FISH.....         358,757         358,757
   39    0603527N        RETRACT LARCH..          12,562          12,562
   40    0603536N        RETRACT JUNIPER         148,000         148,000
   41    0603542N        RADIOLOGICAL                778             778
                          CONTROL.
   42    0603553N        SURFACE ASW....           1,161           1,161
   43    0603561N        ADVANCED                185,356         195,356
                          SUBMARINE
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Out-of-                            [20,000]
                             autoclave
                             submarine
                             technology
                             development.
         ..............      Project                           [-10,000]
                             9710: EDMs
                             early to
                             need.
   44    0603562N        SUBMARINE                10,528          10,528
                          TACTICAL
                          WARFARE
                          SYSTEMS.
   45    0603563N        SHIP CONCEPT            126,396          63,296
                          ADVANCED
                          DESIGN.
         ..............      Project                           [-19,100]
                             2196:
                             Future
                             surface
                             combatant
                             early to
                             need.
         ..............      Project                            [16,000]
                             3161:
                             Program
                             increase
                             for CBM+
                             initiative.
         ..............      Project                           [-30,000]
                             4044:
                             Medium
                             amphibious
                             ship early
                             to need.
         ..............      Project                           [-30,000]
                             4045:
                             Medium
                             logistics
                             ship early
                             to need.
   46    0603564N        SHIP                     70,270          28,970
                          PRELIMINARY
                          DESIGN &
                          FEASIBILITY
                          STUDIES.
         ..............      Project                           [-41,300]
                             0411: LSC
                             preliminary
                             design and
                             CDD early
                             to need.
   47    0603570N        ADVANCED                149,188         149,188
                          NUCLEAR POWER
                          SYSTEMS.
   48    0603573N        ADVANCED                 38,449         238,449
                          SURFACE
                          MACHINERY
                          SYSTEMS.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [75,000]
                             ITF to
                             achieve
                             full test
                             capability
                             in FY23.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [10,000]
                             qualificati
                             on of
                             silicon
                             carbide
                             power
                             modules.
         ..............      USV                                [45,000]
                             autonomy
                             development.
         ..............      USV engine                         [70,000]
                             and
                             generator
                             qualificati
                             on testing.
   49    0603576N        CHALK EAGLE....          71,181          71,181
   50    0603581N        LITTORAL COMBAT          32,178          27,178
                          SHIP (LCS).
         ..............      Project                            [-5,000]
                             3096:
                             Available
                             prior year
                             funds.
   51    0603582N        COMBAT SYSTEM            17,843          17,843
                          INTEGRATION.
   52    0603595N        OHIO                    317,196         317,196
                          REPLACEMENT.
   53    0603596N        LCS MISSION              67,875          32,875
                          MODULES.
         ..............      Project                           [-20,000]
                             2550: LCS
                             MCM MP
                             outdated
                             IMS and
                             TEMP.
         ..............      Project                           [-15,000]
                             2551: LCS
                             ASW MP
                             available
                             prior year
                             funds due
                             to testing
                             delays.
   54    0603597N        AUTOMATED TEST            4,797           4,797
                          AND ANALYSIS.
   55    0603599N        FRIGATE                  82,309          82,309
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   56    0603609N        CONVENTIONAL              9,922           2,122
                          MUNITIONS.
         ..............      Project                            [-7,800]
                             0363:
                             Insufficien
                             t
                             justificati
                             on.
   57    0603635M        MARINE CORPS            189,603         189,603
                          GROUND COMBAT/
                          SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   58    0603654N        JOINT SERVICE            43,084          43,084
                          EXPLOSIVE
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   59    0603713N        OCEAN                     6,346           6,346
                          ENGINEERING
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   60    0603721N        ENVIRONMENTAL            20,601          20,601
                          PROTECTION.
   61    0603724N        NAVY ENERGY              23,422          23,422
                          PROGRAM.
   62    0603725N        FACILITIES                4,664           4,664
                          IMPROVEMENT.
   63    0603734N        CHALK CORAL....         545,763         545,763
   64    0603739N        NAVY LOGISTIC             3,884           3,884
                          PRODUCTIVITY.
   65    0603746N        RETRACT MAPLE..         353,226         353,226
   66    0603748N        LINK PLUMERIA..         544,388         544,388
   67    0603751N        RETRACT ELM....          86,730          86,730
   68    0603764M        LINK EVERGREEN.         236,234         236,234
   70    0603790N        NATO RESEARCH             6,880           6,880
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   71    0603795N        LAND ATTACK              10,578          10,578
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   72    0603851M        JOINT NON-               28,435          28,435
                          LETHAL WEAPONS
                          TESTING.
   73    0603860N        JOINT PRECISION          33,612          33,612
                          APPROACH AND
                          LANDING
                          SYSTEMS--DEM/
                          VAL.
   74    0603925N        DIRECTED ENERGY         128,845         113,845
                          AND ELECTRIC
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
         ..............      Project                           [-15,000]
                             3402:
                             Excess
                             engineering
                             and
                             sustainment
                             support.
   75    0604014N        F/A -18                  84,190          84,190
                          INFRARED
                          SEARCH AND
                          TRACK (IRST).
   76    0604027N        DIGITAL WARFARE          54,699          54,699
                          OFFICE.
   77    0604028N        SMALL AND                53,942          53,942
                          MEDIUM
                          UNMANNED
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLES.
   78    0604029N        UNMANNED                 40,060          40,060
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLE CORE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
   79    0604030N        RAPID                    12,100          12,100
                          PROTOTYPING,
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N AND
                          DEMONSTRATION..
   80    0604031N        LARGE UNMANNED           78,122          42,122
                          UNDERSEA
                          VEHICLES.
         ..............      Project                           [-36,000]
                             2094:
                             Excess
                             procurement
                             ahead of
                             phase 1
                             testing.
   81    0604112N        GERALD R. FORD          107,895         107,895
                          CLASS NUCLEAR
                          AIRCRAFT
                          CARRIER (CVN
                          78--80).
   82    0604126N        LITTORAL                 17,366          17,366
                          AIRBORNE MCM.
   83    0604127N        SURFACE MINE             18,754          18,754
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S.
   84    0604272N        TACTICAL AIR             59,776          59,776
                          DIRECTIONAL
                          INFRARED
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (TADIRCM).
   86    0604292N        FUTURE VERTICAL           5,097           5,097
                          LIFT (MARITIME
                          STRIKE).
   87    0604320M        RAPID                     3,664           3,664
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          CAPABILITY
                          PROTOTYPE.
   88    0604454N        LX (R).........          10,203          10,203
   89    0604536N        ADVANCED                115,858          95,858
                          UNDERSEA
                          PROTOTYPING.
         ..............      Orca UUV                          [-10,000]
                             testing
                             delay and
                             uncertified
                             test
                             strategy.
         ..............      Snakehead                         [-10,000]
                             UUV
                             uncertified
                             test
                             strategy.
   90    0604636N        COUNTER                  14,259          14,259
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEMS (C-
                          UAS).
   91    0604659N        PRECISION             1,102,387       1,045,387
                          STRIKE WEAPONS
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Lack of                            [-5,000]
                             hypersonic
                             prototyping
                             coordinatio
                             n.
         ..............      Project                           [-52,000]
                             3334:
                             Excess
                             Virginia-
                             class CPS
                             modificatio
                             n and
                             installatio
                             n costs.
   92    0604707N        SPACE AND                 7,657           7,657
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE (SEW)
                          ARCHITECTURE/
                          ENGINEERING
                          SUPPORT.
   93    0604786N        OFFENSIVE ANTI-          35,750          35,750
                          SURFACE
                          WARFARE WEAPON
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   94    0303354N        ASW SYSTEMS               9,151           9,151
                          DEVELOPMENT--M
                          IP.
   95    0304240M        ADVANCED                 22,589          22,589
                          TACTICAL
                          UNMANNED
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SYSTEM.
   97    0304270N        ELECTRONIC                  809             809
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT--M
                          IP.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              6,503,074       5,926,532
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   98    0603208N        TRAINING SYSTEM           4,332           4,332
                          AIRCRAFT.
   99    0604212N        OTHER HELO               18,133          23,133
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Program                             [5,000]
                             increase
                             for Attack
                             and Utility
                             Replacement
                             Aircraft.
  100    0604214M        AV-8B AIRCRAFT--         20,054          20,054
                          ENG DEV.
  101    0604215N        STANDARDS                 4,237           4,237
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  102    0604216N        MULTI-MISSION            27,340          27,340
                          HELICOPTER
                          UPGRADE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  104    0604221N        P-3                         606             606
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
  105    0604230N        WARFARE SUPPORT           9,065           9,065
                          SYSTEM.
  106    0604231N        TACTICAL                 97,968          97,968
                          COMMAND SYSTEM.
  107    0604234N        ADVANCED                309,373         309,373
                          HAWKEYE.
  108    0604245M        H-1 UPGRADES...          62,310          62,310
  109    0604261N        ACOUSTIC SEARCH          47,182          47,182
                          SENSORS.
  110    0604262N        V-22A..........         132,624         132,624
  111    0604264N        AIR CREW                 21,445          21,445
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  112    0604269N        EA-18..........         106,134         106,134
  113    0604270N        ELECTRONIC              134,194         134,194
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  114    0604273M        EXECUTIVE HELO           99,321          99,321
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  115    0604274N        NEXT GENERATION         477,680         477,680
                          JAMMER (NGJ).
  116    0604280N        JOINT TACTICAL          232,818         232,818
                          RADIO SYSTEM--
                          NAVY (JTRS-
                          NAVY).
  117    0604282N        NEXT GENERATION         170,039         170,039
                          JAMMER (NGJ)
                          INCREMENT II.
  118    0604307N        SURFACE                 403,712         403,712
                          COMBATANT
                          COMBAT SYSTEM
                          ENGINEERING.
  119    0604311N        LPD-17 CLASS                945             945
                          SYSTEMS
                          INTEGRATION.
  120    0604329N        SMALL DIAMETER           62,488          62,488
                          BOMB (SDB).
  121    0604366N        STANDARD                386,225         386,225
                          MISSILE
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  122    0604373N        AIRBORNE MCM...          10,909          10,909
  123    0604378N        NAVAL                    44,548          44,548
                          INTEGRATED
                          FIRE CONTROL--
                          COUNTER AIR
                          SYSTEMS
                          ENGINEERING.
  124    0604419N        ADVANCED                 13,673          13,673
                          SENSORS
                          APPLICATION
                          PROGRAM (ASAP).
  125    0604501N        ADVANCED ABOVE           87,809          87,809
                          WATER SENSORS.
  126    0604503N        SSN-688 AND              93,097          93,097
                          TRIDENT
                          MODERNIZATION.
  127    0604504N        AIR CONTROL....          38,863          38,863
  128    0604512N        SHIPBOARD                 9,593           9,593
                          AVIATION
                          SYSTEMS.
  129    0604518N        COMBAT                   12,718          12,718
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER
                          CONVERSION.
  130    0604522N        AIR AND MISSILE          78,319          78,319
                          DEFENSE RADAR
                          (AMDR) SYSTEM.
  131    0604530N        ADVANCED                 65,834          65,834
                          ARRESTING GEAR
                          (AAG).
  132    0604558N        NEW DESIGN SSN.         259,443         259,443
  133    0604562N        SUBMARINE                63,878          58,878
                          TACTICAL
                          WARFARE SYSTEM.
         ..............      AN/BYG-1                           [-5,000]
                             APB17 and
                             APB19
                             testing
                             delays.
  134    0604567N        SHIP CONTRACT            51,853          66,753
                          DESIGN/ LIVE
                          FIRE T&E.
         ..............      Advanced                           [14,900]
                             degaussing
                             DDG-51
                             retrofit
                             and
                             demonstrati
                             on.
  135    0604574N        NAVY TACTICAL             3,853           3,853
                          COMPUTER
                          RESOURCES.
  136    0604601N        MINE                     92,607          92,607
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  137    0604610N        LIGHTWEIGHT             146,012         116,012
                          TORPEDO
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      Project                           [-10,000]
                             1412: HAAWC
                             operational
                             testing
                             delays.
         ..............      Project                           [-20,000]
                             3418: Mk 54
                             Mod 2
                             contract
                             delays.
  138    0604654N        JOINT SERVICE             8,383           8,383
                          EXPLOSIVE
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  139    0604657M        USMC GROUND              33,784          33,784
                          COMBAT/
                          SUPPORTING
                          ARMS SYSTEMS--
                          ENG DEV.
  140    0604703N        PERSONNEL,                8,599           8,599
                          TRAINING,
                          SIMULATION,
                          AND HUMAN
                          FACTORS.
  141    0604727N        JOINT STANDOFF           73,744          73,744
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS.
  142    0604755N        SHIP SELF               157,490         157,490
                          DEFENSE
                          (DETECT &
                          CONTROL).
  143    0604756N        SHIP SELF               121,761         121,761
                          DEFENSE
                          (ENGAGE: HARD
                          KILL).
  144    0604757N        SHIP SELF                89,373          89,373
                          DEFENSE
                          (ENGAGE: SOFT
                          KILL/EW).
  145    0604761N        INTELLIGENCE             15,716          15,716
                          ENGINEERING.
  146    0604771N        MEDICAL                   2,120           2,120
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  147    0604777N        NAVIGATION/ID            50,180          50,180
                          SYSTEM.
  148    0604800M        JOINT STRIKE                561             561
                          FIGHTER (JSF)--
                          EMD.
  149    0604800N        JOINT STRIKE                250             250
                          FIGHTER (JSF)--
                          EMD.
  150    0604850N        SSN(X).........           1,000           1,000
  151    0605013M        INFORMATION                 974             974
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  152    0605013N        INFORMATION             356,173         356,173
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  153    0605024N        ANTI-TAMPER               7,810           7,810
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
  154    0605212M        CH-53K RDTE....         406,406         406,406
  155    0605215N        MISSION                  86,134          86,134
                          PLANNING.
  156    0605217N        COMMON AVIONICS          54,540          54,540
  157    0605220N        SHIP TO SHORE             5,155           5,155
                          CONNECTOR
                          (SSC).
  158    0605327N        T-AO 205 CLASS.           5,148           5,148
  159    0605414N        UNMANNED                266,970         266,970
                          CARRIER
                          AVIATION (UCA).
  160    0605450M        JOINT AIR-TO-            12,713          12,713
                          GROUND MISSILE
                          (JAGM).
  161    0605500N        MULTI-MISSION            24,424          24,424
                          MARITIME
                          AIRCRAFT (MMA).
  162    0605504N        MULTI-MISSION           182,870         182,870
                          MARITIME (MMA)
                          INCREMENT III.
  163    0605611M        MARINE CORPS             41,775          41,775
                          ASSAULT
                          VEHICLES
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  164    0605813M        JOINT LIGHT               2,541           2,541
                          TACTICAL
                          VEHICLE (JLTV)
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  165    0204202N        DDG-1000.......         208,448         208,448
  169    0304785N        TACTICAL                111,434         111,434
                          CRYPTOLOGIC
                          SYSTEMS.
  170    0306250M        CYBER                    26,173          26,173
                          OPERATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       6,263,883       6,248,783
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  171    0604256N        THREAT                   22,075          22,075
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  172    0604258N        TARGET SYSTEMS           10,224          10,224
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  173    0604759N        MAJOR T&E                85,195          85,195
                          INVESTMENT.
  175    0605152N        STUDIES AND               3,089           3,089
                          ANALYSIS
                          SUPPORT--NAVY.
  176    0605154N        CENTER FOR               43,517          43,517
                          NAVAL ANALYSES.
  179    0605804N        TECHNICAL                   932             932
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES.
  180    0605853N        MANAGEMENT,              94,297          94,297
                          TECHNICAL &
                          INTERNATIONAL
                          SUPPORT.
  181    0605856N        STRATEGIC                 3,813           3,813
                          TECHNICAL
                          SUPPORT.
  183    0605863N        RDT&E SHIP AND          104,822         104,822
                          AIRCRAFT
                          SUPPORT.
  184    0605864N        TEST AND                446,960         446,960
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  185    0605865N        OPERATIONAL              27,241          27,241
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          CAPABILITY.
  186    0605866N        NAVY SPACE AND           15,787          15,787
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE (SEW)
                          SUPPORT.
  187    0605867N        SEW                       8,559           8,559
                          SURVEILLANCE/
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SUPPORT.
  188    0605873M        MARINE CORPS             42,749          42,749
                          PROGRAM WIDE
                          SUPPORT.
  189    0605898N        MANAGEMENT HQ--          41,094          41,094
                          R&D.
  190    0606355N        WARFARE                  37,022          37,022
                          INNOVATION
                          MANAGEMENT.
  193    0305327N        INSIDER THREAT.           2,310           2,310
  194    0902498N        MANAGEMENT                1,536           1,536
                          HEADQUARTERS
                          (DEPARTMENTAL
                          SUPPORT
                          ACTIVITIES).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                991,222         991,222
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  199    0604227N        HARPOON                     697             697
                          MODIFICATIONS.
  200    0604840M        F-35 C2D2......         379,549         379,549
  201    0604840N        F-35 C2D2......         413,875         413,875
  202    0607658N        COOPERATIVE             143,667         143,667
                          ENGAGEMENT
                          CAPABILITY
                          (CEC).
  204    0101221N        STRATEGIC SUB &         173,056         173,056
                          WEAPONS SYSTEM
                          SUPPORT.
  205    0101224N        SSBN SECURITY            45,970          45,970
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
  206    0101226N        SUBMARINE                69,190          61,190
                          ACOUSTIC
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      CRAW EDM                           [-8,000]
                             (TI-2)
                             early to
                             need.
  207    0101402N        NAVY STRATEGIC           42,277          42,277
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  208    0204136N        F/A-18                  171,030         171,030
                          SQUADRONS.
  210    0204228N        SURFACE SUPPORT          33,482          33,482
  211    0204229N        TOMAHAWK AND            200,308         200,308
                          TOMAHAWK
                          MISSION
                          PLANNING
                          CENTER (TMPC).
  212    0204311N        INTEGRATED              102,975         152,975
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............      Accelerate                         [25,000]
                             sensor and
                             signal
                             processing
                             development.
         ..............      Program                            [25,000]
                             increase
                             for spiral
                             1 TRAPS
                             units.
  213    0204313N        SHIP-TOWED               10,873          10,873
                          ARRAY
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  214    0204413N        AMPHIBIOUS                1,713           6,713
                          TACTICAL
                          SUPPORT UNITS
                          (DISPLACEMENT
                          CRAFT).
         ..............      Program                             [5,000]
                             increase
                             for LCAC
                             composite
                             component
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
  215    0204460M        GROUND/AIR TASK          22,205         105,805
                          ORIENTED RADAR
                          (G/ATOR).
         ..............      Program                            [10,000]
                             increase
                             for G/ATOR
                             and SM-6
                             stand-alone
                             engagement
                             analysis.
         ..............      Program                            [73,600]
                             increase
                             for USMC G/
                             ATOR and SM-
                             6
                             demonstrati
                             on.
  216    0204571N        CONSOLIDATED             83,956          83,956
                          TRAINING
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  218    0204575N        ELECTRONIC               56,791          56,791
                          WARFARE (EW)
                          READINESS
                          SUPPORT.
  219    0205601N        HARM                    146,166         146,166
                          IMPROVEMENT.
  221    0205620N        SURFACE ASW              29,348          29,348
                          COMBAT SYSTEM
                          INTEGRATION.
  222    0205632N        MK-48 ADCAP....         110,349         110,349
  223    0205633N        AVIATION                133,953         133,953
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
  224    0205675N        OPERATIONAL             110,313         110,313
                          NUCLEAR POWER
                          SYSTEMS.
  225    0206313M        MARINE CORPS            207,662         207,662
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
  226    0206335M        COMMON AVIATION           4,406           4,406
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM
                          (CAC2S).
  227    0206623M        MARINE CORPS             61,381          61,381
                          GROUND COMBAT/
                          SUPPORTING
                          ARMS SYSTEMS.
  228    0206624M        MARINE CORPS             10,421          10,421
                          COMBAT
                          SERVICES
                          SUPPORT.
  229    0206625M        USMC                     29,977          29,977
                          INTELLIGENCE/
                          ELECTRONIC
                          WARFARE
                          SYSTEMS (MIP).
  230    0206629M        AMPHIBIOUS                6,469           6,469
                          ASSAULT
                          VEHICLE.
  231    0207161N        TACTICAL AIM              5,859           5,859
                          MISSILES.
  232    0207163N        ADVANCED MEDIUM          44,323          44,323
                          RANGE AIR-TO-
                          AIR MISSILE
                          (AMRAAM).
  236    0303109N        SATELLITE                41,978          41,978
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          (SPACE).
  237    0303138N        CONSOLIDATED             29,684          29,684
                          AFLOAT NETWORK
                          ENTERPRISE
                          SERVICES
                          (CANES).
  238    0303140N        INFORMATION              39,094          39,094
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  239    0305192N        MILITARY                  6,154           6,154
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          PROGRAM (MIP)
                          ACTIVITIES.
  240    0305204N        TACTICAL                  7,108           7,108
                          UNMANNED
                          AERIAL
                          VEHICLES.
  241    0305205N        UAS INTEGRATION          62,098          62,098
                          AND
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY.
  242    0305208M        DISTRIBUTED              21,500          21,500
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  244    0305220N        MQ-4C TRITON...          11,120          11,120
  245    0305231N        MQ-8 UAV.......          28,968          28,968
  246    0305232M        RQ-11 UAV......             537             537
  247    0305234N        SMALL (LEVEL 0)           8,773           8,773
                          TACTICAL UAS
                          (STUASL0).
  248    0305239M        RQ-21A.........          10,853          10,853
  249    0305241N        MULTI-                   60,413          60,413
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          SENSOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  250    0305242M        UNMANNED AERIAL           5,000           5,000
                          SYSTEMS (UAS)
                          PAYLOADS (MIP).
  251    0305251N        CYBERSPACE               34,967          44,967
                          OPERATIONS
                          FORCES AND
                          FORCE SUPPORT.
         ..............      Cyber tool                         [10,000]
                             development.
  252    0305421N        RQ-4                    178,799         178,799
                          MODERNIZATION.
  253    0307577N        INTELLIGENCE              2,120           2,120
                          MISSION DATA
                          (IMD).
  254    0308601N        MODELING AND              8,683           8,683
                          SIMULATION
                          SUPPORT.
  255    0702207N        DEPOT                    45,168          45,168
                          MAINTENANCE
                          (NON-IF).
  256    0708730N        MARITIME                  6,697           6,697
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (MARITECH).
  257    1203109N        SATELLITE                70,056          70,056
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          (SPACE).
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED            1,795,032       1,795,032
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              5,327,043       5,467,643
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS
  258    0608013N        RISK MANAGEMENT          14,300          14,300
                          INFORMATION--S
                          OFTWARE PILOT
                          PROGRAM.
  259    0608231N        MARITIME                 10,868          10,868
                          TACTICAL
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL
                          (MTC2)--SOFTWA
                          RE PILOT
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                 25,168          25,168
                          SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      21,427,048      21,036,806
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          NAVY.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          AF
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601102F        DEFENSE                 315,348         325,348
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
         ..............      Increase in                        [10,000]
                             basic
                             research.
    2    0601103F        UNIVERSITY              161,861         161,861
                          RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
    3    0601108F        HIGH ENERGY              15,085          15,085
                          LASER RESEARCH
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          492,294         502,294
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    4    0602020F        FUTURE AF               100,000         100,000
                          CAPABILITIES
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    5    0602102F        MATERIALS......         140,781         160,281
         ..............      High-energy                         [5,000]
                             synchotron
                             x-ray
                             program.
         ..............      Materials                           [5,000]
                             maturation
                             for high
                             mach
                             systems.
         ..............      Metals                              [5,000]
                             Affordabili
                             ty
                             Initiative.
         ..............      Qualificati                         [2,000]
                             on of
                             additive
                             manufacturi
                             ng
                             processes.
         ..............      Techniques                          [2,500]
                             to repair
                             fasteners.
    6    0602201F        AEROSPACE               349,225         359,225
                          VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      Hypersonic                         [10,000]
                             materials.
    7    0602202F        HUMAN                   115,222         115,222
                          EFFECTIVENESS
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
    9    0602204F        AEROSPACE               211,301         211,301
                          SENSORS.
   11    0602298F        SCIENCE AND               8,926           8,926
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          MANAGEMENT--
                          MAJOR
                          HEADQUARTERS
                          ACTIVITIES.
   12    0602602F        CONVENTIONAL            132,425         132,425
                          MUNITIONS.
   13    0602605F        DIRECTED ENERGY         128,113         128,113
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   14    0602788F        DOMINANT                178,668         178,668
                          INFORMATION
                          SCIENCES AND
                          METHODS.
   15    0602890F        HIGH ENERGY              45,088          45,088
                          LASER RESEARCH.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,409,749       1,439,249
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   17    0603030F        AF FOUNDATIONAL         103,280         103,280
                          DEVELOPMENT/
                          DEMOS.
   18    0603032F        FUTURE AF               157,619         107,619
                          INTEGRATED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMOS.
         ..............      Golden                            [-50,000]
                             Horde too
                             mature for
                             science and
                             technology
                             prototype.
   19    0603033F        NEXT GEN                199,556         208,556
                          PLATFORM DEV/
                          DEMO.
         ..............      B-52 pylon                          [3,000]
                             fairings.
         ..............      C-130                               [3,000]
                             finlets.
         ..............      KC-135 aft                          [3,000]
                             body drag.
   20    0603034F        PERSISTENT              102,276         102,276
                          KNOWLEDGE,
                          AWARENESS, &
                          C2 TECH.
   21    0603035F        NEXT GEN                215,817         215,817
                          EFFECTS DEV/
                          DEMOS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                778,548         737,548
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   38    0603260F        INTELLIGENCE              4,320           4,320
                          ADVANCED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   39    0603742F        COMBAT                   26,396          26,396
                          IDENTIFICATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   40    0603790F        NATO RESEARCH             3,647           3,647
                          AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   41    0603851F        INTERCONTINENTA          32,959          32,959
                          L BALLISTIC
                          MISSILE--DEM/
                          VAL.
   43    0604002F        AIR FORCE                   869             869
                          WEATHER
                          SERVICES
                          RESEARCH.
   44    0604003F        ADVANCED BATTLE         302,323         302,323
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SYSTEM (ABMS).
   45    0604004F        ADVANCED ENGINE         636,495         686,495
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............      AETP                               [50,000]
                             program
                             acceleratio
                             n.
   46    0604015F        LONG RANGE            2,848,410       2,848,410
                          STRIKE--BOMBER.
   47    0604032F        DIRECTED ENERGY          20,964          25,964
                          PROTOTYPING.
         ..............      Directed                            [5,000]
                             energy
                             counter-
                             Unmanned
                             Aerial
                             Systems
                             (CUAS).
   48    0604033F        HYPERSONICS             381,862         446,862
                          PROTOTYPING.
         ..............      HAWC                               [65,000]
                             program
                             increase.
   50    0604257F        ADVANCED                 24,747          24,747
                          TECHNOLOGY AND
                          SENSORS.
   51    0604288F        NATIONAL                 76,417          76,417
                          AIRBORNE OPS
                          CENTER (NAOC)
                          RECAP.
   52    0604317F        TECHNOLOGY                3,011           3,011
                          TRANSFER.
   53    0604327F        HARD AND DEEPLY          52,921          52,921
                          BURIED TARGET
                          DEFEAT SYSTEM
                          (HDBTDS)
                          PROGRAM.
   54    0604414F        CYBER                    69,783          69,783
                          RESILIENCY OF
                          WEAPON SYSTEMS-
                          ACS.
   55    0604776F        DEPLOYMENT &             25,835          25,835
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          ENTERPRISE R&D.
   56    0604858F        TECH TRANSITION         219,252         455,252
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Agile                               [4,500]
                             software
                             development
                             and
                             operations.
         ..............      Initial                            [46,000]
                             polar
                             MILSATCOM
                             capability.
         ..............      KC-135                              [2,000]
                             vertical
                             wipers.
         ..............      KC-135                             [10,000]
                             winglets.
         ..............      LCAAT                             [128,000]
                             program
                             acceleratio
                             n.
         ..............      Long-                              [33,500]
                             endurance
                             UAS.
         ..............      Rapid                               [6,000]
                             repair of
                             high
                             performance
                             materials.
         ..............      Small                               [6,000]
                             satellite
                             acceleratio
                             n.
   57    0605230F        GROUND BASED          1,524,759       1,524,759
                          STRATEGIC
                          DETERRENT.
   59    0207110F        NEXT GENERATION       1,044,089       1,044,089
                          AIR DOMINANCE.
   60    0207455F        THREE                    19,356          19,356
                          DIMENSIONAL
                          LONG-RANGE
                          RADAR (3DELRR).
   61    0207522F        AIRBASE AIR               8,737           8,737
                          DEFENSE
                          SYSTEMS
                          (ABADS).
   62    0208099F        UNIFIED                   5,990           5,990
                          PLATFORM (UP).
   63    0305236F        COMMON DATA              39,293          39,293
                          LINK EXECUTIVE
                          AGENT (CDL EA).
   65    0305601F        MISSION PARTNER          11,430          11,430
                          ENVIRONMENTS.
   66    0306250F        CYBER                   259,823         259,823
                          OPERATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   67    0306415F        ENABLED CYBER            10,560          10,560
                          ACTIVITIES.
   68    0401310F        C-32 EXECUTIVE            9,908           9,908
                          TRANSPORT
                          RECAPITALIZATI
                          ON.
   69    0901410F        CONTRACTING               8,662           8,662
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SYSTEM.
   74    1206427F        SPACE SYSTEMS             8,787           8,787
                          PROTOTYPE
                          TRANSITIONS
                          (SSPT).
   77    1206730F        SPACE SECURITY           56,311          56,311
                          AND DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              7,737,916       8,093,916
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   82    0604200F        FUTURE ADVANCED          25,161          25,161
                          WEAPON
                          ANALYSIS &
                          PROGRAMS.
   83    0604201F        PNT RESILIENCY,          38,564          38,564
                          MODS, AND
                          IMPROVEMENTS.
   84    0604222F        NUCLEAR WEAPONS          35,033          35,033
                          SUPPORT.
   85    0604270F        ELECTRONIC                2,098           2,098
                          WARFARE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   86    0604281F        TACTICAL DATA           131,909         131,909
                          NETWORKS
                          ENTERPRISE.
   87    0604287F        PHYSICAL                  6,752           6,752
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT.
   88    0604329F        SMALL DIAMETER           17,280          17,280
                          BOMB (SDB)--
                          EMD.
   89    0604429F        AIRBORNE                      0          30,000
                          ELECTRONIC
                          ATTACK.
         ..............      STiTCHES                           [30,000]
                             integration.
   90    0604602F        ARMAMENT/                23,076          23,076
                          ORDNANCE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   91    0604604F        SUBMUNITIONS...           3,091           3,091
   92    0604617F        AGILE COMBAT             20,609          20,609
                          SUPPORT.
   93    0604618F        JOINT DIRECT              7,926           7,926
                          ATTACK
                          MUNITION.
   94    0604706F        LIFE SUPPORT             23,660          23,660
                          SYSTEMS.
   95    0604735F        COMBAT TRAINING           8,898           8,898
                          RANGES.
   96    0604800F        F-35--EMD......           5,423           5,423
   97    0604932F        LONG RANGE              474,430         474,430
                          STANDOFF
                          WEAPON.
   98    0604933F        ICBM FUZE               167,099         167,099
                          MODERNIZATION.
  100    0605056F        OPEN                     30,547          30,547
                          ARCHITECTURE
                          MANAGEMENT.
  102    0605223F        ADVANCED PILOT          248,669         254,669
                          TRAINING.
         ..............      SLATE/VR                            [6,000]
                             training.
  103    0605229F        COMBAT RESCUE            63,169          63,169
                          HELICOPTER.
  105    0101125F        NUCLEAR WEAPONS           9,683           9,683
                          MODERNIZATION.
  106    0207171F        F-15 EPAWSS....         170,679         170,679
  107    0207328F        STAND IN ATTACK         160,438         160,438
                          WEAPON.
  108    0207701F        FULL COMBAT               9,422           9,422
                          MISSION
                          TRAINING.
  110    0305176F        COMBAT SURVIVOR             973             973
                          EVADER LOCATOR.
  111    0401221F        KC-46A TANKER           106,262         106,262
                          SQUADRONS.
  113    0401319F        VC-25B.........         800,889         800,889
  114    0701212F        AUTOMATED TEST           10,673          10,673
                          SYSTEMS.
  115    0804772F        TRAINING                  4,479           4,479
                          DEVELOPMENTS.
  116    0901299F        AF A1 SYSTEMS..           8,467           8,467
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       2,615,359       2,651,359
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  131    0604256F        THREAT                   57,725          57,725
                          SIMULATOR
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  132    0604759F        MAJOR T&E               208,680         223,680
                          INVESTMENT.
         ..............      Gulf Range                         [15,000]
                             telemetric
                             modernizati
                             on.
  133    0605101F        RAND PROJECT             35,803          35,803
                          AIR FORCE.
  135    0605712F        INITIAL                  13,557          13,557
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TEST &
                          EVALUATION.
  136    0605807F        TEST AND                764,606         764,606
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  142    0605831F        ACQ WORKFORCE-        1,362,038       1,362,038
                          CAPABILITY
                          INTEGRATION.
  143    0605832F        ACQ WORKFORCE-           40,768          40,768
                          ADVANCED PRGM
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  144    0605833F        ACQ WORKFORCE-          179,646         179,646
                          NUCLEAR
                          SYSTEMS.
  145    0605898F        MANAGEMENT HQ--           5,734           5,734
                          R&D.
  146    0605976F        FACILITIES               70,985          70,985
                          RESTORATION
                          AND
                          MODERNIZATION-
                          -TEST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  147    0605978F        FACILITIES               29,880          29,880
                          SUSTAINMENT--T
                          EST AND
                          EVALUATION
                          SUPPORT.
  148    0606017F        REQUIREMENTS             63,381          63,381
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          MATURATION.
  149    0606398F        MANAGEMENT HQ--           5,785           5,785
                          T&E.
  150    0303255F        COMMAND,                 24,564          24,564
                          CONTROL,
                          COMMUNICATION,
                          AND COMPUTERS
                          (C4)--STRATCOM.
  151    0308602F        ENTEPRISE                 9,883           2,383
                          INFORMATION
                          SERVICES (EIS).
         ..............      Acq strat                          [-7,500]
                             incompatibl
                             e with AF
                             digital mod
                             strategy.
  152    0702806F        ACQUISITION AND          13,384          13,384
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  153    0804731F        GENERAL SKILL             1,262           1,262
                          TRAINING.
  155    1001004F        INTERNATIONAL             3,599           3,599
                          ACTIVITIES.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              2,891,280       2,898,780
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  163    0604233F        SPECIALIZED               8,777           8,777
                          UNDERGRADUATE
                          FLIGHT
                          TRAINING.
  164    0604776F        DEPLOYMENT &                499             499
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          ENTERPRISE R&D.
  165    0604840F        F-35 C2D2......         785,336         785,336
  166    0605018F        AF INTEGRATED            27,035           7,035
                          PERSONNEL AND
                          PAY SYSTEM (AF-
                          IPPS).
         ..............      Poor agile                        [-20,000]
                             development
                             strategy.
  167    0605024F        ANTI-TAMPER              50,508          50,508
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          EXECUTIVE
                          AGENCY.
  168    0605117F        FOREIGN                  71,229          71,229
                          MATERIEL
                          ACQUISITION
                          AND
                          EXPLOITATION.
  169    0605278F        HC/MC-130 RECAP          24,705          24,705
                          RDT&E.
  170    0606018F        NC3 INTEGRATION          26,356          26,356
  172    0101113F        B-52 SQUADRONS.         520,023         520,023
  173    0101122F        AIR-LAUNCHED              1,433           1,433
                          CRUISE MISSILE
                          (ALCM).
  174    0101126F        B-1B SQUADRONS.          15,766          26,566
         ..............      USAF-                              [10,800]
                             requested
                             transfer
                             from APAF
                             Lines 22,
                             24.
  175    0101127F        B-2 SQUADRONS..         187,399         187,399
  176    0101213F        MINUTEMAN               116,569         116,569
                          SQUADRONS.
  177    0101316F        WORLDWIDE JOINT          27,235          27,235
                          STRATEGIC
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  178    0101324F        INTEGRATED               24,227          24,227
                          STRATEGIC
                          PLANNING &
                          ANALYSIS
                          NETWORK.
  179    0101328F        ICBM REENTRY            112,753         112,753
                          VEHICLES.
  181    0102110F        UH-1N                    44,464          44,464
                          REPLACEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  182    0102326F        REGION/SECTOR             5,929           5,929
                          OPERATION
                          CONTROL CENTER
                          MODERNIZATION
                          PROGRAM.
  183    0102412F        NORTH WARNING               100             100
                          SYSTEM (NWS).
  184    0205219F        MQ-9 UAV.......         162,080         162,080
  186    0207131F        A-10 SQUADRONS.          24,535          24,535
  187    0207133F        F-16 SQUADRONS.         223,437         223,437
  188    0207134F        F-15E SQUADRONS         298,908         298,908
  189    0207136F        MANNED                   14,960          14,960
                          DESTRUCTIVE
                          SUPPRESSION.
  190    0207138F        F-22A SQUADRONS         665,038         665,038
  191    0207142F        F-35 SQUADRONS.         132,229         132,229
  192    0207146F        F-15EX.........         159,761         159,761
  193    0207161F        TACTICAL AIM             19,417          19,417
                          MISSILES.
  194    0207163F        ADVANCED MEDIUM          51,799          51,799
                          RANGE AIR-TO-
                          AIR MISSILE
                          (AMRAAM).
  195    0207227F        COMBAT RESCUE--             669             669
                          PARARESCUE.
  196    0207247F        AF TENCAP......          21,644          21,644
  197    0207249F        PRECISION                 9,261           9,261
                          ATTACK SYSTEMS
                          PROCUREMENT.
  198    0207253F        COMPASS CALL...          15,854          15,854
  199    0207268F        AIRCRAFT ENGINE          95,896          95,896
                          COMPONENT
                          IMPROVEMENT
                          PROGRAM.
  200    0207325F        JOINT AIR-TO-            70,792          70,792
                          SURFACE
                          STANDOFF
                          MISSILE
                          (JASSM).
  201    0207410F        AIR & SPACE              51,187          51,187
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (AOC).
  202    0207412F        CONTROL AND              16,041          16,041
                          REPORTING
                          CENTER (CRC).
  203    0207417F        AIRBORNE                138,303         138,303
                          WARNING AND
                          CONTROL SYSTEM
                          (AWACS).
  204    0207418F        AFSPECWAR--TACP           4,223           4,223
  206    0207431F        COMBAT AIR               16,564          16,564
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          SYSTEM
                          ACTIVITIES.
  207    0207438F        THEATER BATTLE            7,858           7,858
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (TBM) C4I.
  208    0207444F        TACTICAL AIR             12,906          12,906
                          CONTROL PARTY-
                          MOD.
  210    0207452F        DCAPES.........          14,816          14,816
  211    0207521F        AIR FORCE                 1,970           1,970
                          CALIBRATION
                          PROGRAMS.
  212    0207573F        NATIONAL                    396             396
                          TECHNICAL
                          NUCLEAR
                          FORENSICS.
  213    0207590F        SEEK EAGLE.....          29,680          29,680
  214    0207601F        USAF MODELING            17,666          17,666
                          AND SIMULATION.
  215    0207605F        WARGAMING AND             6,353           6,353
                          SIMULATION
                          CENTERS.
  216    0207610F        BATTLEFIELD ABN           6,827           6,827
                          COMM NODE
                          (BACN).
  217    0207697F        DISTRIBUTED               3,390           3,390
                          TRAINING AND
                          EXERCISES.
  218    0208006F        MISSION                  91,768          91,768
                          PLANNING
                          SYSTEMS.
  219    0208007F        TACTICAL                  2,370           2,370
                          DECEPTION.
  220    0208064F        OPERATIONAL HQ--          5,527           5,527
                          CYBER.
  221    0208087F        DISTRIBUTED              68,279          68,279
                          CYBER WARFARE
                          OPERATIONS.
  222    0208088F        AF DEFENSIVE             15,165          15,165
                          CYBERSPACE
                          OPERATIONS.
  223    0208097F        JOINT CYBER              38,480          38,480
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL (JCC2).
  224    0208099F        UNIFIED                  84,645          84,645
                          PLATFORM (UP).
  230    0301025F        GEOBASE........           2,767           2,767
  231    0301112F        NUCLEAR                  32,759          32,759
                          PLANNING AND
                          EXECUTION
                          SYSTEM (NPES).
  238    0301401F        AIR FORCE SPACE           2,904           2,904
                          AND CYBER NON-
                          TRADITIONAL
                          ISR FOR
                          BATTLESPACE
                          AWARENESS.
  239    0302015F        E-4B NATIONAL             3,468           3,468
                          AIRBORNE
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (NAOC).
  240    0303131F        MINIMUM                  61,887          61,887
                          ESSENTIAL
                          EMERGENCY
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          NETWORK
                          (MEECN).
  242    0303140F        INFORMATION              10,351          10,351
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  243    0303142F        GLOBAL FORCE              1,346           1,346
                          MANAGEMENT--DA
                          TA INITIATIVE.
  246    0304260F        AIRBORNE SIGINT         128,110         128,110
                          ENTERPRISE.
  247    0304310F        COMMERCIAL                4,042           4,042
                          ECONOMIC
                          ANALYSIS.
  251    0305020F        CCMD                      1,649           1,649
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY.
  252    0305022F        ISR                      19,265          19,265
                          MODERNIZATION
                          & AUTOMATION
                          DVMT (IMAD).
  253    0305099F        GLOBAL AIR                4,645           4,645
                          TRAFFIC
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (GATM).
  254    0305103F        CYBER SECURITY              384             384
                          INITIATIVE.
  255    0305111F        WEATHER SERVICE          23,640          23,640
  256    0305114F        AIR TRAFFIC               6,553           6,553
                          CONTROL,
                          APPROACH, AND
                          LANDING SYSTEM
                          (ATCALS).
  257    0305116F        AERIAL TARGETS.             449             449
  260    0305128F        SECURITY AND                432             432
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  262    0305146F        DEFENSE JOINT             4,890           4,890
                          COUNTERINTELLI
                          GENCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  264    0305179F        INTEGRATED                8,864           8,864
                          BROADCAST
                          SERVICE (IBS).
  265    0305202F        DRAGON U-2.....          18,660          18,660
  267    0305206F        AIRBORNE                121,512         121,512
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  268    0305207F        MANNED                   14,711          14,711
                          RECONNAISSANCE
                          SYSTEMS.
  269    0305208F        DISTRIBUTED              14,152          14,152
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  270    0305220F        RQ-4 UAV.......         134,589         134,589
  271    0305221F        NETWORK-CENTRIC          15,049          15,049
                          COLLABORATIVE
                          TARGETING.
  272    0305238F        NATO AGS.......          36,731          36,731
  273    0305240F        SUPPORT TO DCGS          33,547          33,547
                          ENTERPRISE.
  274    0305600F        INTERNATIONAL            13,635          17,315
                          INTELLIGENCE
                          TECHNOLOGY AND
                          ARCHITECTURES.
         ..............      PDI:                                [3,680]
                             Mission
                             Partner
                             Environment
                             BICES-X
                             Project
                             675898.
  275    0305881F        RAPID CYBER               4,262           4,262
                          ACQUISITION.
  276    0305984F        PERSONNEL                 2,207           2,207
                          RECOVERY
                          COMMAND & CTRL
                          (PRC2).
  277    0307577F        INTELLIGENCE              6,277           6,277
                          MISSION DATA
                          (IMD).
  278    0401115F        C-130 AIRLIFT            41,973          41,973
                          SQUADRON.
  279    0401119F        C-5 AIRLIFT              32,560          32,560
                          SQUADRONS (IF).
  280    0401130F        C-17 AIRCRAFT             9,991          12,991
                          (IF).
         ..............      C-17                                [3,000]
                             microvanes.
  281    0401132F        C-130J PROGRAM.          10,674          10,674
  282    0401134F        LARGE AIRCRAFT            5,507           5,507
                          IR
                          COUNTERMEASURE
                          S (LAIRCM).
  283    0401218F        KC-135S........           4,591           4,591
  286    0401318F        CV-22..........          18,419          18,419
  288    0408011F        SPECIAL TACTICS           7,673           7,673
                          / COMBAT
                          CONTROL.
  290    0708055F        MAINTENANCE,             24,513          24,513
                          REPAIR &
                          OVERHAUL
                          SYSTEM.
  291    0708610F        LOGISTICS                35,225          15,225
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (LOGIT).
         ..............      Poor agile                        [-20,000]
                             development
                             strategy.
  292    0708611F        SUPPORT SYSTEMS          11,838          11,838
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  293    0804743F        OTHER FLIGHT              1,332           1,332
                          TRAINING.
  295    0901202F        JOINT PERSONNEL           2,092           2,092
                          RECOVERY
                          AGENCY.
  296    0901218F        CIVILIAN                  3,869           3,869
                          COMPENSATION
                          PROGRAM.
  297    0901220F        PERSONNEL                 1,584           1,584
                          ADMINISTRATION.
  298    0901226F        AIR FORCE                 1,197           1,197
                          STUDIES AND
                          ANALYSIS
                          AGENCY.
  299    0901538F        FINANCIAL                 7,006           7,006
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  300    0901554F        DEFENSE                  45,638          45,638
                          ENTERPRISE
                          ACNTNG AND MGT
                          SYS (DEAMS).
  301    1201017F        GLOBAL SENSOR             1,889           1,889
                          INTEGRATED ON
                          NETWORK (GSIN).
  302    1201921F        SERVICE SUPPORT             993             993
                          TO STRATCOM--
                          SPACE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  303    1202140F        SERVICE SUPPORT           8,999           8,999
                          TO SPACECOM
                          ACTIVITIES.
  314    1203400F        SPACE                    16,810          16,810
                          SUPERIORITY
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  316    1203620F        NATIONAL SPACE            2,687           2,687
                          DEFENSE CENTER.
  318    1203906F        NCMC--TW/AA               6,990           6,990
                          SYSTEM.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED           15,777,856      15,839,856
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............      Air-to-air                         [62,000]
                             weapons
                             development
                             increase.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL             21,466,680      21,506,160
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      37,391,826      37,829,306
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          AF.
         ..............
         ..............  RDTE, SPACE
                          FORCE
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    1    1206601SF       SPACE                   130,874         133,874
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Small                               [3,000]
                             satellite
                             mission
                             operations
                             facility.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                130,874         133,874
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
    2    1203164SF       NAVSTAR GLOBAL          390,704         370,704
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM (USER
                          EQUIPMENT)
                          (SPACE).
         ..............      MGUE                              [-20,000]
                             program
                             slip.
    3    1203710SF       EO/IR WEATHER           131,000         131,000
                          SYSTEMS.
    4    1206422SF       WEATHER SYSTEM           83,384          83,384
                          FOLLOW-ON.
    5    1206425SF       SPACE SITUATION          33,359          33,359
                          AWARENESS
                          SYSTEMS.
    6    1206427SF       SPACE SYSTEMS           142,808         142,808
                          PROTOTYPE
                          TRANSITIONS
                          (SSPT).
    7    1206438SF       SPACE CONTROL            35,575          35,575
                          TECHNOLOGY.
    8    1206760SF       PROTECTED               114,390         114,390
                          TACTICAL
                          ENTERPRISE
                          SERVICE (PTES).
    9    1206761SF       PROTECTED               205,178         205,178
                          TACTICAL
                          SERVICE (PTS).
   10    1206855SF       EVOLVED                  71,395          71,395
                          STRATEGIC
                          SATCOM (ESS).
   11    1206857SF       SPACE RAPID             103,518         103,518
                          CAPABILITIES
                          OFFICE.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,311,311       1,291,311
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
   12    1203269SF       GPS III FOLLOW-         263,496         263,496
                          ON (GPS IIIF).
   13    1203940SF       SPACE SITUATION          41,897          41,897
                          AWARENESS
                          OPERATIONS.
   14    1206421SF       COUNTERSPACE             54,689          54,689
                          SYSTEMS.
   15    1206422SFZ      WEATHER SYSTEM            2,526           2,526
                          FOLLOW-ON.
   16    1206425SFZ      SPACE SITUATION         173,074         173,074
                          AWARENESS
                          SYSTEMS.
   17    1206431SF       ADVANCED EHF            138,257         138,257
                          MILSATCOM
                          (SPACE).
   18    1206432SF       POLAR MILSATCOM         190,235         190,235
                          (SPACE).
   19    1206442SF       NEXT GENERATION       2,318,864       2,318,864
                          OPIR.
   20    1206853SF       NATIONAL                560,978         590,978
                          SECURITY SPACE
                          LAUNCH PROGRAM
                          (SPACE)--EMD.
         ..............      NSSL Phase                         [30,000]
                             3
                             integration
                             activities
                             program.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM       3,744,016       3,774,016
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
   21    1206116SF       SPACE TEST AND           20,281          20,281
                          TRAINING RANGE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   22    1206392SF       ACQ WORKFORCE--         183,930         183,930
                          SPACE &
                          MISSILE
                          SYSTEMS.
   23    1206398SF       SPACE & MISSILE           9,765           9,765
                          SYSTEMS
                          CENTER--MHA.
   24    1206860SF       ROCKET SYSTEMS           17,993          17,993
                          LAUNCH PROGRAM
                          (SPACE).
   25    1206864SF       SPACE TEST               26,541          26,541
                          PROGRAM (STP).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                258,510         258,510
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
   26    1201017SF       GLOBAL SENSOR             3,708           3,708
                          INTEGRATED ON
                          NETWORK (GSIN).
   27    1203001SF       FAMILY OF               247,229         247,229
                          ADVANCED BLOS
                          TERMINALS (FAB-
                          T).
   28    1203110SF       SATELLITE                75,480          75,480
                          CONTROL
                          NETWORK
                          (SPACE).
   29    1203165SF       NAVSTAR GLOBAL            1,984           1,984
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM (SPACE
                          AND CONTROL
                          SEGMENTS).
   30    1203173SF       SPACE AND                 4,397           4,397
                          MISSILE TEST
                          AND EVALUATION
                          CENTER.
   31    1203174SF       SPACE                    44,746          44,746
                          INNOVATION,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND RAPID
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   32    1203182SF       SPACELIFT RANGE          11,020          11,020
                          SYSTEM (SPACE).
   33    1203265SF       GPS III SPACE            10,777          10,777
                          SEGMENT.
   34    1203873SF       BALLISTIC                28,179          46,679
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE RADARS.
         ..............      Cobra Dane                         [18,500]
                             service
                             life
                             extension.
   35    1203913SF       NUDET DETECTION          29,157          29,157
                          SYSTEM (SPACE).
   36    1203940SFZ      SPACE SITUATION          44,809          51,809
                          AWARENESS
                          OPERATIONS.
         ..............      Commercial                          [7,000]
                             SSA.
   37    1206423SF       GLOBAL                  481,999         416,999
                          POSITIONING
                          SYSTEM III--
                          OPERATIONAL
                          CONTROL
                          SEGMENT.
         ..............      Funds                             [-65,000]
                             available
                             prioritized
                             to other
                             space
                             missions.
   41    1206770SF       ENTERPRISE              116,791         116,791
                          GROUND
                          SERVICES.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED            3,632,866       3,632,866
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              4,733,142       4,693,642
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS
   42    1203614SF       JSPOC MISSION           149,742         149,742
                          SYSTEM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                149,742         149,742
                          SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RDTE,          10,327,595      10,301,095
                          SPACE FORCE.
         ..............
         ..............  RESEARCH,
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DW
         ..............  BASIC RESEARCH
    1    0601000BR       DTRA BASIC               14,617          14,617
                          RESEARCH.
    2    0601101E        DEFENSE                 479,958         479,958
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCES.
    3    0601110D8Z      BASIC RESEARCH           35,565          72,565
                          INITIATIVES.
         ..............      DEPSCoR....                        [20,000]
         ..............      Minerva                            [17,000]
                             Research
                             initiative
                             restore DWR
                             cut.
    4    0601117E        BASIC                    53,730          58,730
                          OPERATIONAL
                          MEDICAL
                          RESEARCH
                          SCIENCE.
         ..............      Traumatic                           [5,000]
                             brain
                             injury
                             medical
                             research.
    5    0601120D8Z      NATIONAL                100,241         100,241
                          DEFENSE
                          EDUCATION
                          PROGRAM.
    6    0601228D8Z      HISTORICALLY             30,975          37,975
                          BLACK COLLEGES
                          AND
                          UNIVERSITIES/
                          MINORITY
                          INSTITUTIONS.
         ..............      Aerospace                           [2,000]
                             education,
                             research,
                             and
                             innovation
                             activities.
         ..............      HBCU/                               [5,000]
                             Minority
                             Institution
                             s.
    7    0601384BP       CHEMICAL AND             45,300          45,300
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL BASIC          760,386         809,386
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  APPLIED
                          RESEARCH
    8    0602000D8Z      JOINT MUNITIONS          19,409          19,409
                          TECHNOLOGY.
    9    0602115E        BIOMEDICAL              107,568         107,568
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   11    0602230D8Z      DEFENSE                  35,000          35,000
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          INNOVATION.
   12    0602234D8Z      LINCOLN                  41,080          41,080
                          LABORATORY
                          RESEARCH
                          PROGRAM.
   13    0602251D8Z      APPLIED                  60,722          60,722
                          RESEARCH FOR
                          THE
                          ADVANCEMENT OF
                          S&T PRIORITIES.
   14    0602303E        INFORMATION &           435,920         435,920
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   15    0602383E        BIOLOGICAL               26,950          26,950
                          WARFARE
                          DEFENSE.
   16    0602384BP       CHEMICAL AND            201,807         201,807
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
   17    0602668D8Z      CYBER SECURITY           15,255          15,255
                          RESEARCH.
   18    0602702E        TACTICAL                233,271         233,271
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   19    0602715E        MATERIALS AND           250,107         290,107
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Increase in                        [40,000]
                             emerging
                             biotech
                             research.
   20    0602716E        ELECTRONICS             322,693         322,693
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   21    0602718BR       COUNTER WEAPONS         174,571         174,571
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   22    0602751D8Z      SOFTWARE                  9,573           9,573
                          ENGINEERING
                          INSTITUTE
                          (SEI) APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
   23    1160401BB       SOF TECHNOLOGY           42,464          42,464
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,976,390       2,016,390
                          APPLIED
                          RESEARCH.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
   24    0603000D8Z      JOINT MUNITIONS          22,920          22,920
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   25    0603121D8Z      SO/LIC ADVANCED           4,914           4,914
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   26    0603122D8Z      COMBATING                51,089          51,089
                          TERRORISM
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SUPPORT.
   27    0603133D8Z      FOREIGN                  25,183          25,183
                          COMPARATIVE
                          TESTING.
   29    0603160BR       COUNTER WEAPONS         366,659         366,659
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   30    0603176C        ADVANCED                 14,910          14,910
                          CONCEPTS AND
                          PERFORMANCE
                          ASSESSMENT.
   32    0603180C        ADVANCED                 18,687          18,687
                          RESEARCH.
   33    0603225D8Z      JOINT DOD-DOE            18,873          18,873
                          MUNITIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   34    0603286E        ADVANCED                230,978         210,978
                          AEROSPACE
                          SYSTEMS.
         ..............      OpFires                           [-20,000]
                             lack of
                             transition
                             pathway.
   35    0603287E        SPACE PROGRAMS          158,439         158,439
                          AND TECHNOLOGY.
   36    0603288D8Z      ANALYTIC                 23,775          23,775
                          ASSESSMENTS.
   37    0603289D8Z      ADVANCED                 36,524          36,524
                          INNOVATIVE
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          CONCEPTS.
   38    0603291D8Z      ADVANCED                 14,703          14,703
                          INNOVATIVE
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          CONCEPTS--MHA.
   39    0603294C        COMMON KILL              11,058          11,058
                          VEHICLE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   40    0603338D8Z      DEFENSE                 133,375         126,375
                          MODERNIZATION
                          AND
                          PROTOTYPING.
         ..............      Lack of                           [-20,000]
                             hypersonic
                             prototype
                             coordinatio
                             n efforts.
         ..............      Stratospher                        [13,000]
                             ic balloon
                             research.
   42    0603342D8Z      DEFENSE                  26,141          26,141
                          INNOVATION
                          UNIT (DIU).
   43    0603375D8Z      TECHNOLOGY               27,709          27,709
                          INNOVATION.
   44    0603384BP       CHEMICAL AND            188,001         188,001
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--ADVAN
                          CED
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   45    0603527D8Z      RETRACT LARCH..         130,283         130,283
   46    0603618D8Z      JOINT                    15,164          15,164
                          ELECTRONIC
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   47    0603648D8Z      JOINT                    85,452          85,452
                          CAPABILITY
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   48    0603662D8Z      NETWORKED                 5,882           5,882
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          CAPABILITIES.
   49    0603680D8Z      DEFENSE-WIDE             93,817          98,817
                          MANUFACTURING
                          SCIENCE AND
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Rapid                               [5,000]
                             prototyping
                             using
                             digital
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
   50    0603680S        MANUFACTURING            40,025          55,025
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Defense                             [5,000]
                             supply
                             chain
                             technologie
                             s.
         ..............      Steel                              [10,000]
                             performance
                             initiative.
   52    0603712S        GENERIC                  10,235          10,235
                          LOGISTICS R&D
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEMONSTRATIONS.
   53    0603716D8Z      STRATEGIC                53,862          53,862
                          ENVIRONMENTAL
                          RESEARCH
                          PROGRAM.
   54    0603720S        MICROELECTRONIC         124,049         124,049
                          S TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND SUPPORT.
   55    0603727D8Z      JOINT                     3,871           3,871
                          WARFIGHTING
                          PROGRAM.
   56    0603739E        ADVANCED                 95,864          95,864
                          ELECTRONICS
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
   57    0603760E        COMMAND,                221,724         221,724
                          CONTROL AND
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          SYSTEMS.
   58    0603766E        NETWORK-CENTRIC         661,158         651,158
                          WARFARE
                          TECHNOLOGY.
         ..............      Lack of                           [-10,000]
                             coordinatio
                             n.
   59    0603767E        SENSOR                  200,220         200,220
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   60    0603769D8Z      DISTRIBUTED               6,765           6,765
                          LEARNING
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   61    0603781D8Z      SOFTWARE                 12,598          12,598
                          ENGINEERING
                          INSTITUTE.
   64    0603924D8Z      HIGH ENERGY             105,410         105,410
                          LASER ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PROGRAM.
   65    0603941D8Z      TEST &                  187,065         187,065
                          EVALUATION
                          SCIENCE &
                          TECHNOLOGY.
   67    0604055D8Z      OPERATIONAL                   0          65,000
                          ENERGY
                          CAPABILITY
                          IMPROVEMENT.
         ..............      Restoration                        [65,000]
                             of funds.
   70    1160402BB       SOF ADVANCED             89,072          89,072
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
   71    1206310SDA      SPACE SCIENCE            72,422          72,422
                          AND TECHNOLOGY
                          RESEARCH AND
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              3,588,876       3,636,876
                          ADVANCED
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES
   72    0603161D8Z      NUCLEAR AND              32,636          32,636
                          CONVENTIONAL
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT
                          RDT&E ADC&P.
   73    0603600D8Z      WALKOFF........         106,529         106,529
   75    0603851D8Z      ENVIRONMENTAL            61,345          76,345
                          SECURITY
                          TECHNICAL
                          CERTIFICATION
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Joint                              [15,000]
                             Storage
                             Program.
   76    0603881C        BALLISTIC               412,627         412,627
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TERMINAL
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT.
   77    0603882C        BALLISTIC             1,004,305       1,004,305
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          MIDCOURSE
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT.
   78    0603884BP       CHEMICAL AND             76,167          76,167
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--DEM/
                          VAL.
   79    0603884C        BALLISTIC               281,957         281,957
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          SENSORS.
   80    0603890C        BMD ENABLING            599,380         599,380
                          PROGRAMS.
   81    0603891C        SPECIAL                 420,216         420,216
                          PROGRAMS--MDA.
   82    0603892C        AEGIS BMD......         814,936         814,936
   83    0603896C        BALLISTIC               593,353         593,353
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          COMMAND AND
                          CONTROL,
                          BATTLE
                          MANAGEMENT AND
                          COMMUNICATI.
   84    0603898C        BALLISTIC                49,560          49,560
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE JOINT
                          WARFIGHTER
                          SUPPORT.
   85    0603904C        MISSILE DEFENSE          55,356          55,356
                          INTEGRATION &
                          OPERATIONS
                          CENTER (MDIOC).
   86    0603906C        REGARDING                11,863          11,863
                          TRENCH.
   87    0603907C        SEA BASED X-            118,318         118,318
                          BAND RADAR
                          (SBX).
   88    0603913C        ISRAELI                 300,000         300,000
                          COOPERATIVE
                          PROGRAMS.
   89    0603914C        BALLISTIC               378,302         378,302
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE TEST.
   90    0603915C        BALLISTIC               536,133         536,133
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TARGETS.
   92    0603923D8Z      COALITION                10,129          10,129
                          WARFARE.
   93    0604011D8Z      NEXT GENERATION         449,000         449,000
                          INFORMATION
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          (5G).
   94    0604016D8Z      DEPARTMENT OF             3,325           3,325
                          DEFENSE
                          CORROSION
                          PROGRAM.
   95    0604115C        TECHNOLOGY               67,389          67,389
                          MATURATION
                          INITIATIVES.
   98    0604181C        HYPERSONIC              206,832         206,832
                          DEFENSE.
   99    0604250D8Z      ADVANCED                730,508         630,508
                          INNOVATIVE
                          TECHNOLOGIES.
         ..............      Program                          [-100,000]
                             decrease.
  100    0604294D8Z      TRUSTED &               489,076         489,076
                          ASSURED
                          MICROELECTRONI
                          CS.
  101    0604331D8Z      RAPID                   102,023          82,023
                          PROTOTYPING
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Lack of                           [-20,000]
                             hypersonic
                             prototype
                             coordinatio
                             n efforts.
  102    0604341D8Z      DEFENSE                  13,255          13,255
                          INNOVATION
                          UNIT (DIU)
                          PROTOTYPING.
  103    0604400D8Z      DEPARTMENT OF             2,787           2,787
                          DEFENSE (DOD)
                          UNMANNED
                          SYSTEM COMMON
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  105    0604672C        HOMELAND                      0         162,000
                          DEFENSE RADAR--
                          HAWAII (HDR-H).
         ..............      Continue                          [162,000]
                             radar
                             development.
  107    0604682D8Z      WARGAMING AND             3,469           3,469
                          SUPPORT FOR
                          STRATEGIC
                          ANALYSIS (SSA).
  109    0604826J        JOINT C5                 19,190          19,190
                          CAPABILITY
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          INTEGRATION
                          AND
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY ASSESSMENTS.
  110    0604873C        LONG RANGE              137,256         137,256
                          DISCRIMINATION
                          RADAR (LRDR).
  111    0604874C        IMPROVED                664,138         354,138
                          HOMELAND
                          DEFENSE
                          INTERCEPTORS.
         ..............      Contract                         [-310,000]
                             award delay.
  112    0604876C        BALLISTIC                 7,768           7,768
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          TERMINAL
                          DEFENSE
                          SEGMENT TEST.
  113    0604878C        AEGIS BMD TEST.         170,880         170,880
  114    0604879C        BALLISTIC                76,456          76,456
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE SENSOR
                          TEST.
  115    0604880C        LAND-BASED SM-3          56,628         133,428
                          (LBSM3).
         ..............      PDI: Guam                          [76,800]
                             Defense
                             System--sys
                             tems
                             engineering.
  116    0604887C        BALLISTIC                67,071          67,071
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          MIDCOURSE
                          SEGMENT TEST.
  118    0300206R        ENTERPRISE                2,198           2,198
                          INFORMATION
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          SYSTEMS.
  119    0303191D8Z      JOINT                       997             997
                          ELECTROMAGNETI
                          C TECHNOLOGY
                          (JET) PROGRAM.
  120    0305103C        CYBER SECURITY            1,148           1,148
                          INITIATIVE.
  121    1206410SDA      SPACE                   215,994         325,994
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          PROTOTYPING.
         ..............      Execution                         [-20,000]
                             of HBTSS by
                             MDA.
         ..............      Space-based                       [130,000]
                             target
                             custody
                             layer.
  122    1206893C        SPACE TRACKING           34,144          34,144
                          & SURVEILLANCE
                          SYSTEM.
  123    1206895C        BALLISTIC                32,068         152,068
                          MISSILE
                          DEFENSE SYSTEM
                          SPACE PROGRAMS.
         ..............      Hypersonic                        [120,000]
                             and
                             Ballistic
                             Tracking
                             Space
                             Sensor
                             (HBTSS).
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              9,416,712       9,470,512
                          ADVANCED
                          COMPONENT
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          PROTOTYPES.
         ..............
         ..............  SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION
  124    0604161D8Z      NUCLEAR AND               7,173           7,173
                          CONVENTIONAL
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY
                          EQUIPMENT
                          RDT&E SDD.
  126    0604384BP       CHEMICAL AND            319,976         322,976
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM--EMD.
         ..............      Stryker                             [3,000]
                             NBCRV
                             sensor
                             suite
                             upgrade.
  127    0604771D8Z      JOINT TACTICAL           54,985          54,985
                          INFORMATION
                          DISTRIBUTION
                          SYSTEM (JTIDS).
  128    0605000BR       COUNTER WEAPONS          15,650          15,650
                          OF MASS
                          DESTRUCTION
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  129    0605013BL       INFORMATION               1,441           1,441
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  130    0605021SE       HOMELAND                  7,287           7,287
                          PERSONNEL
                          SECURITY
                          INITIATIVE.
  131    0605022D8Z      DEFENSE                  12,928          12,928
                          EXPORTABILITY
                          PROGRAM.
  132    0605027D8Z      OUSD(C) IT               10,259          10,259
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          INITIATIVES.
  133    0605070S        DOD ENTERPRISE            1,377           1,377
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
  134    0605075D8Z      CMO POLICY AND            1,648           1,648
                          INTEGRATION.
  135    0605080S        DEFENSE AGENCY           20,537          20,537
                          INITIATIVES
                          (DAI)--FINANCI
                          AL SYSTEM.
  136    0605090S        DEFENSE RETIRED           1,638           1,638
                          AND ANNUITANT
                          PAY SYSTEM
                          (DRAS).
  137    0605141BR       MISSION                   5,500           5,500
                          ASSURANCE RISK
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SYSTEM (MARMS).
  138    0605210D8Z      DEFENSE-WIDE              8,279           8,279
                          ELECTRONIC
                          PROCUREMENT
                          CAPABILITIES.
  139    0605294D8Z      TRUSTED &               107,585         107,585
                          ASSURED
                          MICROELECTRONI
                          CS.
  140    0605772D8Z      NUCLEAR                   3,685           3,685
                          COMMAND,
                          CONTROL, &
                          COMMUNICATIONS.
  143    0305304D8Z      DOD ENTERPRISE            3,275           3,275
                          ENERGY
                          INFORMATION
                          MANAGEMENT
                          (EEIM).
  144    0305310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:            20,585          20,585
                          SYSTEM
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          AND
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM         603,808         606,808
                          DEVELOPMENT &
                          DEMONSTRATION.
         ..............
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
  145    0603829J        JOINT                    11,239          11,239
                          CAPABILITY
                          EXPERIMENTATIO
                          N.
  146    0604774D8Z      DEFENSE                   9,793           9,793
                          READINESS
                          REPORTING
                          SYSTEM (DRRS).
  147    0604875D8Z      JOINT SYSTEMS             8,497           8,497
                          ARCHITECTURE
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  148    0604940D8Z      CENTRAL TEST            422,451         452,451
                          AND EVALUATION
                          INVESTMENT
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          (CTEIP).
         ..............      Joint                              [15,000]
                             Counter-UAS
                             Office
                             assessment
                             infrastruct
                             ure.
         ..............      Telemetry                          [15,000]
                             range
                             extension
                             wave glider
                             relay.
  149    0604942D8Z      ASSESSMENTS AND          18,379          18,379
                          EVALUATIONS.
  150    0605001E        MISSION SUPPORT          74,334          74,334
  151    0605100D8Z      JOINT MISSION            79,046          79,046
                          ENVIRONMENT
                          TEST
                          CAPABILITY
                          (JMETC).
  153    0605126J        JOINT                    50,255          50,255
                          INTEGRATED AIR
                          AND MISSILE
                          DEFENSE
                          ORGANIZATION
                          (JIAMDO).
  155    0605142D8Z      SYSTEMS                  49,376          49,376
                          ENGINEERING.
  156    0605151D8Z      STUDIES AND               5,777           7,777
                          ANALYSIS
                          SUPPORT--OSD.
         ..............      National                            [2,000]
                             Academies
                             of Science
                             study on
                             comparison
                             of talent
                             programs.
  157    0605161D8Z      NUCLEAR MATTERS-         16,552          16,552
                          PHYSICAL
                          SECURITY.
  158    0605170D8Z      SUPPORT TO                9,582           9,582
                          NETWORKS AND
                          INFORMATION
                          INTEGRATION.
  159    0605200D8Z      GENERAL SUPPORT           1,940           1,940
                          TO USD
                          (INTELLIGENCE).
  160    0605384BP       CHEMICAL AND            122,951         122,951
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          PROGRAM.
  167    0605790D8Z      SMALL BUSINESS            3,582           3,582
                          INNOVATION
                          RESEARCH
                          (SBIR)/ SMALL
                          BUSINESS
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          TRANSFER.
  168    0605797D8Z      MAINTAINING              29,566          29,566
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          ADVANTAGE.
  169    0605798D8Z      DEFENSE                  29,059          29,059
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          ANALYSIS.
  170    0605801KA       DEFENSE                  59,369           9,369
                          TECHNICAL
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER (DTIC).
         ..............      Insufficien                       [-50,000]
                             t progress
                             on data
                             sharing and
                             open
                             repositorie
                             s.
  171    0605803SE       R&D IN SUPPORT           29,420          29,420
                          OF DOD
                          ENLISTMENT,
                          TESTING AND
                          EVALUATION.
  172    0605804D8Z      DEVELOPMENT              27,198          27,198
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION.
  173    0605898E        MANAGEMENT HQ--          13,434          13,434
                          R&D.
  174    0605998KA       MANAGEMENT HQ--           2,837           2,837
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNICAL
                          INFORMATION
                          CENTER (DTIC).
  175    0606100D8Z      BUDGET AND               13,173          13,173
                          PROGRAM
                          ASSESSMENTS.
  176    0606225D8Z      ODNA TECHNOLOGY           3,200           3,200
                          AND RESOURCE
                          ANALYSIS.
  177    0606589D8W      DEFENSE DIGITAL             999             999
                          SERVICE (DDS)
                          DEVELOPMENT
                          SUPPORT.
  180    0203345D8Z      DEFENSE                   3,099           3,099
                          OPERATIONS
                          SECURITY
                          INITIATIVE
                          (DOSI).
  181    0204571J        JOINT STAFF               3,058           3,058
                          ANALYTICAL
                          SUPPORT.
  182    0208045K        C4I                      59,813          59,813
                          INTEROPERABILI
                          TY.
  185    0303140SE       INFORMATION               1,112           1,112
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  186    0303166J        SUPPORT TO                  545             545
                          INFORMATION
                          OPERATIONS
                          (IO)
                          CAPABILITIES.
  187    0303260D8Z      DEFENSE                   1,036           1,036
                          MILITARY
                          DECEPTION
                          PROGRAM OFFICE
                          (DMDPO).
  188    0305172K        COMBINED                 30,824          30,824
                          ADVANCED
                          APPLICATIONS.
  190    0305208K        DISTRIBUTED               3,048           3,048
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  194    0804768J        COCOM EXERCISE           31,125          31,125
                          ENGAGEMENT AND
                          TRAINING
                          TRANSFORMATION
                          (CE2T2)--NON-
                          MHA.
  195    0808709SE       DEFENSE EQUAL               100             100
                          OPPORTUNITY
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INSTITUTE
                          (DEOMI).
  196    0901598C        MANAGEMENT HQ--          26,902          26,902
                          MDA.
  197    0903235K        JOINT SERVICE             3,138           3,138
                          PROVIDER (JSP).
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED               41,583          41,583
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              1,297,392       1,279,392
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT
  199    0604130V        ENTERPRISE               14,378          14,378
                          SECURITY
                          SYSTEM (ESS).
  200    0604532K        JOINT                   132,058         132,058
                          ARTIFICIAL
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  201    0605127T        REGIONAL                  1,986           1,986
                          INTERNATIONAL
                          OUTREACH (RIO)
                          AND
                          PARTNERSHIP
                          FOR PEACE
                          INFORMATION
                          MANA.
  202    0605147T        OVERSEAS                    316             316
                          HUMANITARIAN
                          ASSISTANCE
                          SHARED
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEM
                          (OHASIS).
  203    0607210D8Z      INDUSTRIAL BASE           9,151          70,151
                          ANALYSIS AND
                          SUSTAINMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............      Advanced                           [20,000]
                             machine
                             tool
                             research.
         ..............      Cold spray                          [5,000]
                             manufacturi
                             ng
                             technologie
                             s.
         ..............      Domestic                            [5,000]
                             organic LED
                             manufacturi
                             ng.
         ..............      Implementat                         [5,000]
                             ion of
                             radar
                             supplier
                             resiliency
                             plan.
         ..............      Manufacturi                         [6,000]
                             ng for
                             reuse of
                             NdFeB
                             magnets.
         ..............      Submarine                          [20,000]
                             industrial
                             base
                             workforce
                             training
                             pipeline.
  204    0607310D8Z      CWMD SYSTEMS:            19,082          19,082
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  205    0607327T        GLOBAL THEATER            3,992           3,992
                          SECURITY
                          COOPERATION
                          MANAGEMENT
                          INFORMATION
                          SYSTEMS (G-
                          TSCMIS).
  206    0607384BP       CHEMICAL AND             39,530          39,530
                          BIOLOGICAL
                          DEFENSE
                          (OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT).
  207    0208043J        PLANNING AND              3,039           3,039
                          DECISION AID
                          SYSTEM (PDAS).
  212    0302019K        DEFENSE INFO             16,324          16,324
                          INFRASTRUCTURE
                          ENGINEERING
                          AND
                          INTEGRATION.
  213    0303126K        LONG-HAUL                11,884          11,884
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          -DCS.
  214    0303131K        MINIMUM                   5,560           5,560
                          ESSENTIAL
                          EMERGENCY
                          COMMUNICATIONS
                          NETWORK
                          (MEECN).
  215    0303136G        KEY MANAGEMENT           73,356          73,356
                          INFRASTRUCTURE
                          (KMI).
  216    0303140D8Z      INFORMATION              46,577          66,577
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Workforce                          [20,000]
                             transformat
                             ion cyber
                             initiative
                             pilot
                             program.
  217    0303140G        INFORMATION             356,713         356,713
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
  218    0303140K        INFORMATION               8,922          18,922
                          SYSTEMS
                          SECURITY
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............      Execution                          [10,000]
                             of
                             orchestrati
                             on pilot.
  219    0303150K        GLOBAL COMMAND            3,695           3,695
                          AND CONTROL
                          SYSTEM.
  220    0303153K        DEFENSE                  20,113          20,113
                          SPECTRUM
                          ORGANIZATION.
  223    0303228K        JOINT REGIONAL            9,728           9,242
                          SECURITY
                          STACKS (JRSS).
         ..............      JRSS SIPR                            [-486]
                             funding.
  231    0305128V        SECURITY AND              5,700           5,700
                          INVESTIGATIVE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  235    0305186D8Z      POLICY R&D                7,144           7,144
                          PROGRAMS.
  236    0305199D8Z      NET CENTRICITY.          21,793          21,793
  238    0305208BB       DISTRIBUTED               6,066           6,066
                          COMMON GROUND/
                          SURFACE
                          SYSTEMS.
  245    0305387D8Z      HOMELAND                  2,190           2,190
                          DEFENSE
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          TRANSFER
                          PROGRAM.
  252    0708012K        LOGISTICS                 1,654           1,654
                          SUPPORT
                          ACTIVITIES.
  253    0708012S        PACIFIC                   1,785           1,785
                          DISASTER
                          CENTERS.
  254    0708047S        DEFENSE                   7,301           7,301
                          PROPERTY
                          ACCOUNTABILITY
                          SYSTEM.
  256    1105219BB       MQ-9 UAV.......          21,265          21,265
  258    1160403BB       AVIATION                230,812         230,812
                          SYSTEMS.
  259    1160405BB       INTELLIGENCE             19,558          19,558
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
  260    1160408BB       OPERATIONAL             136,041         136,041
                          ENHANCEMENTS.
  261    1160431BB       WARRIOR SYSTEMS          59,511          58,311
         ..............      MMP-Light                          [-1,200]
                             unexecutabl
                             e, transfer
                             to man-pack.
  262    1160432BB       SPECIAL                  10,500          10,500
                          PROGRAMS.
  263    1160434BB       UNMANNED ISR...          19,154          19,154
  264    1160480BB       SOF TACTICAL              9,263           9,263
                          VEHICLES.
  265    1160483BB       MARITIME                 59,882          59,882
                          SYSTEMS.
  266    1160489BB       GLOBAL VIDEO              4,606           4,606
                          SURVEILLANCE
                          ACTIVITIES.
  267    1160490BB       OPERATIONAL              11,612          11,612
                          ENHANCEMENTS
                          INTELLIGENCE.
  268    1203610K        TELEPORT                  3,239           3,239
                          PROGRAM.
  999    9999999999      CLASSIFIED            4,746,466       4,746,466
                          PROGRAMS.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL              6,161,946       6,251,260
                          OPERATIONAL
                          SYSTEMS
                          DEVELOPMENT.
         ..............
         ..............  SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS
  269    0608197V        NATIONAL                121,676         121,676
                          BACKGROUND
                          INVESTIGATION
                          SERVICES--SOFT
                          WARE PILOT
                          PROGRAM.
  270    0608648D8Z      ACQUISITION              16,848          16,848
                          VISIBILITY--SO
                          FTWARE PILOT
                          PROGRAM.
  271    0303150K        GLOBAL COMMAND           86,750          86,750
                          AND CONTROL
                          SYSTEM.
  272    0308588D8Z      ALGORITHMIC             250,107         250,107
                          WARFARE CROSS
                          FUNCTIONAL
                          TEAMS--SOFTWAR
                          E PILOT
                          PROGRAM.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                475,381         475,381
                          SOFTWARE AND
                          DIGITAL
                          TECHNOLOGY
                          PILOT PROGRAMS.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RESEARCH,      24,280,891      24,546,005
                          DEVELOPMENT,
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DW.
         ..............
         ..............  OPERATIONAL
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DEFENSE
         ..............  MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT
    1    0605118OTE      OPERATIONAL             100,021         100,021
                          TEST AND
                          EVALUATION.
    2    0605131OTE      LIVE FIRE TEST           70,933          70,933
                          AND EVALUATION.
    3    0605814OTE      OPERATIONAL              39,136          66,136
                          TEST
                          ACTIVITIES AND
                          ANALYSES.
         ..............      Advanced                            [5,000]
                             satellite
                             navigation
                             receiver.
         ..............      Joint Test                         [22,000]
                             and
                             Evaluation
                             DWR funding
                             restoration.
         ..............  SUBTOTAL                210,090         237,090
                          MANAGEMENT
                          SUPPORT.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL                   210,090         237,090
                          OPERATIONAL
                          TEST & EVAL,
                          DEFENSE.
         ..............
         ..............  TOTAL RDT&E....     106,224,793     106,660,645
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
              CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION  FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of
                                                    Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2021          Senate
  Line             Program Element                          Item                     Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, ARMY
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   16    0602145A                            NEXT GENERATION COMBAT VEHICLE               2,000           2,000
                                              TECHNOLOGY.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........           2,000           2,000
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   80    0603327A                            AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS                500             500
                                              ENGINEERING.
  114    0604785A                            INTEGRATED BASE DEFENSE (BUDGET              2,020           2,020
                                              ACTIVITY 4).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                  2,520           2,520
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
  131    0604741A                            AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, CONTROL AND            27,000          27,000
                                              INTELLIGENCE--ENG DEV.
  159    0605035A                            COMMON INFRARED COUNTERMEASURES              2,300           2,300
                                              (CIRCM).
  166    0605051A                            AIRCRAFT SURVIVABILITY DEVELOPMENT          64,625          64,625
  183    0304270A                            ELECTRONIC WARFARE DEVELOPMENT....           3,900           3,900
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &               97,825          97,825
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
  198    0605709A                            EXPLOITATION OF FOREIGN ITEMS.....           1,000           1,000
  209    0606003A                            COUNTERINTEL AND HUMAN INTEL                 4,137           4,137
                                              MODERNIZATION.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL MANAGEMENT SUPPORT.......           5,137           5,137
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  239    0203802A                            OTHER MISSILE PRODUCT IMPROVEMENT            2,300           2,300
                                              PROGRAMS.
  248    0303028A                            SECURITY AND INTELLIGENCE                   23,367          23,367
                                              ACTIVITIES.
  257    0305204A                            TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES.          34,100          34,100
  258    0305206A                            AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS...          15,575          15,575
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                75,342          75,342
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST          182,824         182,824
                                              & EVAL, ARMY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, NAVY
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   39    0603527N                            RETRACT LARCH.....................          36,500          36,500
   58    0603654N                            JOINT SERVICE EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE            14,461          14,461
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
   63    0603734N                            CHALK CORAL.......................           3,000           3,000
   71    0603795N                            LAND ATTACK TECHNOLOGY............           1,457           1,457
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 55,418          55,418
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & DEMONSTRATION
  142    0604755N                            SHIP SELF DEFENSE (DETECT &                  1,144           1,144
                                              CONTROL).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT &                1,144           1,144
                                              DEMONSTRATION.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  229    0206625M                            USMC INTELLIGENCE/ELECTRONIC                 3,000           3,000
                                              WARFARE SYSTEMS (MIP).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                 3,000           3,000
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST           59,562          59,562
                                              & EVAL, NAVY.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, AF
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   65    0305601F                            MISSION PARTNER ENVIRONMENTS......                           6,500
         ..................................      EDI: Mission Partner                                    [6,500]
                                                 Environment (MPE).
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                                  6,500
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  185    0205671F                            JOINT COUNTER RCIED ELECTRONIC               4,080           4,080
                                              WARFARE.
  228    0208288F                            INTEL DATA APPLICATIONS...........           1,224           1,224
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                 5,304           5,304
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST            5,304          11,804
                                              & EVAL, AF.
         ..................................
         ..................................  RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST &
                                              EVAL, DW
         ..................................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   10    0602134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT ADVANCED           3,699           3,699
                                              STUDIES.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL APPLIED RESEARCH.........           3,699           3,699
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
   26    0603122D8Z                          COMBATING TERRORISM TECHNOLOGY              19,288          19,288
                                              SUPPORT.
   28    0603134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                    3,861           3,861
                                              SIMULATION.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY                23,149          23,149
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT &
                                              PROTOTYPES
   97    0604134BR                           COUNTER IMPROVISED-THREAT                   19,931          19,931
                                              DEMONSTRATION, PROTOTYPE
                                              DEVELOPMENT, AND TESTING.
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL ADVANCED COMPONENT                 19,931          19,931
                                              DEVELOPMENT & PROTOTYPES.
         ..................................
         9999999999                          CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...............          24,057          24,057
         ..................................  OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
  260    1160408BB                           OPERATIONAL ENHANCEMENTS..........           1,186           1,186
  261    1160431BB                           WARRIOR SYSTEMS...................           5,796           5,796
  263    1160434BB                           UNMANNED ISR......................           5,000           5,000
         ..................................  SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS                36,039          36,039
                                              DEVELOPMENT.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST           82,818          82,818
                                              & EVAL, DW.
         ..................................
         ..................................  TOTAL RDT&E.......................         330,508         337,008
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2021          Senate
  Line                                     Item                                      Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         159,834         159,834
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         663,751         663,751
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         956,477         956,477
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................       1,157,635       1,167,935
              Joint Counter-UAS IOC acceleration...............................                         [10,300]
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................       1,453,024       1,453,024
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................       4,713,660       4,713,660
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         404,161         404,161
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................       1,413,359       1,413,359
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       8,220,093       8,346,093
              Child Development Center playground equipment and furniture                               [79,000]
              increases........................................................
              Child Youth Service improvements.................................                         [47,000]
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       3,581,071       3,815,531
              FSRM increase....................................................                         [62,360]
              MDTF EUCOM and INDOPACOM FSRM....................................                        [126,800]
              Revitalization of Army deployment infrastructure.................                         [45,300]
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................         411,844         411,844
   160    US AFRICA COMMAND....................................................         239,387         341,887
              AFRICOM force protection upgrades................................                          [2,500]
              AFRICOM ISR improvements.........................................                         [64,000]
              AFRICOM UFR CASEVAC improvements.................................                         [36,000]
   170    US EUROPEAN COMMAND..................................................         160,761         160,761
   180    US SOUTHERN COMMAND..................................................         197,826         197,826
   190    US FORCES KOREA......................................................          65,152          65,152
   200    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................         430,109         435,109
              Additional access and operations support.........................                          [5,000]
   210    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................         464,117         464,117
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      24,692,261      25,170,521
 
          MOBILIZATION
   220    STRATEGIC MOBILITY...................................................         402,236         402,236
   230    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS............................................         324,306         324,306
   240    INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS..............................................           3,653           3,653
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         730,195         730,195
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   250    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         165,142         165,142
   260    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          76,509          76,509
   270    ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING............................................          88,523          88,523
   280    SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS...............................         535,578         535,578
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         981,436         981,436
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................       1,204,768       1,204,768
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         215,195         215,195
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         575,232         575,232
   330    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         722,612         722,612
   340    EXAMINING............................................................         185,522         185,522
   350    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         221,503         221,503
   360    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         154,651         154,651
   370    JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER TRAINING CORPS................................         173,286         173,286
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       5,299,957       5,299,957
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         491,926         466,926
              Historical underexecution........................................                        [-25,000]
   400    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES............................................         812,613         812,613
   410    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..........................................         676,178         676,178
   420    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT................................................         437,774         437,774
   430    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         438,048         438,048
   440    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................       1,638,872       1,638,872
   450    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................         300,046         300,046
   460    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         701,103         700,103
              Historical underexecution........................................                         [-4,000]
              Servicewomen's commemorative partnerships........................                          [3,000]
   470    OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT................................................       1,887,133       1,887,133
   480    ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES...............................................         195,291         195,291
   490    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................         229,537         229,537
   500    FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT READINESS.............................         306,370         306,370
   510    INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS..................................         373,030         373,030
   520    MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS.......................................          32,719          32,719
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,069,915       1,069,915
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................       9,590,555       9,564,555
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -458,901
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                       [-185,801]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                       [-135,400]
              Foreign currency adjustments.....................................                       [-137,700]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -458,901
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY..................................      40,312,968      40,306,327
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................          10,784          10,784
   020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         530,425         530,425
   030    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         123,737         123,737
   040    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................         589,582         589,582
   050    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................          89,332          89,332
   060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         387,545         387,545
   070    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          97,569          97,569
   080    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................          43,148          43,148
   090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................         587,098         587,098
   100    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         327,180         332,440
              FSRM increase....................................................                          [5,260]
   110    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................          28,783          28,783
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................           2,745           2,745
   130    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................           7,438           7,438
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       2,825,366       2,830,626
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   140    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          15,530          15,530
   150    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          17,761          17,761
   160    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          14,256          14,256
   170    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           6,564           6,564
   180    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          55,240          55,240
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         109,351         109,351
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -16,699
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                        [-11,999]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                         [-4,700]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -16,699
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES..............................       2,934,717       2,923,278
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................         769,449         769,449
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................         204,604         204,604
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................         812,072         812,072
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................         103,650         103,650
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................          32,485          32,485
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................       1,011,142       1,011,142
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................         712,881         712,881
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................          47,732          47,732
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................         265,408         265,408
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................       1,106,704       1,106,704
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         876,032         887,252
              FSRM increase....................................................                         [11,220]
   120    MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS..............................       1,050,257       1,050,257
   130    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................           7,998          10,998
              Pilot program for National Guard cybersecurity...................                          [3,000]
   140    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................           7,756           7,756
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       7,008,170       7,022,390
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................           8,018           8,018
   160    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          74,309          74,309
   170    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          66,140          66,140
   180    MANPOWER MANAGEMENT..................................................           9,087           9,087
   190    OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT..............................................         251,714         251,714
   200    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................           2,576           2,576
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         411,844         411,844
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -74,172
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                        [-36,372]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                        [-37,800]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -74,172
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG..................................       7,420,014       7,360,062
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................       5,738,746       5,738,746
   020    FLEET AIR TRAINING...................................................       2,213,673       2,213,673
   030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES.......................          57,144          57,144
   040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT....................................         171,949         171,949
   050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT..................................................         838,767         838,767
   060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................       1,459,447       1,459,447
   070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................          57,789          57,789
   080    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................       1,264,665       1,264,665
   100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................       1,117,067       1,117,067
   110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE...............................................       7,859,104       7,859,104
   120    SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT........................................       2,262,196       2,262,196
   130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE.........................       1,521,360       1,521,360
   140    SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE.......................................         274,087         274,087
   150    WARFARE TACTICS......................................................         741,609         741,609
   160    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY.............................         401,382         401,382
   170    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................       1,546,273       1,546,273
   180    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................         177,951         177,951
   190    COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE OPERATIONS.................................          61,484          66,484
              PDI: Asia-Pacific Regional Initiative............................                          [5,000]
   200    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT..........................         102,330         110,630
              PDI: Joint Task Force Indo-Pacific (SOCPAC)......................                          [6,300]
              PDI: Singapore CTIF fusion center................................                          [2,000]
   210    MILITARY INFORMATION SUPPORT OPERATIONS..............................           8,810          26,510
              PDI: Countering Chinese malign influence in Indo-Pacific.........                         [17,700]
   220    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         567,496         567,496
   230    FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE..............................................       1,428,102       1,428,102
   240    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE..................................................         995,762         995,762
   250    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT.........................................         524,008         524,008
   260    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................       1,229,056       1,229,056
   270    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................       3,453,099       3,453,099
   280    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       4,627,966       4,627,966
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      40,701,322      40,732,322
 
          MOBILIZATION
   290    SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE........................................         849,993         849,993
   300    READY RESERVE FORCE..................................................         436,029         436,029
   310    SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS.......................................         286,416         286,416
   320    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS................................          99,402         111,002
              USNS Mercy SLEP..................................................                         [11,600]
   330    COAST GUARD SUPPORT..................................................          25,235          25,235
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,697,075       1,708,675
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   340    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         186,117         186,117
   350    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          13,206          13,206
   360    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS......................................         163,683         163,683
   370    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         947,841         947,841
   380    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         367,647         367,647
   390    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         254,928         254,928
   400    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         206,305         206,305
   410    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         103,799         103,799
   420    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................          66,060          66,060
   430    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          56,276          56,276
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       2,365,862       2,365,862
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   440    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................       1,249,410       1,249,410
   450    CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         189,625         189,625
   460    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................         499,904         499,904
   470    MEDICAL ACTIVITIES...................................................         196,747         196,747
   480    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         165,708         165,708
   500    PLANNING, ENGINEERING, AND PROGRAM SUPPORT...........................         519,716         524,716
              Energy Security Programs Office..................................                          [5,000]
   510    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT................................         751,184         751,184
   520    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES..................................         747,519         747,519
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................         608,670         608,670
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       4,928,483       4,933,483
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -629,787
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                        [-54,987]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                       [-526,100]
              Foreign currency adjustments.....................................                        [-48,700]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -629,787
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY..................................      49,692,742      49,110,555
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATIONAL FORCES...................................................         941,143         941,143
   020    FIELD LOGISTICS......................................................       1,277,798       1,277,798
   030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................         206,907         206,907
   040    MARITIME PREPOSITIONING..............................................         103,614         103,614
   050    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         215,974         215,974
   060    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION.............................         938,063         938,063
   070    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................       2,264,680       2,264,680
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       5,948,179       5,948,179
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   080    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          20,751          20,751
   090    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................           1,193           1,193
   100    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         110,149         110,149
   110    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................          69,509          69,509
   120    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................         412,613         412,613
   130    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         215,464         215,464
   140    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................          33,719          33,719
   150    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          25,784          25,784
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         889,182         889,182
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          32,005          32,005
   170    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         399,363         399,363
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          59,878          59,878
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         491,246         491,246
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -28,257
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                         [-7,457]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                         [-7,300]
              Foreign currency adjustments.....................................                        [-13,500]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -28,257
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS..........................       7,328,607       7,300,350
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................         635,070         635,070
   020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.............................................           8,713           8,713
   030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................         105,088         105,088
   040    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................             398             398
   050    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................          27,284          27,284
   070    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS................................................          17,894          17,894
   080    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................         132,862         132,862
   090    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................             453             453
   100    ENTERPRISE INFORMATION...............................................          26,073          26,073
   110    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          48,762          48,762
   120    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         103,580         103,580
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       1,106,177       1,106,177
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           1,927           1,927
   140    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................          15,895          15,895
   150    ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT...................................           3,047           3,047
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          20,869          20,869
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -30,938
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                         [-6,438]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                        [-24,500]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -30,938
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES..............................       1,127,046       1,096,108
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATING FORCES.....................................................         104,616         104,616
   020    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          17,053          17,053
   030    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          41,412          41,412
   040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         107,773         107,773
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         270,854         270,854
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          13,802          13,802
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          13,802          13,802
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0          -1,246
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                         [-1,046]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                           [-200]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0          -1,246
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE............................         284,656         283,410
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................         731,511         733,211
              Premature reduction of A-10 squadrons............................                          [1,700]
   020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES............................................       1,275,485       1,275,485
   030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS).......................       1,437,095       1,449,495
              Premature reduction of A-10 squadrons............................                         [12,400]
   050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................       3,241,216       3,343,016
              FSRM increase....................................................                        [101,800]
   060    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................         235,816         235,816
   070    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       1,508,342       1,477,897
              Transfer to OCO..................................................                        [-30,445]
   080    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM..................................................       4,458,457       4,564,157
              KC-10 tanker divestment reversal.................................                         [16,200]
              KC-135 tanker divestment reversal................................                         [36,600]
              Premature reduction of A-10 squadrons............................                         [52,900]
   090    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................       7,497,288       7,497,288
   100    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING.........................................         849,842         880,642
              PDI: Mission Partner Environment implementation..................                         [30,800]
   110    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS........................................       1,067,055       1,067,055
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................         698,579         698,579
   150    SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS................................................          34,194          34,194
   160    US NORTHCOM/NORAD....................................................         204,268         204,268
   170    US STRATCOM..........................................................         526,809         526,809
   180    US CYBERCOM..........................................................         314,524         356,224
              Additional access and operations support.........................                         [25,000]
              Hunt Forward missions............................................                         [13,800]
              Secure the DODIN.................................................                          [2,900]
   190    US CENTCOM...........................................................         186,116         186,116
   200    US SOCOM.............................................................           9,881           9,881
   210    US TRANSCOM..........................................................           1,046           1,046
   230    USSPACECOM...........................................................         249,022         249,022
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,289,339       1,289,339
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      25,815,885      26,079,540
 
          MOBILIZATION
   240    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS...................................................       1,350,031       1,350,031
   250    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS............................................         647,168         647,168
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,997,199       1,997,199
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................         142,548         142,548
   270    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................          25,720          25,720
   280    RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC)...............................         128,295         128,295
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................         417,335         417,335
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................         615,033         615,033
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................         298,795         298,795
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................          85,844          85,844
   330    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................         155,065         135,065
              Ahead of need....................................................                        [-20,000]
   340    EXAMINING............................................................           4,474           4,474
   350    OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY EDUCATION.....................................         219,349         219,349
   360    CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING......................................         361,570         361,570
   370    JUNIOR ROTC..........................................................          72,126          72,126
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................       2,526,154       2,506,154
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   380    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................         672,426         672,426
   390    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.........................................         145,130         145,130
   400    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         851,251         851,251
   410    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          28,554          28,554
   420    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.........................................       1,188,414       1,188,414
   430    CIVIL AIR PATROL.....................................................          28,772          28,772
   450    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT................................................         158,803         158,803
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................       1,338,009       1,338,009
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................       4,411,359       4,411,359
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -765,956
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                        [-89,856]
              COVID-related throughput carryover adjustment....................                        [-75,800]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                       [-560,200]
              Foreign currency adjustments.....................................                        [-40,100]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -765,956
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE.............................      34,750,597      34,228,296
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    GLOBAL C3I & EARLY WARNING...........................................         276,109         276,109
   030    SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS..............................................         177,056         177,056
   040    SPACE OPERATIONS.....................................................         475,338         475,338
   050    EDUCATION & TRAINING.................................................          18,660          18,660
   060    SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....................................................         137,315         137,315
   070    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................         250,324         250,324
   080    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS & SYSTEM SUPPORT................................       1,063,969       1,063,969
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       2,398,771       2,398,771
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES
   090    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................         132,523         132,523
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE WIDE ACTIVITIES..................         132,523         132,523
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0            -400
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                           [-400]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0            -400
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE...........................       2,531,294       2,530,894
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................       1,782,016       1,782,016
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         215,209         215,209
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................         453,896         509,096
              KC-10 tanker divestment reversal.................................                         [48,400]
              KC-135 tanker divestment reversal................................                          [3,400]
              Premature reduction of A-10 squadrons............................                          [3,400]
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         103,414         107,614
              FSRM increase....................................................                          [4,200]
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................         224,977         224,977
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         452,468         452,468
   070    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................           2,259           2,259
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,234,239       3,293,639
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
   080    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          74,258          74,258
   090    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          23,121          18,121
              Ahead of need....................................................                         [-5,000]
   100    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS MGMT (ARPC)...............................          12,006          12,006
   110    OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY COMP).................................           6,165           6,165
   120    AUDIOVISUAL..........................................................             495             495
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...................         116,045         111,045
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0         -73,163
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                        [-10,863]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                        [-62,300]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0         -73,163
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE............................       3,350,284       3,331,521
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS..................................................       2,476,205       2,476,205
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................         611,325         611,325
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................       1,138,919       1,138,919
   040    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         323,605         332,505
              FSRM increase....................................................                          [8,900]
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       1,100,828       1,100,828
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................         962,438         962,438
   070    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................          27,028          27,028
   080    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................          16,380          19,380
              Pilot program for National Guard cybersecurity...................                          [3,000]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       6,656,728       6,668,628
 
          ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES
   090    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................          48,218          48,218
   100    RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING...........................................          48,696          33,696
              Ahead of need....................................................                        [-15,000]
          SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-WIDE ACTIVITIES..................          96,914          81,914
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -122,052
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                        [-15,852]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                       [-106,200]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -122,052
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG...................................       6,753,642       6,628,490
 
          OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................         439,111         439,111
   020    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2.........................................         535,728         535,728
   030    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CYBER.........................................          24,728          24,728
   040    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.............       1,069,971       1,072,971
              SOCOM Syria exfiltration reconsitution...........................                          [3,000]
   050    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES.....................           9,800           9,800
   060    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE..............................         561,907         561,907
   070    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE...............................         685,097         707,097
              Airborne ISR restoration.........................................                         [22,000]
   080    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MANAGEMENT/OPERATIONAL HEADQUARTERS.......         158,971         158,971
   090    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.......................       1,062,748       1,062,748
   100    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES............................       2,598,385       2,599,685
              Airborne ISR restoration.........................................                          [1,300]
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       7,146,446       7,172,746
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   120    DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY.......................................         162,963         162,963
   130    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................          95,684          95,684
   140    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................          33,301          33,301
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................         291,948         291,948
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   160    CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS..............................................         147,993         179,893
              Innovative Readiness Training....................................                         [16,900]
              STARBASE.........................................................                         [15,000]
   180    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY........................................         604,835         604,835
   190    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY--CYBER.................................           3,282           3,282
   210    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY...................................       1,370,681       1,427,081
              DWR restore activities...........................................                         [56,400]
   220    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY--CYBER............................          22,532          22,532
   230    DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY......................         949,008         952,008
              DWR restore: Congressional oversight.............................                          [3,000]
   250    DEFENSE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY AGENCY--CYBER...............           9,577           9,577
   260    DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY.....................................         799,952         799,952
   270    DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES ACTIVITY--CYBER..............................          20,806          20,806
   280    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY...................................       1,883,190       1,923,190
              Secure the DODIN.................................................                         [40,000]
   290    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY--CYBER............................         582,639         577,939
              JRSS SIPR funding................................................                         [-4,700]
   330    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY........................................          37,637          37,637
   340    DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY.............................................         382,084         385,684
              DWR restore: blankets for homeless...............................                          [3,600]
   350    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY...............................................         196,997         196,997
   360    DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING AGENCY..................................         129,225         129,225
   370    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY..................................         598,559         598,559
              Defense Institute for International Legal Studies................                          [2,000]
              Institute for Security Governance................................                         [-2,000]
              PDI: Maritime Security Initiative INDOPACOM UFR..................                        [163,000]
              PDI: Transfer from Sec. 333 to Maritime Security Initiative......                       [-163,000]
   400    DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY ADMINISTRATION...........................          38,432          38,432
   410    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY......................................         591,780         591,780
   430    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY--CYBER...............................          24,635          24,635
   440    DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION ACTIVITY.............................       2,941,429       3,012,929
              DWR restore: maintain student-teacher ratios in DODEA schools....                          [1,500]
              Impact Aid for children with severe disabilities.................                         [20,000]
              Impact Aid for schools with military dependent students..........                         [50,000]
   450    MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY...............................................         505,858         505,858
   480    OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT........................................          40,272          90,272
              Defense Community Infrastruture Program infusion.................                         [50,000]
   490    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE...................................       1,540,446       1,613,946
              AI National Security Commission..................................                          [2,500]
              Bien Hoa dioxin cleanup..........................................                         [15,000]
              Black Start ERREs................................................                          [2,000]
              CDC PFAS health assessment.......................................                         [10,000]
              Commission on Confederate symbols and displays...................                          [2,000]
              Cooperative program for Vietnam personnel MIA....................                          [2,000]
              DWR restore: Congressional background investigations.............                         [-3,000]
              Energy performance contracts.....................................                         [10,000]
              ESOH personnel in ASD(S).........................................                          [2,000]
              FY20 NDAA Sec. 575 interstate spousal licensing..................                          [4,000]
              National Cyber Director independent study........................                          [2,000]
              REPI.............................................................                         [25,000]
   500    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE--CYBER............................          51,630          51,630
   510    SPACE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.............................................          48,166          48,166
   530    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES.....................................         340,291         343,291
              DWR restore: support to commissions..............................                          [3,000]
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................      17,348,749      17,348,749
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................      31,210,685      31,538,885
 
          UNDISTRIBUTED
   999    UNDISTRIBUTED........................................................               0        -172,839
              COVID-related ops/training slowdown..............................                       [-129,339]
              Excessive standard price for fuel................................                        [-14,800]
              Foreign currency adjustments.....................................                        [-28,700]
          SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED...............................................               0        -172,839
 
          TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE........................      38,649,079      38,830,740
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE
   010    US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE....................          15,211          15,211
          SUBTOTAL US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE...........          15,211          15,211
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................          15,211          15,211
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID
   010    OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID........................         109,900         109,900
          SUBTOTAL OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, DISASTER AND CIVIC AID...............         109,900         109,900
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         109,900         109,900
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION
   010    COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION.........................................         238,490         288,490
              DWR restore: Biological Threat Reduction Program.................                         [50,000]
          SUBTOTAL COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION................................         238,490         288,490
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         238,490         288,490
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
   010    ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD.................................................          58,181         156,680
              DWR restore OSD-level acquisition workforce activities...........                         [98,499]
          SUBTOTAL ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT...........................          58,181         156,680
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................          58,181         156,680
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY
   050    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY......................................         207,518         207,518
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, ARMY.............................         207,518         207,518
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         207,518         207,518
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY
   060    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY......................................         335,932         335,932
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, NAVY.............................         335,932         335,932
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         335,932         335,932
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE
   070    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE.................................         303,926         303,926
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR FORCE........................         303,926         303,926
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         303,926         303,926
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE
   080    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE...................................           9,105           9,105
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, DEFENSE..........................           9,105           9,105
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................           9,105           9,105
 
          MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
          ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES
   090    ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES........................         216,587         216,587
          SUBTOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION FORMERLY USED SITES...............         216,587         216,587
 
          TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS...................................         216,587         216,587
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........................................     196,630,496     195,573,380
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
              OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     FY 2021          Senate
  Line                                     Item                                      Request        Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................       4,114,001       4,114,001
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................          32,811          32,811
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................       2,542,760       2,545,410
              EDI: Support to deterrent activities.............................                          [2,650]
   050    LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......................................         162,557         162,557
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................         204,396         204,396
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................       5,716,734       5,721,224
              EDI: Support to deterrent activities PE 0202218A.................                          [1,490]
              EDI: Support to deterrent activities PE 1001010A.................                          [3,000]
   080    LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS........................................         180,048         180,048
   090    LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE........................................          81,125          81,125
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................         219,029         219,029
   110    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         301,017         301,017
   130    ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES................................................         966,649         966,649
   140    COMMANDER'S EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM...............................           2,500           2,000
              Hero payments funded by ASFF.....................................                           [-500]
   150    RESET................................................................         403,796         403,796
   160    US AFRICA COMMAND....................................................         100,422         100,422
   170    US EUROPEAN COMMAND..................................................         120,043         144,143
              EDI: Continuity of operations support............................                          [2,100]
              EDI: Modernizing Mission Partner Environment (MPE)...............                         [22,000]
   200    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS.........................          98,461          98,461
   210    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES--CYBERSECURITY.................................          21,256          21,256
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      15,267,605      15,298,345
 
          MOBILIZATION
   230    ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS............................................         103,052         103,052
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................         103,052         103,052
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................          89,943          89,943
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................           2,550           2,550
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          92,493          92,493
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   390    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................         521,090         521,090
   400    CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES............................................          43,897          43,897
   410    LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..........................................          68,423          68,423
   420    AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT................................................          29,162          29,162
   440    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................          11,447          11,447
   470    OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT................................................           5,839           5,839
   490    REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT...............................................          48,782          48,782
   510    INTERNATIONAL MILITARY HEADQUARTERS..................................          50,000          50,000
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................         895,964         895,964
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................       1,674,604       1,674,604
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY..................................      17,137,754      17,168,494
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................          17,193          17,193
   060    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................             440             440
   090    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................          15,766          15,766
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          33,399          33,399
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES..............................          33,399          33,399
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MANEUVER UNITS.......................................................          25,746          25,746
   020    MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.............................................              40              40
   030    ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE...............................................             983             983
   040    THEATER LEVEL ASSETS.................................................              22              22
   060    AVIATION ASSETS......................................................          20,624          20,624
   070    FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................................           7,914           7,914
   100    BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT..............................................          24,417          24,417
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          79,746          79,746
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   170    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................              46              46
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................              46              46
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG..................................          79,792          79,792
 
          AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND
          AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY
   010    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................       1,065,932       1,065,932
   020    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................          64,501          64,501
   030    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................          47,854          47,854
   040    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................          56,780          56,780
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL ARMY........................................       1,235,067       1,235,067
 
          AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE
   050    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................         434,500         434,500
   060    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................             448             448
   070    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................         108,231         108,231
   080    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................          58,993          58,993
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN NATIONAL POLICE......................................         602,172         602,172
 
          AFGHAN AIR FORCE
   090    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................         534,102         534,102
   100    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................           9,532           9,532
   110    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................          58,487          58,487
   120    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................         233,803         233,803
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN AIR FORCE............................................         835,924         835,924
 
          AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES
   130    SUSTAINMENT..........................................................         680,024         680,024
   140    INFRASTRUCTURE.......................................................           2,532           2,532
   150    EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION.........................................         486,808         486,808
   160    TRAINING AND OPERATIONS..............................................         173,085         173,085
          SUBTOTAL AFGHAN SPECIAL SECURITY FORCES..............................       1,342,449       1,342,449
 
          TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND...............................       4,015,612       4,015,612
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS..................................         382,062         382,062
   030    AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA & ENGINEERING SERVICES.......................             832             832
   040    AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY SUPPORT....................................          17,840          17,840
   050    AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT..................................................         210,692         210,692
   060    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................         170,580         170,580
   070    AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT....................................           5,854           5,854
   080    AVIATION LOGISTICS...................................................          33,707          33,707
   090    MISSION AND OTHER SHIP OPERATIONS....................................       5,817,696       5,817,696
   100    SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT & TRAINING...................................          20,741          20,741
   110    SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE...............................................       2,072,470       2,072,470
   130    COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE.........................          59,254          59,254
   140    SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE.......................................          18,000          18,000
   150    WARFARE TACTICS......................................................          17,324          17,324
   160    OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND OCEANOGRAPHY.............................          22,581          22,581
   170    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................         772,441         772,441
   180    EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT...................           5,788           5,788
   200    COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT MISSION SUPPORT..........................          24,800          24,800
   220    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................             369             369
   240    WEAPONS MAINTENANCE..................................................         567,247         567,247
   250    OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT.........................................          12,571          12,571
   270    SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND MODERNIZATION...........................          70,041          70,041
   280    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................         218,792         218,792
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      10,521,682      10,521,682
 
          MOBILIZATION
   320    EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES SYSTEMS................................          22,589          22,589
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................          22,589          22,589
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   370    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................          53,204          53,204
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          53,204          53,204
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   440    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           9,983           9,983
   460    MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT...........................           7,805           7,805
   480    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          72,097          72,097
   510    ACQUISITION, LOGISTICS, AND OVERSIGHT................................          11,354          11,354
   520    INVESTIGATIVE AND SECURITY SERVICES..................................           1,591           1,591
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         102,830         102,830
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY..................................      10,700,305      10,700,305
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATIONAL FORCES...................................................         727,989         745,489
              EDI: Globally Integrated Exercise 20-4/Austere Challenge 21.3....                         [10,000]
              EDI: Marine European training program............................                          [7,500]
   020    FIELD LOGISTICS......................................................         195,001         195,001
   030    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          55,183          55,183
   050    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................          10,000          10,000
   070    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................          24,569          24,569
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       1,012,742       1,030,242
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   120    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................          28,458          28,458
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          28,458          28,458
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160    SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION...........................................          61,400          61,400
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................          61,400          61,400
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS..........................       1,102,600       1,120,100
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.............................................             522             522
   030    AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE...........................................          11,861          11,861
   080    COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES................................................           9,109           9,109
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          21,492          21,492
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES..............................          21,492          21,492
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    OPERATING FORCES.....................................................           7,627           7,627
   040    BASE OPERATING SUPPORT...............................................           1,080           1,080
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................           8,707           8,707
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE............................           8,707           8,707
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES................................................         125,551         125,551
   020    COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES............................................         916,538         916,538
   030    AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT, MAINTAIN SKILLS).......................          93,970          93,970
   040    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................       3,528,059       3,528,059
   050    FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..................         147,264         147,264
   060    CYBERSPACE SUSTAINMENT...............................................          10,842          10,842
   070    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................       7,187,100       7,217,545
              Transfer from base...............................................                         [30,445]
   080    FLYING HOUR PROGRAM..................................................       2,031,548       2,031,548
   090    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................       1,540,444       1,540,444
   100    GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING.........................................          13,709          13,709
   110    OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS........................................         345,800         345,800
   120    CYBERSPACE ACTIVITIES................................................          17,936          17,936
   130    TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER SPECIAL ACTIVITIES..........................          36,820          36,820
   140    LAUNCH FACILITIES....................................................              70              70
   150    SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS................................................           1,450           1,450
   160    US NORTHCOM/NORAD....................................................             725             725
   170    US STRATCOM..........................................................             856             856
   180    US CYBERCOM..........................................................          35,189          35,189
   190    US CENTCOM...........................................................         126,934         126,934
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................      16,160,805      16,191,250
 
          MOBILIZATION
   240    AIRLIFT OPERATIONS...................................................       1,271,439       1,271,439
   250    MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS............................................         120,866         120,866
          SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION................................................       1,392,305       1,392,305
 
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   260    OFFICER ACQUISITION..................................................             200             200
   270    RECRUIT TRAINING.....................................................             352             352
   290    SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING...........................................          27,010          27,010
   300    FLIGHT TRAINING......................................................             844             844
   310    PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION...................................           1,199           1,199
   320    TRAINING SUPPORT.....................................................           1,320           1,320
          SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND RECRUITING.....................................          30,925          30,925
 
          ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   380    LOGISTICS OPERATIONS.................................................         164,701         164,701
   390    TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.........................................          11,782          11,782
   400    ADMINISTRATION.......................................................           3,886           3,886
   410    SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS...........................................             355             355
   420    OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.........................................         100,831          85,831
              OSC-I transition to normalized security cooperation..............                        [-15,000]
   450    INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT................................................          29,928          29,928
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................          34,502          34,502
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES....................................         345,985         330,985
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE.............................      17,930,020      17,945,465
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    GLOBAL C3I & EARLY WARNING...........................................             227             227
   030    SPACE LAUNCH OPERATIONS..............................................             321             321
   040    SPACE OPERATIONS.....................................................          15,135          15,135
   070    DEPOT MAINTENANCE....................................................          18,268          18,268
   080    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS & SYSTEM SUPPORT................................          43,164          43,164
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          77,115          77,115
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, SPACE FORCE...........................          77,115          77,115
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE
          OPERATING FORCES
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................          24,408          24,408
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................           5,682           5,682
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................          30,090          30,090
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE............................          30,090          30,090
 
          OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
          OPERATING FORCES
   020    MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS...........................................           3,739           3,739
   030    DEPOT PURCHASE EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.................................          61,862          61,862
   050    CONTRACTOR LOGISTICS SUPPORT AND SYSTEM SUPPORT......................          97,108          97,108
   060    BASE SUPPORT.........................................................          12,933          12,933
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................         175,642         175,642
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG...................................         175,642         175,642
 
          OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
          OPERATING FORCES
   010    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF................................................           3,799           3,799
   020    JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF--CE2T2.........................................           6,634           6,634
   040    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND COMBAT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.............         898,024         898,024
   060    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND INTELLIGENCE..............................       1,244,553       1,244,553
   070    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND MAINTENANCE...............................         354,951         381,951
              Airborne ISR restoration.........................................                         [27,000]
   090    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.......................         104,535         104,535
   100    SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND THEATER FORCES............................         757,744         757,744
          SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES............................................       3,370,240       3,397,240
 
          ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   180    DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY........................................           1,247           1,247
   210    DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT AGENCY...................................          21,723          21,723
   280    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY...................................          56,256          56,256
   290    DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY--CYBER............................           3,524           3,524
   330    DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY........................................         156,373         156,373
   350    DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY...............................................           3,555           3,555
   370    DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY..................................       1,557,763       1,880,263
              Transfer from CTEF for Iraq train and equip requirements.........                        [322,500]
   410    DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY......................................         297,486         297,486
   490    OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE...................................          16,984          16,984
   530    WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS SERVICES.....................................           1,997           1,997
  9999    CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..................................................         535,106         535,106
          SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES..................................       2,652,014       2,974,514
 
          TOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE........................       6,022,254       6,371,754
 
          TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE........................................      57,334,782      57,747,967
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2021           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....     150,524,104      147,976,014
COVID related endstrength decreases...                        [-755,000]
Foreign currency adjustments, Air                              [-81,800]
 Force................................
Foreign currency adjustments, Army....                         [-44,400]
Foreign currency adjustments, Marine                           [-13,900]
 Corps................................
Foreign currency adjustments, Navy....                         [-41,300]
Military personnel historical                               [-1,611,690]
 underexecution.......................
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                150,524,104      147,976,014
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND
 CONTRIBUTIONS
MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE HEALTH FUND        8,372,741        8,372,741
 CONTRIBUTIONS........................
SUBTOTAL MEDICARE-ELIGIBLE RETIREE           8,372,741        8,372,741
 HEALTH FUND CONTRIBUTIONS............
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............     158,896,845      156,348,755
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2021           Senate
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY PERSONNEL
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS
MILITARY PERSONNEL APPROPRIATIONS.....       4,602,593        4,602,593
SUBTOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL                  4,602,593        4,602,593
 APPROPRIATIONS.......................
 
TOTAL MILITARY PERSONNEL..............       4,602,593        4,602,593
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
       SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS  (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2021         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   010   INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS..........          32,551           5,551
             One-time COVID-related                            [-27,000]
             carryover decrease.........
   020   SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY........          24,166           1,166
             One-time COVID-related                            [-23,000]
             carryover decrease.........
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           56,717           6,717
          ARMY..........................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
   020   SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS.........          95,712           5,712
             Air Force cash corpus for                          [10,000]
             energy optimization........
             One-time COVID-related                           [-100,000]
             carryover decrease.........
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,          191,424         101,424
          AIR FORCE.....................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-
          WIDE
   020   SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT--DEF...          49,821          49,821
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           49,821          49,821
          DEFENSE-WIDE..................
 
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
   010   WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA.....       1,146,660       1,146,660
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,        1,146,660       1,146,660
          DECA..........................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....       1,444,622       1,304,622
 
         CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS
          DESTRUCTION
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
     1   CHEM DEMILITARIZATION--O&M.....         106,691         106,691
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                    106,691         106,691
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST,
          AND EVALUATION
     2   CHEM DEMILITARIZATION--RDT&E...         782,193         782,193
         SUBTOTAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT,         782,193         782,193
          TEST, AND EVALUATION..........
 
         PROCUREMENT
     3   CHEM DEMILITARIZATION--PROC....             616             616
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........             616             616
 
         TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS           889,500         889,500
          DESTRUCTION...................
 
         DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
          ACTIVITIES, DEF
         DRUG INTRDCTN
   010   COUNTER-NARCOTICS SUPPORT......         546,203         562,003
             PDI: Joint Interagency Task                        [13,000]
             Force--West Project 3309...
             PDI: Joint Interagency Task                         [2,800]
             Force--West Project 9202...
         SUBTOTAL DRUG INTRDCTN.........         546,203         562,003
 
         DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM
   020   DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM..         123,704         123,704
         SUBTOTAL DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION          123,704         123,704
          PROGRAM.......................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          PROGRAM
   030   NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG              94,211          94,211
          PROGRAM.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-         94,211          94,211
          DRUG PROGRAM..................
 
         NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG
          SCHOOLS
   040   NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-DRUG               5,511           5,511
          SCHOOLS.......................
         SUBTOTAL NATIONAL GUARD COUNTER-          5,511           5,511
          DRUG SCHOOLS..................
 
         TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-          769,629         785,429
          DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEF..........
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
   010   OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL         368,279         368,279
   030   OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR                   1,204           1,204
          GENERAL--CYBER................
   040   OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL           1,098           1,098
   050   OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL             858             858
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                  371,439         371,439
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR           371,439         371,439
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   IN-HOUSE CARE..................       9,560,564       9,560,564
   020   PRIVATE SECTOR CARE............      15,841,887      15,841,887
   030   CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT....       1,338,269       1,338,269
   040   INFORMATION MANAGEMENT.........       2,039,910       2,039,910
   050   MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES..........         330,627         330,627
   060   EDUCATION AND TRAINING.........         315,691         315,691
   070   BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS.       1,922,605       1,927,605
             National Disaster Medical                           [5,000]
             System pilot program.......
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                 31,349,553      31,354,553
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         RDT&E
   080   R&D RESEARCH...................           8,913           8,913
   090   R&D EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT.....          73,984          73,984
   100   R&D ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT.......         225,602         225,602
   110   R&D DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION...         132,331         132,331
   120   R&D ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT....          55,748          55,748
   130   R&D MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT.....          48,672          48,672
   140   R&D CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT...          17,215          17,215
         SUBTOTAL RDT&E.................         562,465         562,465
 
         PROCUREMENT
   150   PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING........          22,932          22,932
   160   PROC REPLACEMENT &                      215,618         215,618
          MODERNIZATION.................
   170   PROC MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM--            70,872          70,872
          DESKTOP TO DATACENTER.........
   180   PROC DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT          308,504         308,504
          SYSTEM MODERNIZATION..........
         SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...........         617,926         617,926
 
         SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
          PILOT PROGRAMS
   190   SOFTWARE & DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY           160,428         160,428
          PILOT PROGRAMS................
         SUBTOTAL SOFTWARE & DIGITAL             160,428         160,428
          TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAMS.....
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...      32,690,372      32,695,372
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....      36,711,765      36,592,565
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2021         Senate
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND
         WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
   020   SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY........          20,090          20,090
         SUBTOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND,           20,090          20,090
          ARMY..........................
 
         TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND.....          20,090          20,090
 
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
         OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
   010   OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL          24,069          24,069
         SUBTOTAL OFFICE OF THE                   24,069          24,069
          INSPECTOR GENERAL.............
 
         TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR            24,069          24,069
          GENERAL.......................
 
         DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
   010   IN-HOUSE CARE..................          65,072          65,072
   020   PRIVATE SECTOR CARE............         296,828         296,828
   030   CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT....           3,198           3,198
         SUBTOTAL OPERATION &                    365,098         365,098
          MAINTENANCE...................
 
         TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM...         365,098         365,098
 
         COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
         COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND EQUIP
          FUND (CTEF)
   010   IRAQ...........................         645,000         322,500
             Transfer traditional BPC                         [-322,500]
             activities to DSCA.........
   020   SYRIA..........................         200,000         200,000
         SUBTOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND         845,000         522,500
          EQUIP FUND (CTEF).............
 
         TOTAL COUNTER ISIS TRAIN AND            845,000         522,500
          EQUIP FUND (CTEF).............
 
         TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.....       1,254,257         931,757
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                    FY 2021         Senate
          Account                  Installation              Project Title            Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                             Alaska
Army                           Fort Wainwright         Child Development Center.               0          55,000
Army                           Fort Wainwright         Unaccompanied Enlisted                  0          59,000
                                                        Personnel Housing.
                             Arizona
Army                           Yuma Proving Ground     Ready Building...........          14,000          14,000
                             California
Army                           Military Ocean          Ammunition Holding                      0          46,000
                                Terminal Concord        Facility.
                             Colorado
Army                           Fort Carson             Physical Fitness Facility          28,000          28,000
                             Florida
Army                           JIATF-S Operations      Planning & Design........               0           8,000
                                Center
                             Georgia
Army                           Fort Gillem             Forensic Laboratory......          71,000          71,000
Army                           Fort Gordon             Adv Individual Training            80,000          80,000
                                                        Barracks Cplx, Ph3.
                             Hawaii
Army                           Aliamanu Military       Child Development Center--              0          71,000
                                Reservation             School Age.
Army                           Schofield Barracks      Child Development Center.               0          39,000
Army                           Wheeler Army Air Field  Aircraft Maintenance               89,000          89,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Italy
Army                           Casmera Renato Dal Din  Access Control Point.....               0          10,200
                             Louisiana
Army                           Fort Polk               Information Systems                25,000          25,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Oklahoma
Army                           McAlester AAP           Ammunition Demolition              35,000          35,000
                                                        Shop.
                             Pennsylvania
Army                           Carlisle Barracks       General Instruction                38,000           8,000
                                                        Building (Inc 2).
                             South Carolina
Army                           Fort Jackson            Trainee Barracks Complex                0           7,000
                                                        3, Ph2.
                             Virginia
Army                           Humphreys Engineer      Training Support Facility          51,000          51,000
                                Center
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......         129,436          59,436
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support......          39,000          39,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  50,900          74,900
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY                                                                      650,336         869,536
                               ......................
NAVY
                             Bahrain Island
Navy                           SW Asia                 Ship to Shore Utility              68,340          68,340
                                                        Services.
                             California
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          Combat Water Survival                   0          25,200
                                                        Training Facility.
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          Warehouse Consolidation                 0          21,800
                                                        and Modernization.
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          I MEF Consolidated                 37,000          37,000
                                                        Information Center (INC).
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          1st MARDIV Operations              68,530          68,530
                                                        Complex.
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Simulator Facility           59,150          59,150
                                                        & Electrical Upgrade.
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Hangar 6 Phase 2            128,070          53,000
                                                        (Mod 3/4).
Navy                           Point Mugu              Directed Energy Test                    0          26,700
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Port Hueneme            Combat Vehicle                          0          43,500
                                                        Maintenance Facilities.
Navy                           San Diego               Pier 6 Replacement.......         128,500          63,500
Navy                           Seal Beach              Magazines................               0          46,800
Navy                           Twentynine Palms        Wastewater Treatment               76,500          76,500
                                                        Plant.
                             Greece
Navy                           Souda Bay               Communication Center.....          50,180          50,180
                             Guam
Navy                           Andersen Air Force      Ordnance Operations Admin          21,280          21,280
                                Base
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   DAR Road Strengthening...          70,760          70,760
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   DAR Bridge Improvements..          40,180          40,180
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Central Fuel Station.....          35,950          17,950
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Distribution Warehouse...          77,930          77,930
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Combined EOD Facility....          37,600          37,600
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Bachelor Enlisted                  80,000          10,000
                                                        Quarters (Inc).
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Joint Communication               166,000          26,000
                                                        Upgrade.
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Base Warehouse...........          55,410          55,410
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Individual Combat Skills           17,430          17,430
                                                        Training.
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Central Issue Facility...          45,290          45,290
                             Hawaii
Navy                           Joint Base Pearl        Waterfront Improvements            65,910          65,910
                                Harbor-Hickam           Wharves S8-S10.
Navy                           Joint Base Pearl        Waterfront Improve,                48,990          48,990
                                Harbor-Hickam           Wharves S1,S11-13,S20-21.
                             Honduras
Navy                           Comalapa                Long Range Maritime                     0          28,000
                                                        Patrol Aircraft Hangar
                                                        and Ramp.
                             Japan
Navy                           Yokosuka                Pier 5 (Berths 2 and 3)            74,692          44,692
                                                        (Inc).
                             Maine
Navy                           Kittery                 Multi-Mission Drydock #1          160,000         160,000
                                                        Exten., Ph 1 (Inc).
Navy                           NCTAMS LANT Detachment  Perimeter Security.......               0          26,100
                                Cutler
                             Nevada
Navy                           Fallon                  Range Training Complex,            29,040          29,040
                                                        Phase 1.
                             North Carolina
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            II MEF Operations Center           20,000          20,000
                                                        Replacement (Inc).
Navy                           Cherry Point            Fitness Center                          0          51,900
                                                        Replacement and Training
                                                        Pool.
                             Spain
Navy                           Rota                    MH-60R Squadron Support            60,110          60,110
                                                        Facilities.
                             Virginia
Navy                           Norfolk                 Sub Logistics Support....               0           9,400
Navy                           Norfolk                 MH60 & CMV-22B Corrosion           17,671          17,671
                                                        Control & Paint Facility.
Navy                           Norfolk                 E-2D Training Facility...          30,400          30,400
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  38,983          38,983
                                Locations               Construction.
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........         165,710         165,710
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY                                                                    1,975,606       1,856,936
                               ......................
AIR FORCE
                             Colorado
Air Force                      Schriever Air Force     Consolidated Space                 88,000          88,000
                                Base                    Operations Facility,
                                                        (Inc 2).
Air Force                      United States Air       Cadet Preparatory School                0          49,000
                                Force Academy           Dormitory.
                             Guam
Air Force                      Joint Region Marianas   Stand Off Weapons                  56,000          56,000
                                                        Complex, MSA 2.
                             Mariana Islands
Air Force                      Tinian                  Fuel Tanks With Pipeline            7,000           7,000
                                                        & Hydrant Sys, (Inc 2).
Air Force                      Tinian                  Airfield Development               20,000          20,000
                                                        Phase 1, (Inc 2).
Air Force                      Tinian                  Parking Apron, (Inc 2)...          15,000          15,000
                             Montana
Air Force                      Malmstrom Air Force     Weapons Storage &                  25,000          25,000
                                Base                    Maintenance Facility,
                                                        (Inc 2).
                             New Jersey
Air Force                      Joint Base McGuire-Dix- Munitions Storage Area...          22,000          22,000
                                Lakehurst
                             Qatar
Air Force                      Al Udeid                Cargo Marshalling Yard...          26,000          26,000
                             South Dakota
Air Force                      Ellsworth Air Force     B-21 2-Bay LO Restoration               0          10,000
                                Base                    Facility.
                             Texas
Air Force                      Joint Base San Antonio  BMT Recruit Dormitory 8,           36,000          36,000
                                                        (Inc 2).
Air Force                      Joint Base San Antonio  T-X ADAL Ground Based              19,500          19,500
                                                        Trng Sys Sim.
                             Utah
Air Force                      Hill Air Force Base     GBSD Organic Software                   0          20,000
                                                        Sustainment Center.
Air Force                      Hill Air Force Base     GBSD Mission Integration           68,000          68,000
                                                        Facility, (Inc 2).
                             Virginia
Air Force                      Joint Base Langley-     Access Control Point Main          19,500          19,500
                                Eustis                  Gate With Land Acq.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force                      Unspecified Worldwide   Cost to Complete.........               0          29,422
                                Locations
Air Force                      Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........         296,532         116,532
                                Locations
Air Force                      Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  68,600          68,600
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE                                                                 767,132         695,554
                               ......................
DEFENSE-WIDE
                             Alabama
Defense-Wide                   Anniston Army Depot     Demilitarization Facility          18,000          18,000
                             Alaska
Defense-Wide                   Fort Greely             Communications Center....          48,000          48,000
                             Albama
Defense-Wide                   Fort Rucker             Construct 10mw Generation               0          24,000
                                                        & Microgrid.
                             Arizona
Defense-Wide                   Fort Huachuca           Laboratory Building......          33,728          33,728
Defense-Wide                   Yuma                    SOF Hangar...............          49,500          49,500
                             Arkansas
Defense-Wide                   Fort Smith Air          PV Arrays and Battery                   0           2,600
                                National Guard Base     Storage.
                             California
Defense-Wide                   Beale Air Force Base    Bulk Fuel Tank...........          22,800          22,800
                             Colorado
Defense-Wide                   Fort Carson             SOF Tactical Equipment             15,600          15,600
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
                             CONUS Unspecified
Defense-Wide                   CONUS Unspecified       Training Target Structure          14,400          14,400
                             Florida
Defense-Wide                   Hurlburt Field          SOF Special Tactics Ops            44,810          44,810
                                                        Facility (23 STS).
Defense-Wide                   Hurlburt Field          SOF Combat Aircraft                38,310          38,310
                                                        Parking Apron-North.
                             Georgia
Defense-Wide                   Fort Benning            Construct 4.8mw                         0          17,000
                                                        Generation & Microgrid.
                             Germany
Defense-Wide                   Rhine Ordnance          Medical Center                    200,000               0
                                Barracks                Replacement (Inc 9).
                             Japan
Defense-Wide                   Def Fuel Support Point  Fuel Wharf...............          49,500          49,500
                                Tsurumi
Defense-Wide                   Yokosuka                Kinnick High School (Inc)          30,000               0
                             Kentucky
Defense-Wide                   Fort Knox               Van Voorhis Elementary             69,310          69,310
                                                        School.
                             Maryland
Defense-Wide                   Bethesda Naval          MEDCEN Addition/                  180,000          50,000
                                Hospital                Alteration (Inc 4).
Defense-Wide                   Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize                 250,000         250,000
                                                        Building #3 (Inc).
                             Mississippi
Defense-Wide                   MTA Camp Shelby         Construct 10mw Generation               0          30,000
                                                        Plant and Microgrid
                                                        System.
                             Missouri
Defense-Wide                   Fort Leonard Wood       Hospital Replacement (Inc          40,000          40,000
                                                        3).
Defense-Wide                   St Louis                Next NGA West (N2W)               119,000          60,000
                                                        Complex Phase 2 (Inc).
                             New Mexico
Defense-Wide                   Kirtland Air Force      Administrative Building..          46,600          46,600
                                Base
                             North Carolina
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOTF Chilled Water                      0           6,100
                                                        Upgrade.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOF Military Working Dog           17,700          17,700
                                                        Facility.
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOF Group Headquarters...          53,100          53,100
Defense-Wide                   Fort Bragg              SOF Operations Facility..          43,000          43,000
                             Ohio
Defense-Wide                   Wright-Patterson Air    Intelligence Facility                   0          35,000
                                Force Base              Central Utility Plant.
Defense-Wide                   Wright-Patterson Air    Hydrant Fuel System......          23,500          23,500
                                Force Base
                             Tennessee
Defense-Wide                   Memphis International   PV Arrays and Battery                   0           4,780
                                Airport                 Storage.
                             Texas
Defense-Wide                   Fort Hood               Fuel Facilities..........          32,700          32,700
                             Virginia
Defense-Wide                   Joint Expeditionary     SOF DCS Operations Fac.            54,500          54,500
                                Base Little Creek--     and Command Center.
                                Story
Defense-Wide                   Joint Expeditionary     SOF NSWG-2 NSWTG CSS               58,000          58,000
                                Base Little Creek--     Facilities.
                                Story
                             Washington
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Lewis-       Fuel Facilities (Lewis             10,900          10,900
                                McChord                 North).
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Lewis-       Fuel Facilities (Lewis             10,900          10,900
                                McChord                 Main).
Defense-Wide                   Manchester              Bulk Fuel Storage Tanks            82,000          82,000
                                                        Phase 1.
                             Washington DC
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Anacostia-   DIA HQ Cooling Towers and               0           1,963
                                Bolling                 Cond Pumps.
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Anacostia-   Industrial Controls                     0           8,749
                                Bolling                 System Modernization.
Defense-Wide                   Joint Base Anacostia-   PV Carports..............               0          25,221
                                Bolling
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   8,000           8,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          27,746          27,746
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   4,922           4,922
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  17,698          17,698
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  20,000          20,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Resilience and             142,500         142,500
                                Locations               Conserv. Invest. Prog..
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000           3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          10,647          10,647
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   ERCIP Design.............          14,250          14,250
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          10,303          10,303
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor              5,840           5,840
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          32,624          32,624
                                Locations
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                   9,726           9,726
                                Locations               Construction.
Defense-Wide                   Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......          64,406          64,406
                                Locations
                             Worlwide Unspecified
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design--                     0          50,000
                                Locations               Military Installation
                                                        Resiliency.
Defense-Wide                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design--                     0          15,000
                                Locations               Pacific Deterrence
                                                        Initiative.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL DEFENSE-WIDE                                                            2,027,520       1,828,933
                               ......................
ARMY NATIONAL GUARD
                             Arizona
Army National Guard            Tucson                  National Guard Readiness           18,100          18,100
                                                        Center.
                             Arkansas
Army National Guard            Fort Chaffee            National Guard Readiness                0          15,000
                                                        Center.
                             California
Army National Guard            Bakersfield             National Guard Vehicle                  0           9,300
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Colorado
Army National Guard            Peterson Air Force      National Guard Readiness           15,000          15,000
                                Base                    Center.
                             Indiana
Army National Guard            Shelbyville             National Guard/Reserve             12,000          12,000
                                                        Center Building Add/Al.
                             Kentucky
Army National Guard            Frankfort               National Guard/Reserve             15,000          15,000
                                                        Center Building.
                             Mississippi
Army National Guard            Brandon                 National Guard Vehicle             10,400          10,400
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Nebraska
Army National Guard            North Platte            National Guard Vehicle              9,300           9,300
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             New Jersey
Army National Guard            Joint Base McGuire-Dix- National Guard Readiness           15,000          15,000
                                Lakehurst               Center.
                             Ohio
Army National Guard            Columbus                National Guard Readiness           15,000          15,000
                                                        Center.
                             Oklahoma
Army National Guard            Ardmore                 National Guard Vehicle                  0           9,800
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Oregon
Army National Guard            Hermiston               Enlisted Barracks,                      0          15,735
                                                        Transient Training.
Army National Guard            Hermiston               Enlisted Barracks,                  9,300           9,300
                                                        Transient Training.
                             Puerto Rico
Army National Guard            Fort Allen              National Guard Readiness           37,000          37,000
                                                        Center.
                             South Carolina
Army National Guard            Joint Base Charleston   National Guard Readiness           15,000          15,000
                                                        Center.
                             Tennessee
Army National Guard            Mcminnville             National Guard Readiness           11,200          11,200
                                                        Center.
                             Texas
Army National Guard            Fort Worth              National Guard Vehicle              7,800           7,800
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
Army National Guard            Fort Worth              Aircraft Maintenance                6,000           6,000
                                                        Hangar Addition/Alt.
                             Utah
Army National Guard            Nephi                   National Guard Readiness           12,000          12,000
                                                        Center.
                             Virgin Islands
Army National Guard            St. Croix               Army Aviation Support              28,000          28,000
                                                        Facility (AASF).
Army National Guard            St. Croix               CST Ready Building.......          11,400          11,400
                             Wisconsin
Army National Guard            Appleton                National Guard Readiness           11,600          11,600
                                                        Center Add/Alt.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army National Guard            Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  32,744          32,744
                                Locations               Construction.
Army National Guard            Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......          29,593          29,593
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY NATIONAL GUARD                                                       321,437         371,272
                               ......................
AIR NATIONAL GUARD
                             Alabama
Air National Guard             Montgomery Regional     Base Supply Complex......               0          12,000
                                Airport
Air National Guard             Montgomery Regional     F-35 Simulator Facility..          11,600          11,600
                                Airport
                             Guam
Air National Guard             Joint Region Marianas   Space Control Facility #5          20,000          20,000
                             Maryland
Air National Guard             Joint Base Andrews      F-16 Mission Training               9,400           9,400
                                                        Center.
                             North Dakota
Air National Guard             Hector International    Consolidated RPA                        0          17,500
                                Airport                 Operations Facility.
                             Texas
Air National Guard             Joint Base San Antonio  F-16 Mission Training              10,800          10,800
                                                        Center.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air National Guard             Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   9,000           9,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Air National Guard             Various Worldwide       Planning and Design......           3,414           3,414
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR NATIONAL GUARD                                                         64,214          93,714
                               ......................
ARMY RESERVE
                             Florida
Army Reserve                   Gainesville             ECS TEMF/Warehouse.......          36,000          36,000
                             Massachusetts
Army Reserve                   Devens Reserve Forces   Automated Multipurpose              8,700           8,700
                                Training Area           Machine Gun Range.
                             North Carolina
Army Reserve                   Asheville               Army Reserve Center/Land.          24,000          24,000
                             Wisconsin
Army Reserve                   Fort McCoy              Transient Training                      0           2,500
                                                        Barracks.
Army Reserve                   Fort McCoy              Scout Reconnaissance               14,600          14,600
                                                        Range.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,819           3,819
                                Locations               Construction.
Army Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design......           1,218           1,218
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY RESERVE                                                               88,337          90,837
                               ......................
NAVY RESERVE
                             Maryland
Navy Reserve                   Reisterstown            Reserve Training Center,           39,500          39,500
                                                        Camp Fretterd, MD.
                             Minnesota
Navy Reserve                   NOSC Minneapolis        Joint Reserve Intel                     0          12,800
                                                        Center.
                             Utah
Navy Reserve                   Hill Air Force Base     Naval Operational Support          25,010          25,010
                                                        Center.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Planning & Design...           3,485           3,485
                                Locations
Navy Reserve                   Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Minor Construction..           3,000           3,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY RESERVE                                                               70,995          83,795
                               ......................
AIR FORCE RESERVE
                             Texas
Air Force Reserve              Fort Worth              F-35 Squadron Ops /                     0          25,000
                                                        Aircraft Maintenance
                                                        Unit.
Air Force Reserve              Fort Worth              F-35A Simulator Facility.          14,200          14,200
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force Reserve              Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           3,270           3,270
                                Locations
Air Force Reserve              Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   5,647           5,647
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE RESERVE                                                          23,117          48,117
                               ......................
NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO Security Investment       NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          173,030         173,030
 Program                        Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NATO SECURITY INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                          173,030         173,030
                               ......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                      6,161,724       6,111,724
                               ......................
FAMILY HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION, ARMY
                             Italy
Construction, Army             Vicenza                 Family Housing New                 84,100          84,100
                                                        Construction.
                             Kwajalein
Construction, Army             Kwajalein Atoll         Family Housing                     32,000          32,000
                                                        Replacement Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Army             Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing P & D.....           3,300           3,300
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, ARMY                                                        119,400         119,400
                               ......................
O&M, ARMY
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          39,716          39,716
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................           8,135           8,135
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          18,004          18,004
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............             526             526
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............          97,789          70,789
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          41,183          41,183
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................         123,841         123,841
                                Locations
O&M, Army                      Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privitization              37,948          64,948
                                Locations               Support.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, ARMY                                                                 367,142         367,142
                               ......................
CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Navy and         Unspecified Worldwide   USMC DPRI/Guam Planning             2,726           2,726
 Marine Corps                   Locations               and Design.
Construction, Navy and         Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements          37,043          37,043
 Marine Corps                   Locations
Construction, Navy and         Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           3,128           3,128
 Marine Corps                   Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS                                        42,897          42,897
                               ......................
O&M, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          58,429          58,429
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          17,977          17,977
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          51,006          51,006
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............             350             350
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................          16,743          16,743
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          62,658          62,658
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............          85,630          85,630
                                Locations
O&M, Navy and Marine Corps     Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              53,700          78,700
                                Locations               Support.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, NAVY AND MARINE CORPS                                                346,493         371,493
                               ......................
CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Construction, Air Force        Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements          94,245          94,245
                                Locations
Construction, Air Force        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design........           2,969           2,969
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE                                                    97,214          97,214
                               ......................
O&M, AIR FORCE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization....          23,175          48,175
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................          43,173          43,173
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Management...............          64,732          64,732
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Services.................           7,968           7,968
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............          25,805          25,805
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous............           2,184           2,184
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................           9,318           9,318
                                Locations
O&M, Air Force                 Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............         140,666         140,666
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, AIR FORCE                                                            317,021         342,021
                               ......................
O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE
                             Worldwide Unspecified
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................           4,100           4,100
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............              82              82
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities................              13              13
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          12,996          12,996
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance..............              32              32
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings..............             645             645
                                Locations
O&M, Defense-Wide              Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing..................          36,860          36,860
                                Locations
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL O&M, DEFENSE-WIDE                                                          54,728          54,728
                               ......................
IMPROVEMENT FUND
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Improvement Fund               Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--           5,897           5,897
                                Locations               FHIF.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL IMPROVEMENT FUND                                                            5,897           5,897
                               ......................
UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT FUND
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Unaccmp HSG Improvement        Unspecified Worldwide   Administrative Expenses--             600             600
 Fund                           Locations               UHIF.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL UNACCMP HSG IMPROVEMENT FUND                                                  600             600
                               ......................
      TOTAL FAMILY HOUSING                                                             1,351,392       1,401,392
                               ......................
DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE
ARMY BRAC
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army BRAC                      Base Realignment &      Base Realignment and               66,060          66,060
                                Closure, Army           Closure.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY BRAC                                                                  66,060          66,060
                               ......................
NAVY BRAC
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy BRAC                      Unspecified Worldwide   Base Realignment &                125,165         125,165
                                Locations               Closure.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY BRAC                                                                 125,165         125,165
                               ......................
AIR FORCE BRAC
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force BRAC                 Unspecified Worldwide   Dod BRAC Activities--Air          109,222         109,222
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE BRAC                                                            109,222         109,222
                               ......................
      TOTAL DEFENSE BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE                                         300,447         300,447
                               ......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                            7,813,563       7,813,563
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State or Country and                                  FY 2021        Senate
           Account                   Installation               Project Title          Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
ARMY
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Planning and Design..       11,903          11,903
                                 Locations
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Minor Construction...        3,970           3,970
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL ARMY                                                                       15,873          15,873
                                .......................
NAVY
                              Spain
Navy                            Rota                     EDI: Expeditionary               27,470          27,470
                                                          Maintenance Facility.
Navy                            Rota                     EDI: EOD Boat Shop........       31,760          31,760
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                            Unspecified Worldwide    Planning & Design.........       10,790          10,790
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL NAVY                                                                       70,020          70,020
                                .......................
AIR FORCE
                              Germany
Air Force                       Ramstein                 EDI: Rapid Airfield Damage       36,345          36,345
                                                          Repair Storage.
Air Force                       Spangdahlem AB           EDI: Rapid Airfield Damage       25,824          25,824
                                                          Repair Storage.
                              Romania
Air Force                       Campia Turzii            EDI: Dangerous Cargo Pad..       11,000          11,000
Air Force                       Campia Turzii            EDI: POL Increase Capacity       32,000          32,000
Air Force                       Campia Turzii            EDI: ECAOS DABS-FEV              68,000          68,000
                                                          Storage Complex.
Air Force                       Campia Turzii            EDI: Parking Apron........       19,500          19,500
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Air Force                       Unspecified Worldwide    EDI: Unspecified Minor           16,400          16,400
                                 Locations                Military Construction.
Air Force                       Various Worldwide        EDI: Planning & Design....       54,800          54,800
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      SUBTOTAL AIR FORCE                                                                 263,869         263,869
                                .......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION                                                        349,762         349,762
                                .......................
      TOTAL MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, FAMILY HOUSING, AND BRAC                              349,762         349,762
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2021        Senate
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary by Appropriation
  Energy and Water Development and Related
   Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear energy......................       137,800        137,800
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National Nuclear Security
       Administration:
        Federal Salaries and Expenses.....       454,000        454,000
        Weapons activities................    15,602,000     15,602,000
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     2,031,000      2,031,000
        Naval reactors....................     1,684,000      1,684,000
  Total, National Nuclear Security            19,771,000     19,771,000
   Administration.........................
 
 
 
      Defense environmental cleanup.......     4,983,608      5,083,608
 
      Other defense activities............     1,054,727        904,727
 
  Total, Atomic Energy Defense Activities.    25,809,335     25,759,335
 
  Total, Discretionary Funding............    25,947,135     25,897,135
 
 
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       137,800        137,800
  Total, Nuclear Energy...................       137,800        137,800
 
National Nuclear Security Administration
 
Federal Salaries and Expenses
  Program direction.......................       454,000        454,000
 
Weapons Activities
Stockpile management
Stockpile major modernization
      B61 Life extension program..........       815,710        815,710
      W76 Life extension program..........             0              0
      W76-2 Modification program..........             0              0
      W88 Alteration program..............       256,922        256,922
      W80-4 Life extension program........     1,000,314      1,000,314
      W87-1 Modification Program (formerly       541,000        541,000
       IW1)...............................
      W93.................................        53,000         53,000
  Total, Stockpile major modernization....     2,666,946      2,666,946
    Stockpile sustainment.................       998,357        998,357
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition.        50,000         50,000
    Production operations.................       568,941        568,941
  Total, Stockpile management.............     4,284,244      4,284,244
 
Production modernization
Primary capability modernization
Plutonium modernization
Los Alamos plutonium modernization
          Los Alamos Plutonium Operations.       610,599        610,599
          21-D-512, Plutonium Pit                226,000        226,000
           Production Project, LANL.......
  Subtotal, Los Alamos plutonium                 836,599        836,599
   modernization..........................
Savannah River plutonium modernization
          Savannah River plutonium               200,000        200,000
           operations.....................
          21-D-511, Savannah River               241,896        241,896
           Plutonium Processing Facility,
           SRS............................
  Subtotal, Savannah River plutonium             441,896        441,896
   modernization..........................
        Enterprise Plutonium Support......        90,782         90,782
  Total, Plutonium Modernization..........     1,369,277      1,369,277
      High Explosives & Energetics........        67,370         67,370
  Total, Primary capability modernization.     1,436,647      1,436,647
    Secondary Capability Modernization....       457,004        457,004
    Tritium and Domestic Uranium                 457,112        457,112
     Enrichment...........................
    Non-Nuclear Capability Modernization..       107,137        107,137
  Total, Production modernization.........     2,457,900      2,457,900
 
  Stockpile research, technology, and
   engineering
    Assessment science....................       773,111        773,111
    Engineering and integrated assessments       337,404        337,404
    Intertial confinement fusion..........       554,725        554,725
    Advanced simulation and computing.....       732,014        732,014
    Weapon technology and manufacturing          297,965        297,965
     maturation...........................
    Academic programs.....................        86,912         86,912
  Total, Stockpile research, technology,       2,782,131      2,782,131
   and engineering........................
 
  Infrastructure and operations
    Operating
      Operations of facilities............     1,014,000      1,014,000
      Safety and Environmental Operations.       165,354        165,354
      Maintenance and Repair of Facilities       792,000        792,000
Recapitalization
        Infrastructure and Safety.........       670,000        670,000
        Capabilities Based Investments....       149,117        149,117
        Planning for Programmatic                 84,787         84,787
         Construction (Pre-CD-1)..........
  Subtotal, Recapitalization..............       903,904        903,904
  Total, Operating........................     2,875,258      2,875,258
 
I&O: Construction
      Programmatic
        21-D-510, HE Synthesis,                   31,000         31,000
         Formulation, and Production
         Facility, PX.....................
        18-D-690, Lithium Processing             109,405        109,405
         Facility, Y-12...................
        18-D-650, Tritium Finishing               27,000         27,000
         Facility, SRS....................
        18-D-620, Exascale Computing              29,200         29,200
         Facility Modernization Project,
         LLNL.............................
        17-D-640, U1a Complex Enhancements       160,600        160,600
         Project, NNSS....................
        15-D-302, TA-55 Reinvestment              30,000         30,000
         Project--Phase 3, LANL...........
        15-D-301, HE Science & Engineering        43,000         43,000
         Facility, PX.....................
        07-D-220-04, Transuranic Liquid           36,687         36,687
         Waste Facility, LANL.............
        06-D-141, Uranium Processing             750,000        750,000
         Facility, Y-12...................
        04-D-125, Chemistry and Metallurgy       169,427        169,427
         Research Replacement Project,
         LANL.............................
  Total, Programmatic.....................     1,386,319      1,386,319
 
Mission enabling
        19-D-670, 138kV Power Transmission        59,000         59,000
         System Replacement, NNSS.........
        15-D-612, Emergency Operations            27,000         27,000
         Center, LLNL.....................
        15-D-611, Emergency Operations            36,000         36,000
         Center, SNL......................
  Total, Mission enabling.................       122,000        122,000
  Total, I&O construction.................     1,508,319      1,508,319
  Total, Infrastructure and operations....     4,383,577      4,383,577
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       266,390        266,390
    Program direction.....................       123,684        123,684
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       390,074        390,074
 
  Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       815,895        815,895
    Security improvements program.........             0              0
    Construction:
      17-D-710, West end protected area           11,000         11,000
       reduction project, Y-12............
  Subtotal, construction..................        11,000         11,000
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       826,895        826,895
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       375,511        375,511
  Legacy contractor pensions..............       101,668        101,668
  Total, Weapons activities...............    16,056,000     16,056,000
 
  Adjustments
    Use of prior year balances............             0              0
  Total, Adjustments......................             0              0
  Total, Weapons Activities...............    15,602,000     15,602,000
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Material management and minimization
      Conversion (formerly HEU Reactor           170,000        170,000
       Conversion)........................
      Nuclear material removal............        40,000         40,000
      Material disposition................       190,711        190,711
      Laboratory and partnership support..             0              0
  Total, Material management &                   400,711        400,711
   minimization...........................
    Global material security..............                            0
      International nuclear security......        66,391         66,391
      Domestic radiological security......       101,000        101,000
      International radiological security.        73,340         73,340
      Nuclear smuggling detection and            159,749        159,749
       deterrence.........................
  Total, Global material security.........       400,480        400,480
    Nonproliferation and arms control.....       138,708        138,708
    National Technical Nuclear Forensics          40,000         40,000
     R&D..................................
    Defense nuclear nonproliferation R&D
      Proliferation detection.............       235,220        235,220
        Nonproliferation Stewardship              59,900         59,900
         program..........................
      Nuclear detonation detection........       236,531        236,531
      Nonproliferation fuels development..             0              0
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation        531,651        531,651
   R&D....................................
 
    Nonproliferation construction
      U. S. Construction:
        18-D-150 Surplus Plutonium               148,589        148,589
         Disposition Project..............
        99-D-143, Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel               0              0
         Fabrication Facility, SRS........
  Total, U. S. Construction:..............       148,589        148,589
  Total, Nonproliferation construction....       148,589        148,589
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation      1,660,139      1,660,139
   Programs...............................
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        14,348         14,348
 
  Nuclear counterterrorism and incident
   response program
    Emergency Operations..................        36,000         36,000
    Counterterrorism and                         341,513        341,513
     Counterproliferation.................
  Total, Nuclear counterterrorism and            377,513        377,513
   incident response program..............
  Subtotal, Defense Nuclear                    2,052,000      2,052,000
   Nonproliferation.......................
  Adjustments
    Use of prior year balances............       -21,000        -21,000
  Total, Adjustments......................       -21,000        -21,000
 
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation.     2,031,000      2,031,000
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors development..............       590,306        590,306
  Columbia-Class reactor systems                  64,700         64,700
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       135,000        135,000
  Naval reactors operations and                  506,294        506,294
   infrastructure.........................
  Program direction.......................        53,700         53,700
  Construction:
    21-D-530 KL Steam and Condensate               4,000          4,000
     Upgrades.............................
    14-D-901, Spent fuel handling                330,000        330,000
     recapitalization project, NRF........
  Total, Construction.....................       334,000        334,000
  Transfer to NE--Advanced Test Reactor                0              0
   (non-add)..............................
  Total, Naval Reactors...................     1,684,000      1,684,000
 
  TOTAL, National Nuclear Security            19,771,000     19,771,000
   Administration.........................
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
    Closure sites administration..........         4,987          4,987
  Richland:
    River corridor and other cleanup              54,949         54,949
     operations...........................
    Central plateau remediation...........       498,335        498,335
    Richland community and regulatory              2,500          2,500
     support..............................
    18-D-404 Modification of Waste                     0              0
     Encapsulation and Storage Facility...
  Total, Richland.........................       555,784        555,784
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste Treatment Immobilization Plant          50,000         50,000
     Commissioning........................
    Rad liquid tank waste stabilization          597,757        597,757
     and disposition......................
    Construction:
        18-D-16 Waste treatment and              609,924        609,924
         immobilization plant--LBL/Direct
         feed LAW.........................
        15-D-409 Low activity waste                    0              0
         pretreatment system, ORP.........
        01-D-16 D, High-level waste                    0              0
         facility.........................
        01-D-16 E, Pretreatment Facility..             0              0
  Total, Construction.....................       609,924        609,924
    ORP Low-level waste offsite disposal..             0              0
  Total, Office of River Protection.......     1,257,681      1,257,681
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       257,554        257,554
    ID Excess facilities R&D..............             0              0
    Idaho community and regulatory support         2,400          2,400
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       259,954        259,954
 
  NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,764          1,764
    LLNL Excess facilities R&D............             0              0
    Separations Process Research Unit.....        15,000         15,000
    Nevada Test Site......................        60,737         60,737
    Sandia National Laboratories..........         4,860          4,860
    Los Alamos National Laboratory........       120,000        220,000
      Execute achievable scope of work....                    (100,000)
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       202,361        302,361
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D.............       109,077        109,077
    U233 Disposition Program..............        45,000         45,000
    OR cleanup and waste disposition......        58,000         58,000
Construction:
      17-D-401 On-site waste disposal             22,380         22,380
       facility...........................
      14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury                20,500         20,500
       Treatment Facility.................
  Subtotal, Construction:.................        42,880         42,880
    OR community & regulatory support.....         4,930          4,930
    OR technology development and                  3,000          3,000
     deployment...........................
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       262,887        262,887
 
  Savannah River Site:
    Savannah River risk management               455,122        455,122
     operations...........................
    SR community and regulatory support...         4,989          4,989
    Radioactive liquid tank waste:
    Construction:
      20-D-402 Advanced Manufacturing             25,000         25,000
       Collaborative Facility (AMC).......
      20-D-401 Saltstone Disposal Unit                 0              0
       #10, 11, 12........................
      19-D-701 SR Security system                      0              0
       replacement........................
      18-D-402,Saltstone disposal unit #8/        65,500         65,500
       9..................................
      17-D-402--Saltstone Disposal Unit #7        10,716         10,716
      05-D-405 Salt waste processing                   0              0
       facility, SRS......................
  Total, Construction, Radioactive liquid        101,216        101,216
   tank waste.............................
    Radioactive liquid tank waste                970,332        970,332
     stabilization........................
  Total, Savannah River Site..............     1,531,659      1,531,659
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Waste Isolation Pilot Plant...........       323,260        323,260
    Construction:
      15-D-411 Safety significant                      0              0
       confinement ventilation system,
       WIPP...............................
      15-D-412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP........        50,000         50,000
      21-D-401 Hoisting Capability Project        10,000         10,000
  Total, Construction.....................        60,000         60,000
  Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant......       383,260        383,260
 
  Program direction--Defense Environment         275,285        275,285
   Cleanup................................
  Program support--Defense Environment            12,979         12,979
   Cleanup................................
  Safeguards and Security--Defense               320,771        320,771
   Environment Cleanup....................
  Technology development and deployment...        25,000         25,000
  Use of prior year balances..............             0              0
  Subtotal, Defense environmental cleanup.     5,092,608      5,192,608
 
  Rescission:
    Rescission of prior year balances.....      -109,000       -109,000
  TOTAL, Defense Environmental Cleanup....     4,983,608      5,083,608
 
 
Other Defense Activities
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              134,320        134,320
     security mission support.............
    Program direction.....................        75,368         75,368
  Total, Environment, health, safety and         209,688        209,688
   security...............................
 
  Independent enterprise assessments
    Enterprise assessments................        26,949         26,949
    Program direction--Office of                  54,635         54,635
     Enterprise Assessments...............
  Total, Office of Enterprise Assessments.        81,584         81,584
 
  Specialized security activities.........       258,411        258,411
 
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management activities--defense.       293,873        143,873
      Maintain current program                               (-150,000)
       administration.....................
    Program direction.....................        23,120         23,120
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       316,993        166,993
 
  Defense related administrative support..       183,789        183,789
 
  Office of hearings and appeals..........         4,262          4,262
  Subtotal, Other defense activities......     1,054,727        904,727
  Use of prior year balances..............             0              0
  Total, Other Defense Activities.........     1,054,727        904,727
------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   DIVISION E--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

                         TITLE LI--PROCUREMENT

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

SEC. 5111. REPORT ON CH-47F CHINOOK BLOCK-II UPGRADE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Secretary of the Army, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that includes the following elements:
            (1) An analysis of the warfighting capability currently 
        delivered by the Block I and Block II configurations of H-47 
        Chinook helicopters.
            (2) An analysis of the feasibility and advisability of 
        delaying or terminating the CH-47F Chinook Block-II upgrade.
            (3) A plan to ensure that warfighter capability is not 
        negatively affected by the delay or termination of the CH-47F 
        Chinook Block-II upgrade.
    (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

SEC. 5121. LIMITATION ON ALTERATION OF NAVY FLEET MIX.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States shipbuilding and supporting vendor 
        base constitute a national security imperative that is unique 
        and must be protected;
            (2) a healthy and efficient industrial base continues to be 
        a fundamental driver for achieving and sustaining a successful 
        shipbuilding procurement strategy;
            (3) without consistent and continuous commitment to steady 
        and predictable acquisition profiles, the industrial base will 
        struggle and some elements may not survive; and
            (4) proposed reductions in the future-years defense program 
        to the DDG-51 Destroyer procurement profile without a clear 
        transition to procurement of the next Large Surface Combatant 
        would adversely affect the shipbuilding industrial base and 
        long-term strategic objectives of the Navy.
    (b) Limitation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy may not deviate 
        from the 2016 Navy Force Structure Assessment to implement the 
        results of a new force structure assessment or new annual long-
        range plan for construction of naval vessels that would reduce 
        the requirement for Large Surface Combatants to fewer than 104 
        such vessels until the date on which the Secretary of the Navy 
        submits to the congressional defense committees the 
        certification under paragraph (2) and the report under 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Certification.--The certification referred to in 
        paragraph (1) is a certification, in writing, that each of the 
        following conditions have been satisfied:
                    (A) The large surface combatant shipbuilding 
                industrial base and supporting vendor base would not 
                significantly deteriorate due to a reduced procurement 
                profile.
                    (B) The Navy can mitigate the reduction in anti-air 
                and ballistic missile defense capabilities due to 
                having a reduced number of DDG-51 Destroyers with the 
                advanced AN/SPY-6 radar in the next three decades.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that includes--
            (1) a description of likely detrimental impacts to the 
        large surface combatant industrial base and the Navy's plan to 
        mitigate any such impacts if the fiscal year 2021 future-years 
        defense program were implemented as proposed;
            (2) a review of the benefits to the Navy fleet of the new 
        AN/SPY-6 radar to be deployed aboard Flight III variant DDG-51 
        Destroyers, which are currently under construction, as well as 
        an analysis of impacts to the fleet's warfighting capabilities, 
        should the number of such destroyers be reduced; and
            (3) a plan to fully implement section 131 of the National 
        Defense Authorization for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), 
        including subsystem prototyping efforts and funding by fiscal 
        year.

         TITLE LII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 5211. IMPORTANCE OF HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 
              AND MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Increase.--Funds authorized to be appropriated in Research, 
Development, Test, and Evaluation, Defense-wide, PE 0601228D8Z, section 
4201, for Basic Research, Historically Black Colleges and Universities/
Minority Institutions, Line 006, are hereby increased by $14,025,000.
    (b) Offset.--Funding in section 4101 for Other Procurement, Army, 
for Automated Data Processing Equipment, Line 112, is hereby reduced by 
$14,025,000.

                   Subtitle C--Sustainable Chemistry

SEC. 5221. NATIONAL COORDINATING ENTITY FOR SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall convene an interagency entity (referred to in 
this title as the ``Entity'') under the National Science and Technology 
Council with the responsibility to coordinate Federal programs and 
activities in support of sustainable chemistry, including those 
described in sections __3 and __4.
    (b) Coordination With Existing Groups.--In convening the Entity, 
the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall 
consider overlap and possible coordination with existing committees, 
subcommittees, or other groups of the National Science and Technology 
Council, such as--
            (1) the Committee on Environment;
            (2) the Committee on Technology;
            (3) the Committee on Science; or
            (4) related groups or subcommittees.
    (c) Co-chairs.--The Entity shall be co-chaired by the Director of 
the Office of Science and Technology Policy and a representative from 
the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology, the National Science Foundation, or the 
Department of Energy, as selected by the Director of the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy.
    (d) Agency Participation.--The Entity shall include 
representatives, including subject matter experts, from the 
Environmental Protection Agency, the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology, the National Science Foundation, the Department of 
Energy, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the 
National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, and other related Federal 
agencies, as appropriate.
    (e) Termination.--The Entity shall terminate on the date that is 10 
years after the date of enactment of this title.

SEC. 5222. STRATEGIC PLAN FOR SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.

    (a) Strategic Plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Entity shall--
            (1) consult with relevant stakeholders, including 
        representatives from industry, academia, national labs, the 
        Federal Government, and international entities, to develop and 
        update, as needed, a consensus definition of ``sustainable 
        chemistry'' to guide the activities under this title;
            (2) develop a working framework of attributes 
        characterizing and metrics for assessing sustainable chemistry, 
        as described in subsection (b);
            (3) assess the state of sustainable chemistry in the United 
        States as a key benchmark from which progress under the 
        activities described in this title can be measured, including 
        assessing key sectors of the United States economy, key 
        technology platforms, commercial priorities, and barriers to 
        innovation;
            (4) coordinate and support Federal research, development, 
        demonstration, technology transfer, commercialization, 
        education, and training efforts in sustainable chemistry, 
        including budget coordination and support for public-private 
        partnerships, as appropriate;
            (5) identify any Federal regulatory barriers to, and 
        opportunities for, Federal agencies facilitating the 
        development of incentives for development, consideration and 
        use of sustainable chemistry processes and products;
            (6) identify major scientific challenges, roadblocks, or 
        hurdles to transformational progress in improving the 
        sustainability of the chemical sciences; and
            (7) review, identify, and make effort to eliminate 
        duplicative Federal funding and duplicative Federal research in 
        sustainable chemistry.
    (b) Characterizing and Assessing Sustainable Chemistry.--The Entity 
shall develop a working framework of attributes characterizing and 
metrics for assessing sustainable chemistry for the purposes of 
carrying out the title. In developing this framework, the Entity 
shall--
            (1) seek advice and input from stakeholders as described in 
        subsection (c);
            (2) consider existing definitions of, or frameworks 
        characterizing and metrics for assessing, sustainable chemistry 
        already in use at Federal agencies;
            (3) consider existing definitions of, or frameworks 
        characterizing and metrics for assessing, sustainable chemistry 
        already in use by international organizations of which the 
        United States is a member, such as the Organisation for 
        Economic Co-operation and Development; and
            (4) consider any other appropriate existing definitions of, 
        or frameworks characterizing and metrics for assessing, 
        sustainable chemistry.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out the duties described in 
subsections (a) and (b), the Entity shall consult with stakeholders 
qualified to provide advice and information to guide Federal activities 
related to sustainable chemistry through workshops, requests for 
information, or other mechanisms as necessary. The stakeholders shall 
include representatives from--
            (1) business and industry (including trade associations and 
        small- and medium-sized enterprises from across the value 
        chain);
            (2) the scientific community (including the National 
        Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, scientific 
        professional societies, national labs, and academia);
            (3) the defense community;
            (4) State, tribal, and local governments, including 
        nonregulatory State or regional sustainable chemistry programs, 
        as appropriate;
            (5) nongovernmental organizations; and
            (6) other appropriate organizations.
    (d) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Entity shall submit a report to the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works, the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on Science, 
        Space, and Technology, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives. In addition to the elements described in 
        subsections (a) and (b), the report shall include--
                    (A) a summary of federally funded, sustainable 
                chemistry research, development, demonstration, 
                technology transfer, commercialization, education, and 
                training activities;
                    (B) a summary of the financial resources allocated 
                to sustainable chemistry initiatives by each 
                participating agency;
                    (C) an assessment of the current state of 
                sustainable chemistry in the United States, including 
                the role that Federal agencies are playing in 
                supporting it;
                    (D) an analysis of the progress made toward 
                achieving the goals and priorities of this Act, and 
                recommendations for future program activities;
                    (E) an evaluation of steps taken and future 
                strategies to avoid duplication of efforts, streamline 
                interagency coordination, facilitate information 
                sharing, and spread best practices among participating 
                agencies; and
                    (F) an evaluation of duplicative Federal funding 
                and duplicative Federal research in sustainable 
                chemistry, efforts undertaken by the Entity to 
                eliminate duplicative funding and research, and 
                recommendations on how to achieve these goals.
            (2) Submission to gao.--The Entity shall also submit the 
        report described in paragraph (1) to the Comptroller General of 
        the United States for consideration in future Congressional 
        inquiries.
            (3) Additional reports.--The Entity shall submit a report 
        to Congress and the Comptroller General of the United States 
        that incorporates the information described in subparagraphs 
        (A), (B), (D), (E), and (F) of paragraph (1) every 3 years, 
        commencing after the initial report is submitted until the 
        Entity terminates.

SEC. 5223. AGENCY ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.

    (a) In General.--The agencies participating in the Entity shall 
carry out activities in support of sustainable chemistry, as 
appropriate to the specific mission and programs of each agency.
    (b) Activities.--The activities described in subsection (a) shall--
            (1) incorporate sustainable chemistry into existing 
        research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, 
        commercialization, education, and training programs, that the 
        agency determines to be relevant, including consideration of--
                    (A) merit-based competitive grants to individual 
                investigators and teams of investigators, including, to 
                the extent practicable, early career investigators for 
                research and development;
                    (B) grants to fund collaborative research and 
                development partnerships among universities, industry, 
                and nonprofit organizations;
                    (C) coordination of sustainable chemistry research, 
                development, demonstration, and technology transfer 
                conducted at Federal laboratories and agencies;
                    (D) incentive prize competitions and challenges in 
                coordination with such existing Federal agency 
                programs; and
                    (E) grants, loans, and loan guarantees to aid in 
                the technology transfer and commercialization of 
                sustainable chemicals, materials, processes, and 
                products;
            (2) collect and disseminate information on sustainable 
        chemistry research, development, technology transfer, and 
        commercialization, including information on accomplishments and 
        best practices;
            (3) expand the education and training of students at 
        appropriate levels of education, professional scientists and 
        engineers, and other professionals involved in all aspects of 
        sustainable chemistry and engineering appropriate to that level 
        of education and training, including through--
                    (A) partnerships with industry as described in 
                section __4;
                    (B) support for the integration of sustainable 
                chemistry principles into chemistry and chemical 
                engineering curriculum and research training, as 
                appropriate to that level of education and training; 
                and
                    (C) support for integration of sustainable 
                chemistry principles into existing or new professional 
                development opportunities for professionals including 
                teachers, faculty, and individuals involved in 
                laboratory research (product development, materials 
                specification and testing, life cycle analysis, and 
                management);
            (4) as relevant to an agency's programs, examine methods by 
        which the Federal agencies, in collaboration and consultation 
        with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, may 
        facilitate the development or recognition of validated, 
        standardized tools for performing sustainability assessments of 
        chemistry processes or products;
            (5) through programs identified by an agency, support 
        (including through technical assistance, participation, 
        financial support, communications tools, awards, or other forms 
        of support) outreach and dissemination of sustainable chemistry 
        advances such as non-Federal symposia, forums, conferences, and 
        publications in collaboration with, as appropriate, industry, 
        academia, scientific and professional societies, and other 
        relevant groups;
            (6) provide for public input and outreach to be integrated 
        into the activities described in this section by the convening 
        of public discussions, through mechanisms such as public 
        meetings, consensus conferences, and educational events, as 
        appropriate;
            (7) within each agency, develop or adapt metrics to track 
        the outputs and outcomes of the programs supported by that 
        agency; and
            (8) incentivize or recognize actions that advance 
        sustainable chemistry products, processes, or initiatives, 
        including through the establishment of a nationally recognized 
        awards program through the Environmental Protection Agency to 
        identify, publicize, and celebrate innovations in sustainable 
        chemistry and chemical technologies.
    (c) Limitations .--Financial support provided under this section 
shall--
            (1) be available only for pre-competitive activities; and
            (2) not be used to promote the sale of a specific product, 
        process, or technology, or to disparage a specific product, 
        process, or technology.

SEC. 5224. PARTNERSHIPS IN SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.

    (a) In General.--The agencies participating in the Entity may 
facilitate and support, through financial, technical, or other 
assistance, the creation of partnerships between institutions of higher 
education, nongovernmental organizations, consortia, or companies 
across the value chain in the chemical industry, including small- and 
medium-sized enterprises, to--
            (1) create collaborative sustainable chemistry research, 
        development, demonstration, technology transfer, and 
        commercialization programs; and
            (2) train students and retrain professional scientists, 
        engineers, and others involved in materials specification on 
        the use of sustainable chemistry concepts and strategies by 
        methods, including--
                    (A) developing or recognizing curricular materials 
                and courses for undergraduate and graduate levels and 
                for the professional development of scientists, 
                engineers, and others involved in materials 
                specification; and
                    (B) publicizing the availability of professional 
                development courses in sustainable chemistry and 
                recruiting professionals to pursue such courses.
    (b) Private Sector Participation.--To be eligible for support under 
this section, a partnership in sustainable chemistry shall include at 
least one private sector organization.
    (c) Selection of Partnerships.--In selecting partnerships for 
support under this section, the agencies participating in the Entity 
shall also consider the extent to which the applicants are willing and 
able to demonstrate evidence of support for, and commitment to, the 
goals outlined in the strategic plan and report described in section 
__2.
    (d) Prohibited Use of Funds.--Financial support provided under this 
section may not be used--
            (1) to support or expand a regulatory chemical management 
        program at an implementing agency under a State law;
            (2) to construct or renovate a building or structure; or
            (3) to promote the sale of a specific product, process, or 
        technology, or to disparage a specific product, process, or 
        technology.

SEC. 5225. PRIORITIZATION.

    In carrying out this Act, the Entity shall focus its support for 
sustainable chemistry activities on those that achieve, to the highest 
extent practicable, the goals outlined in the title.

SEC. 5226. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to alter or amend any 
State law or action with regard to sustainable chemistry, as defined by 
the State.

SEC. 5227. MAJOR MULTI-USER RESEARCH FACILITY PROJECT.

    Section 110 of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (42 
U.S.C. 1862s-2) is amended by striking (g)(2) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(2) Major multi-user research facility project.--The term 
        `major multi-user research facility project' means a science 
        and engineering facility project that exceeds $100,000,000 in 
        total construction, acquisition, or upgrade costs to the 
        Foundation.''.

                  Subtitle D--Cyber Workforce Matters

SEC. 5231. IMPROVING NATIONAL INITIATIVE FOR CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION.

    (a) Program Improvements Generally.--Subsection (a) of section 401 
of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7451) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (10); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) supporting efforts to identify cybersecurity 
        workforce skill gaps in public and private sectors;
            ``(7) facilitating Federal programs to advance 
        cybersecurity education, training, and workforce;
            ``(8) in coordination with the Department of Defense and 
        the Department of Homeland Security, considering any specific 
        needs of the cybersecurity workforce of critical 
        infrastructure, to include cyber physical systems and control 
        systems;
            ``(9) advising the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget, as needed in, developing metrics to measure the 
        effectiveness and effect of programs and initiatives to advance 
        the cybersecurity workforce; and''.
    (b) Strategic Plan.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Director'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Director''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Requirement.--The strategic plan developed and 
        implemented under paragraph (1) shall include an indication of 
        how the Director will carry out this section.''.
    (c) Cybersecurity Career Pathways.--
            (1) Identification of multiple cybersecurity career 
        pathways.--In carrying out subsection (a) of such section and 
        not later than 540 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, the Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology shall, in coordination with the Secretary of 
        Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director 
        of the Office of Personnel Management, use a consultative 
        process with other Federal agencies, academia, and industry to 
        identify multiple career pathways for cybersecurity work roles 
        that can be used in the private and public sectors.
            (2) Requirements.--The Director shall ensure that the 
        multiple cybersecurity career pathways identified under 
        paragraph (1) indicate the knowledge, skills, and abilities, 
        including relevant education, training, apprenticeships, 
        certifications, and other experiences, that--
                    (A) align with employers' cybersecurity skill 
                needs, including proficiency level requirements, for 
                its workforce; and
                    (B) prepare an individual to be successful in 
                entering or advancing in a cybersecurity career.
            (3) Exchange program.--Consistent with requirements under 
        chapter 37 of title 5, United States Code, the Director of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology, in coordination 
        with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, may 
        establish a voluntary program for the exchange of employees 
        engaged in one of the cybersecurity work roles identified in 
        the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) 
        Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 
        800-181), or successor framework, between the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology and private sector 
        institutions, including a nonpublic or commercial business, a 
        research institution, or an institution of higher education, as 
        the Director of the National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology considers feasible.
    (d) Proficiency To Perform Cybersecurity Tasks.--Not later than 540 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology shall, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security--
            (1) in carrying out subsection (a) of such section, assess 
        the scope and sufficiency of efforts to measure a learner's 
        capability to perform specific tasks found in the National 
        Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) Cybersecurity 
        Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 800-181) at all 
        proficiency levels; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report--
                    (A) on the findings of the Director with respect to 
                the assessment carried out under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) with recommendations for effective methods for 
                measuring the cybersecurity proficiency of learners.
    (e) Cybersecurity Metrics.--Such section is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Cybersecurity Metrics.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget may seek input from the 
Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in 
coordination with the Department of Homeland Security, the Office of 
Personnel Management, and such agencies as the Director of the National 
Institute of Standards and Technology considers relevant, shall develop 
repeatable measures and reliable metrics for measuring and evaluating 
Federally funded cybersecurity workforce programs and initiatives based 
on the outcomes of such programs and initiatives.''.
    (f) Regional Alliances and Multistakeholder Partnerships.--Such 
section is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Regional Alliances and Multistakeholder Partnerships.--
            ``(1) In general.--Pursuant to section 2(b)(4) of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 
        272(b)(4)), the Director shall establish cooperative agreements 
        between the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education 
        (NICE) of the Institute and regional alliances or partnerships 
        for cybersecurity education and workforce.
            ``(2) Agreements.--The cooperative agreements established 
        under paragraph (1) shall advance the goals of the National 
        Initiative for Cybersecurity Education Cybersecurity Workforce 
        Framework (NIST Special Publication 800-181), or successor 
        framework, by facilitating local and regional partnerships--
                    ``(A) to identify the workforce needs of the local 
                economy and classify such workforce in accordance with 
                such framework;
                    ``(B) to identify the education, training, 
                apprenticeship, and other opportunities available in 
                the local economy; and
                    ``(C) to support opportunities to meet the needs of 
                the local economy.
            ``(3) Financial assistance.--
                    ``(A) Financial assistance authorized.--The 
                Director may award financial assistance to a regional 
                alliance or partnership with whom the Director enters 
                into a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) in 
                order to assist the regional alliance or partnership in 
                carrying out the term of the cooperative agreement.
                    ``(B) Amount of assistance.--The aggregate amount 
                of financial assistance awarded under subparagraph (A) 
                per cooperative agreement shall not exceed $200,000.
                    ``(C) Matching requirement.--The Director may not 
                award financial assistance to a regional alliance or 
                partnership under subparagraph (A) unless the regional 
                alliance or partnership agrees that, with respect to 
                the costs to be incurred by the regional alliance or 
                partnership in carrying out the cooperative agreement 
                for which the assistance was awarded, the regional 
                alliance or partnership will make available (directly 
                or through donations from public or private entities) 
                non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 50 
                percent of Federal funds provided under the award.
            ``(4) Application.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A regional alliance or 
                partnership seeking to enter into a cooperative 
                agreement under paragraph (1) and receive financial 
                assistance under paragraph (3) shall submit to the 
                Director an application therefore at such time, in such 
                manner, and containing such information as the Director 
                may require.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--Each application submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i)(I) A plan to establish (or 
                        identification of, if it already exists) a 
                        multistakeholder workforce partnership that 
                        includes--
                                    ``(aa) at least one institution of 
                                higher education or nonprofit training 
                                organization; and
                                    ``(bb) at least one local employer 
                                or owner or operator of critical 
                                infrastructure.
                            ``(II) Participation from Federal Cyber 
                        Scholarships for Service organizations, 
                        advanced technological education programs, 
                        elementary and secondary schools, training and 
                        certification providers, State and local 
                        governments, economic development 
                        organizations, or other community organizations 
                        is encouraged.
                            ``(ii) A description of how the workforce 
                        partnership would identify the workforce needs 
                        of the local economy.
                            ``(iii) A description of how the 
                        multistakeholder workforce partnership would 
                        leverage the programs and objectives of the 
                        National Initiative for Cybersecurity 
                        Education, such as the Cybersecurity Workforce 
                        Framework and the strategic plan of such 
                        initiative.
                            ``(iv) A description of how employers in 
                        the community will be recruited to support 
                        internships, externships, apprenticeships, or 
                        cooperative education programs in conjunction 
                        with providers of education and training. 
                        Inclusion of programs that seek to include 
                        women, minorities, or veterans is encouraged.
                            ``(v) A definition of the metrics that will 
                        be used to measure the success of the efforts 
                        of the regional alliance or partnership under 
                        the agreement.
                    ``(C) Priority consideration.--In awarding 
                financial assistance under paragraph (3)(A), the 
                Director shall give priority consideration to a 
                regional alliance or partnership that includes an 
                institution of higher education which receives an award 
                under the Federal Cyber Scholarship for Service program 
                located in the State or region of the regional alliance 
                or partnership.
            ``(5) Audits.--Each cooperative agreement for which 
        financial assistance is awarded under paragraph (3) shall be 
        subject to audit requirements under part 200 of title 2, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (relating to uniform administrative 
        requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for 
        Federal awards), or successor regulation.
            ``(6) Reports.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Upon completion of a cooperative 
                agreement under paragraph (1), the regional alliance or 
                partnership that participated in the agreement shall 
                submit to the Director a report on the activities of 
                the regional alliance or partnership under the 
                agreement, which may include training and education 
                outcomes.
                    ``(B) Contents.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) by a regional alliance or partnership 
                shall include the following:
                            ``(i) An assessment of efforts made by the 
                        regional alliance or partnership to carry out 
                        paragraph (2).
                            ``(ii) The metrics used by the regional 
                        alliance or partnership to measure the success 
                        of the efforts of the regional alliance or 
                        partnership under the cooperative agreement.''.
    (g) Transfer of Section.--
            (1) Transfer.--Such section is transferred to the end of 
        title III of such Act and redesignated as section 303.
            (2) Repeal.--Title IV of such Act is repealed.
            (3) Clerical.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
        such Act is amended--
                    (A) by striking the items relating to title IV and 
                section 401; and
                    (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 
                302 the following:

``Sec. 303. National cybersecurity awareness and education program.''.
            (4) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 302(3) of the Federal Cybersecurity 
                Workforce Assessment Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-113) 
                is amended by striking ``under section 401 of the 
                Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
                7451)'' and inserting ``under section 303 of the 
                Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-
                274)''.
                    (B) Section 2(c)(3) of the NIST Small Business 
                Cybersecurity Act (Public Law 115-236) is amended by 
                striking ``under section 401 of the Cybersecurity 
                Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7451)'' and 
                inserting ``under section 303 of the Cybersecurity 
                Enhancement Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-274)''.
                    (C) Section 302(f) of the Cybersecurity Enhancement 
                Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7442(f)) is amended by striking 
                ``under section 401'' and inserting ``under section 
                303''.

SEC. 5232. DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR IMPROVING 
              CYBERSECURITY WORKFORCE OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 20(a) of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) identify and develop standards and guidelines for 
        improving the cybersecurity workforce for an agency as part of 
        the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) 
        Cybersecurity Workforce Framework (NIST Special Publication 
        800-181), or successor framework.''.
    (b) Publication of Standards and Guidelines on Cybersecurity 
Awareness.--Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act and pursuant to section 20 of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-3), the Director of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology shall publish standards 
and guidelines for improving cybersecurity awareness of employees and 
contractors of Federal agencies.

SEC. 5233. MODIFICATIONS TO FEDERAL CYBER SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 302 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
7442) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``information 
                technology'' and inserting ``information technology and 
                cybersecurity'';
                    (B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) prioritize the placement of scholarship recipients 
        fulfilling the post-award employment obligation under this 
        section to ensure that--
                    ``(A) not less than 70 percent of such recipients 
                are placed in an executive agency (as defined in 
                section 105 of title 5, United States Code);
                    ``(B) not more than 10 percent of such recipients 
                are placed as educators in the field of cybersecurity 
                at qualified institutions of higher education that 
                provide scholarships under this section; and
                    ``(C) not more than 20 percent of such recipients 
                are placed in positions described in paragraphs (2) 
                through (5) of subsection (d); and''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (4), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, including by seeking 
                to provide awards in coordination with other relevant 
                agencies for summer cybersecurity camp or other 
                experiences, including teacher training, in each of the 
                50 States,'' after ``cybersecurity education'';
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) as provided by subsection (b)(3)(B), a qualified 
        institution of higher education.''; and
            (3) in subsection (m)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``cyber'' and inserting 
                ``cybersecurity''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``cyber'' and 
                inserting ``cybersecurity''.

SEC. 5234. MODIFICATIONS TO FEDERAL CYBER SCHOLARSHIP-FOR-SERVICE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 302 of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 
7442) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(5) enter into an agreement accepting and acknowledging 
        the post award employment obligations, pursuant to section (d);
            ``(6) accept and acknowledge the conditions of support 
        under section (g); and
            ``(7) accept all terms and conditions of a scholarship 
        under this section.'';
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``the Office of 
                Personnel Management, in coordination with the National 
                Science Foundation, and'' before ``the qualified 
                institution'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; 
                        or'' and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (E) and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(E) fails to maintain or fulfill any of the post-
                graduation or post-award obligations or requirements of 
                the individual; or
                    ``(F) fails to fulfill the requirements of 
                paragraph (1).'';
            (3) in subsection (h)(2), by inserting ``and the Director 
        of the Office of Personnel Management'' after ``Foundation'';
            (4) in subsection (k)(1)(A), by striking ``and the 
        Director'' and all that follows and inserting ``, the Director 
        of the National Science Foundation, and the Director of the 
        Office of Personnel Management of the amounts owed; and''; and
            (5) in subsection (m)(2), by striking ``once every 3 
        years'' and all that follows and inserting ``once every 2 
        years, to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Oversight 
        and Reform of the House of Representatives a report, 
        including--''
                    (A) ``the results of the evaluation under paragraph 
                (1);''
                    (B) ``the disparity in any reporting between 
                scholarship recipients and their respective 
                institutions of higher education; and''
                    (C) ``any recent statistics regarding the size, 
                composition, and educational requirements of the 
                Federal cyber workforce.''

SEC. 5235. CYBERSECURITY IN PROGRAMS OF THE NATIONAL SCIENCE 
              FOUNDATION.

    (a) Computer Science and Cybersecurity Education Research.--Section 
310 of the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 
1862s-7) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and 
                cybersecurity'' after ``computer science''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; 
                        and'' and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) tools and models for the integration of 
                cybersecurity and other interdisciplinary efforts into 
                computer science education and computational thinking 
                at secondary and postsecondary levels of education.''; 
                and
            (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``, cybersecurity,'' 
        after ``computing''.
    (b) Scientific and Technical Education.--Section 3(j)(9) of the 
Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 1862i(j)(9)) 
is amended by inserting ``and cybersecurity'' after ``computer 
science''.
    (c) Low-Income Scholarship Program.--Section 414(d) of the American 
Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 (42 U.S.C. 1869c) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or computer science'' 
        and inserting ``computer science, or cybersecurity''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A)(iii), by inserting 
        ``cybersecurity,'' after ``computer science,''.
    (d) Scholarships and Graduate Fellowships.--The Director of the 
National Science Foundation shall ensure that students pursuing 
master's degrees and doctoral degrees in fields relating to 
cybersecurity are considered as applicants for scholarships and 
graduate fellowships under the Graduate Research Fellowship Program 
under section 10 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 
U.S.C. 1869).
    (e) Presidential Awards for Teaching Excellence.--The Director of 
the National Science Foundation shall ensure that educators and mentors 
in fields relating to cybersecurity can be considered for--
            (1) Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and 
        Science Teaching made under section 117 of the National Science 
        Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1881b); and
            (2) Presidential Awards for Excellence in STEM Mentoring 
        administered under section 307 of the American Innovation and 
        Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s-6).

SEC. 5236. CYBERSECURITY IN STEM PROGRAMS OF THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICS 
              AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION.

    In carrying out any STEM education program of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration (referred to in this section as 
``NASA''), including a program of the Office of STEM Engagement, the 
Administrator of NASA shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
encourage the inclusion of cybersecurity education opportunities in 
such program.

SEC. 5237. CYBERSECURITY IN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) University Transportation Centers Program.--Section 5505 of 
title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)(C), by inserting ``in the matters 
        described in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 
        6503(c)(1)'' after ``transportation leaders''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(3)(E)--
                    (A) by inserting ``, including the cybersecurity 
                implications of technologies relating to connected 
                vehicles, connected infrastructure, and autonomous 
                vehicles'' after ``autonomous vehicles''; and
                    (B) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
                following:
                            ``(i) In general.--A regional university 
                        transportation center receiving a grant under 
                        this paragraph shall carry out research 
                        focusing on 1 or more of the matters described 
                        in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 
                        6503(c)(1).
                            ``(ii) Focused objectives.--The 
                        Secretary''.
    (b) Transportation Research and Development 5-Year Strategic 
Plan.--Section 6503(c)(1) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (F), by inserting ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) reducing transportation cybersecurity 
                risks;''.

SEC. 5238. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY CHALLENGES.

    (a) In General.--Title II of the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 
2014 (15 U.S.C. 7431 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 205. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY CHALLENGES.

    ``(a) Establishment of National Cybersecurity Challenges.--
            ``(1) In general.--To achieve high-priority breakthroughs 
        in cybersecurity by 2028, the Secretary of Commerce shall 
        establish the following national cybersecurity challenges:
                    ``(A) Economics of a cyber attack.--Building more 
                resilient systems that measurably and exponentially 
                raise adversary costs of carrying out common cyber 
                attacks.
                    ``(B) Cyber training.--
                            ``(i) Empowering the people of the United 
                        States with an appropriate and measurably 
                        sufficient level of digital literacy to make 
                        safe and secure decisions online.
                            ``(ii) Developing a cybersecurity workforce 
                        with measurable skills to protect and maintain 
                        information systems.
                    ``(C) Emerging technology.--Advancing cybersecurity 
                efforts in response to emerging technology, such as 
                artificial intelligence, quantum science, and next 
                generation communications technologies.
                    ``(D) Reimagining digital identity.--Maintaining a 
                high sense of usability while improving the security 
                and safety of online activity of individuals in the 
                United States.
                    ``(E) Federal agency resilience.--Reducing 
                cybersecurity risks to Federal networks and systems, 
                and improving the response of Federal agencies to 
                cybersecurity incidents on such networks and systems.
            ``(2) Coordination.--In establishing the challenges under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate with the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security on the challenges under 
        subparagraphs (B) and (E) of such paragraph.
    ``(b) Pursuit of National Cybersecurity Challenges.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, acting through 
        the Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology, 
        shall commence efforts to pursue the national cybersecurity 
        challenges established under subsection (a).
            ``(2) Competitions.--The efforts required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include carrying out programs to award prizes, including 
        cash and noncash prizes, competitively pursuant to the 
        authorities and processes established under section 24 of the 
        Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
        3719) or any other applicable provision of law.
            ``(3) Additional authorities.--In carrying out paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary may enter into and perform such other 
        transactions as the Secretary considers necessary and on such 
        terms as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(4) Coordination.--In pursuing national cybersecurity 
        challenges under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate 
        with the following:
                    ``(A) The Director of the National Science 
                Foundation.
                    ``(B) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
                    ``(C) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research 
                Projects Agency.
                    ``(D) The Director of the Office of Science and 
                Technology Policy.
                    ``(E) The Director of the Office of Management and 
                Budget.
                    ``(F) The Administrator of the General Services 
                Administration.
                    ``(G) The Federal Trade Commission.
                    ``(H) The heads of such other Federal agencies as 
                the Secretary of Commerce considers appropriate for 
                purposes of this section.
            ``(5) Solicitation of acceptance of funds.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Pursuant to section 24 of the 
                Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 
                U.S.C. 3719), the Secretary shall request and accept 
                funds from other Federal agencies, State, United States 
                territory, local, or tribal government agencies, 
                private sector for-profit entities, and nonprofit 
                entities to support efforts to pursue a national 
                cybersecurity challenge under this section.
                    ``(B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be construed to require any 
                person or entity to provide funds or otherwise 
                participate in an effort or competition under this 
                section.
    ``(c) Recommendations.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary of Commerce shall designate an advisory council to 
        seek recommendations.
            ``(2) Elements.--The recommendations required by paragraph 
        (1) shall include the following:
                    ``(A) A scope for efforts carried out under 
                subsection (b).
                    ``(B) Metrics to assess submissions for prizes 
                under competitions carried out under subsection (b) as 
                the submissions pertain to the national cybersecurity 
                challenges established under subsection (a).
            ``(3) No additional compensation.--The Secretary may not 
        provide any additional compensation, except for travel 
        expenses, to a member of the advisory council designated under 
        paragraph (1) for participation in the advisory council.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 201(a)(1) of such Act is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (J), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (K) as subparagraph (L); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
                    ``(K) implementation of section 205 through 
                research and development on the topics identified under 
                subsection (a) of such section; and''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 204 
the following:

``Sec. 205. National Cybersecurity Challenges.''.

SEC. 5239. INTERNET OF THINGS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Communications Commission.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Commerce.
            (3) Steering committee.--The term ``steering committee'' 
        means the steering committee established under subsection 
        (b)(5)(A).
            (4) Working group.--The term ``working group'' means the 
        working group convened under subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Federal Working Group.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall convene a working 
        group of Federal stakeholders for the purpose of providing 
        recommendations and a report to Congress relating to the 
        aspects of the Internet of Things described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Duties.--The working group shall--
                    (A) identify any Federal regulations, statutes, 
                grant practices, budgetary or jurisdictional 
                challenges, and other sector-specific policies that are 
                inhibiting, or could inhibit, the development or 
                deployment of the Internet of Things;
                    (B) consider policies or programs that encourage 
                and improve coordination among Federal agencies that 
                have responsibilities that are relevant to the 
                objectives of this section;
                    (C) consider any findings or recommendations made 
                by the steering committee and, where appropriate, act 
                to implement those recommendations;
                    (D) examine--
                            (i) how Federal agencies can benefit from 
                        utilizing the Internet of Things;
                            (ii) the use of Internet of Things 
                        technology by Federal agencies as of the date 
                        on which the working group performs the 
                        examination;
                            (iii) the preparedness and ability of 
                        Federal agencies to adopt Internet of Things 
                        technology as of the date on which the working 
                        group performs the examination and in the 
                        future; and
                            (iv) any additional security measures that 
                        Federal agencies may need to take to--
                                    (I) safely and securely use the 
                                Internet of Things, including measures 
                                that ensure the security of critical 
                                infrastructure; and
                                    (II) enhance the resiliency of 
                                Federal systems against cyber threats 
                                to the Internet of Things; and
                    (E) in carrying out the examinations required under 
                subclauses (I) and (II) of subparagraph (D)(iv), ensure 
                to the maximum extent possible the coordination of the 
                current and future activities of the Federal Government 
                relating to security with respect to the Internet of 
                Things.
            (3) Agency representatives.--In convening the working group 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall have discretion to 
        appoint representatives from Federal agencies and departments 
        as appropriate and shall specifically consider seeking 
        representation from--
                    (A) the Department of Commerce, including--
                            (i) the National Telecommunications and 
                        Information Administration;
                            (ii) the National Institute of Standards 
                        and Technology; and
                            (iii) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                        Administration;
                    (B) the Department of Transportation;
                    (C) the Department of Homeland Security;
                    (D) the Office of Management and Budget;
                    (E) the National Science Foundation;
                    (F) the Commission;
                    (G) the Federal Trade Commission;
                    (H) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
                    (I) the Department of Energy; and
                    (J) the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
            (4) Nongovernmental stakeholders.--The working group shall 
        consult with nongovernmental stakeholders with expertise 
        relating to the Internet of Things, including--
                    (A) the steering committee;
                    (B) information and communications technology 
                manufacturers, suppliers, service providers, and 
                vendors;
                    (C) subject matter experts representing industrial 
                sectors other than the technology sector that can 
                benefit from the Internet of Things, including the 
                transportation, energy, agriculture, and health care 
                sectors;
                    (D) small, medium, and large businesses;
                    (E) think tanks and academia;
                    (F) nonprofit organizations and consumer groups;
                    (G) security experts;
                    (H) rural stakeholders; and
                    (I) other stakeholders with relevant expertise, as 
                determined by the Secretary.
            (5) Steering committee.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established within the 
                Department of Commerce a steering committee to advise 
                the working group.
                    (B) Duties.--The steering committee shall advise 
                the working group with respect to--
                            (i) the identification of any Federal 
                        regulations, statutes, grant practices, 
                        programs, budgetary or jurisdictional 
                        challenges, and other sector-specific policies 
                        that are inhibiting, or could inhibit, the 
                        development of the Internet of Things;
                            (ii) situations in which the use of the 
                        Internet of Things is likely to deliver 
                        significant and scalable economic and societal 
                        benefits to the United States, including 
                        benefits from or to--
                                    (I) smart traffic and transit 
                                technologies;
                                    (II) augmented logistics and supply 
                                chains;
                                    (III) sustainable infrastructure;
                                    (IV) precision agriculture;
                                    (V) environmental monitoring;
                                    (VI) public safety; and
                                    (VII) health care;
                            (iii) whether adequate spectrum is 
                        available to support the growing Internet of 
                        Things and what legal or regulatory barriers 
                        may exist to providing any spectrum needed in 
                        the future;
                            (iv) policies, programs, or multi-
                        stakeholder activities that--
                                    (I) promote or are related to the 
                                privacy of individuals who use or are 
                                affected by the Internet of Things;
                                    (II) may enhance the security of 
                                the Internet of Things, including the 
                                security of critical infrastructure;
                                    (III) may protect users of the 
                                Internet of Things; and
                                    (IV) may encourage coordination 
                                among Federal agencies with 
                                jurisdiction over the Internet of 
                                Things;
                            (v) the opportunities and challenges 
                        associated with the use of Internet of Things 
                        technology by small businesses; and
                            (vi) any international proceeding, 
                        international negotiation, or other 
                        international matter affecting the Internet of 
                        Things to which the United States is or should 
                        be a party.
                    (C) Membership.--The Secretary shall appoint to the 
                steering committee members representing a wide range of 
                stakeholders outside of the Federal Government with 
                expertise relating to the Internet of Things, 
                including--
                            (i) information and communications 
                        technology manufacturers, suppliers, service 
                        providers, and vendors;
                            (ii) subject matter experts representing 
                        industrial sectors other than the technology 
                        sector that can benefit from the Internet of 
                        Things, including the transportation, energy, 
                        agriculture, and health care sectors;
                            (iii) small, medium, and large businesses;
                            (iv) think tanks and academia;
                            (v) nonprofit organizations and consumer 
                        groups;
                            (vi) security experts;
                            (vii) rural stakeholders; and
                            (viii) other stakeholders with relevant 
                        expertise, as determined by the Secretary.
                    (D) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the steering committee shall 
                submit to the working group a report that includes any 
                findings or recommendations of the steering committee.
                    (E) Independent advice.--
                            (i) In general.--The steering committee 
                        shall set the agenda of the steering committee 
                        in carrying out the duties of the steering 
                        committee under subparagraph (B).
                            (ii) Suggestions.--The working group may 
                        suggest topics or items for the steering 
                        committee to study, and the steering committee 
                        shall take those suggestions into consideration 
                        in carrying out the duties of the steering 
                        committee.
                            (iii) Report.--The steering committee shall 
                        ensure that the report submitted under 
                        subparagraph (D) is the result of the 
                        independent judgment of the steering committee.
                    (F) No compensation for members.--A member of the 
                steering committee shall serve without compensation.
                    (G) Termination.--The steering committee shall 
                terminate on the date on which the working group 
                submits the report under paragraph (6).
            (6) Report to congress.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the working group shall 
                submit to Congress a report that includes--
                            (i) the findings and recommendations of the 
                        working group with respect to the duties of the 
                        working group under paragraph (2);
                            (ii) the report submitted by the steering 
                        committee under paragraph (5)(D), as the report 
                        was received by the working group;
                            (iii) recommendations for action or reasons 
                        for inaction, as applicable, with respect to 
                        each recommendation made by the steering 
                        committee in the report submitted under 
                        paragraph (5)(D); and
                            (iv) an accounting of any progress made by 
                        Federal agencies to implement recommendations 
                        made by the working group or the steering 
                        committee.
                    (B) Copy of report.--The working group shall submit 
                a copy of the report described in subparagraph (A) to--
                            (i) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                        Transportation and the Committee on Energy and 
                        Natural Resources of the Senate;
                            (ii) the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
                        of the House of Representatives; and
                            (iii) any other committee of Congress, upon 
                        request to the working group.
    (c) Assessing Spectrum Needs.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission, in consultation with the 
        National Telecommunications and Information Administration, 
        shall issue a notice of inquiry seeking public comment on the 
        current, as of the date of enactment of this Act, and future 
        spectrum needs to enable better connectivity relating to the 
        Internet of Things.
            (2) Requirements.--In issuing the notice of inquiry under 
        paragraph (1), the Commission shall seek comments that consider 
        and evaluate--
                    (A) whether adequate spectrum is available, or is 
                planned for allocation, for commercial wireless 
                services that could support the growing Internet of 
                Things;
                    (B) if adequate spectrum is not available for the 
                purposes described in subparagraph (A), how to ensure 
                that adequate spectrum is available for increased 
                demand with respect to the Internet of Things;
                    (C) what regulatory barriers may exist to providing 
                any needed spectrum that would support uses relating to 
                the Internet of Things; and
                    (D) what the role of unlicensed and licensed 
                spectrum is and will be in the growth of the Internet 
                of Things.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives a report summarizing the comments submitted in 
        response to the notice of inquiry issued under paragraph (1).

             Subtitle E--Plans, Reports, and Other Matters

SEC. 5241. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRATEGY ON ARTIFICIAL 
              INTELLIGENCE STANDARDS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a report on the role of the Department of Defense in the 
development of artificial intelligence standards.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
an assessment of each of the following:
            (1) The need for the Department of Defense to develop an 
        artificial intelligence standards strategy.
            (2) Any efforts to date on the development of such a 
        strategy.
            (3) The ways in which an artificial intelligence standards 
        strategy will improve the national security.
            (4) How the Secretary intends to collaborate with--
                    (A) the Director of the National Institute of 
                Standards and Technology;
                    (B) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
                    (C) the intelligence community;
                    (D) the Secretary of State;
                    (E) representatives of private industry, 
                specifically representatives of the defense industrial 
                base; and
                    (F) representatives of any other agencies, 
                entities, organizations, or persons the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.

SEC. 5242. STUDY ON ESTABLISHMENT OF ENERGETICS PROGRAM OFFICE.

    The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering shall 
conduct a study to assess the feasibility and advisability of 
establishing a program office to coordinate energetics research and to 
ensure a robust and sustained energetics material enterprise.

SEC. 5243. DEEPFAKE REPORT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Digital content forgery.--The term ``digital content 
        forgery'' means the use of emerging technologies, including 
        artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques, to 
        fabricate or manipulate audio, visual, or text content with the 
        intent to mislead.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Homeland Security.
    (b) Reports on Digital Content Forgery Technology.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 5 years, the 
        Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and 
        Technology, shall produce a report on the state of digital 
        content forgery technology.
            (2) Contents.--Each report produced under paragraph (1) 
        shall include--
                    (A) an assessment of the underlying technologies 
                used to create or propagate digital content forgeries, 
                including the evolution of such technologies;
                    (B) a description of the types of digital content 
                forgeries, including those used to commit fraud, cause 
                harm, or violate civil rights recognized under Federal 
                law;
                    (C) an assessment of how foreign governments, and 
                the proxies and networks thereof, use, or could use, 
                digital content forgeries to harm national security;
                    (D) an assessment of how non-governmental entities 
                in the United States use, or could use, digital content 
                forgeries;
                    (E) an assessment of the uses, applications, 
                dangers, and benefits of deep learning technologies 
                used to generate high fidelity artificial content of 
                events that did not occur, including the impact on 
                individuals;
                    (F) an analysis of the methods used to determine 
                whether content is genuinely created by a human or 
                through digital content forgery technology and an 
                assessment of any effective heuristics used to make 
                such a determination, as well as recommendations on how 
                to identify and address suspect content and elements to 
                provide warnings to users of the content;
                    (G) a description of the technological counter-
                measures that are, or could be, used to address 
                concerns with digital content forgery technology; and
                    (H) any additional information the Secretary 
                determines appropriate.
            (3) Consultation and public hearings.--In producing each 
        report required under paragraph (1), the Secretary may--
                    (A) consult with any other agency of the Federal 
                Government that the Secretary considers necessary; and
                    (B) conduct public hearings to gather, or otherwise 
                allow interested parties an opportunity to present, 
                information and advice relevant to the production of 
                the report.
            (4) Form of report.--Each report required under paragraph 
        (1) shall be produced in unclassified form, but may contain a 
        classified annex.
            (5) Applicability of foia.--Nothing in this section, or in 
        a report produced under this section, shall be construed to 
        allow the disclosure of information or a record that is exempt 
        from public disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United 
        States Code (commonly known as the ``Freedom of Information 
        Act'').
            (6) Applicability of the paperwork reduction act.--
        Subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code 
        (commonly known as the ``Paperwork Reduction Act''), shall not 
        apply to this section.

SEC. 5244. CISA DIRECTOR.

    Subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in section 5313, by inserting after the item relating 
        to ``Administrator of the Transportation Security 
        Administration'' the following:
        ``Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
        Agency.''; and
            (2) in section 5314, by striking the item relating to 
        ``Director, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
        Agency.''.

SEC. 5245. AGENCY REVIEW.

    (a) Requirement of Comprehensive Review.--In order to strengthen 
the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall conduct a comprehensive review of the ability 
of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency to fulfill--
            (1) the missions of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure 
        Security Agency; and
            (2) the recommendations detailed in the report issued by 
        the Cyberspace Solarium Commission under section 1652(k) of the 
        John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232).
    (b) Elements of Review.--The review conducted under subsection (a) 
shall include the following elements:
            (1) An assessment of how additional budget resources could 
        be used by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
        for projects and programs that--
                    (A) support the national risk management mission;
                    (B) support public and private-sector 
                cybersecurity;
                    (C) promote public-private integration; and
                    (D) provide situational awareness of cybersecurity 
                threats.
            (2) A comprehensive force structure assessment of the 
        Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency including--
                    (A) a determination of the appropriate size and 
                composition of personnel to accomplish the mission of 
                the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, 
                as well as the recommendations detailed in the report 
                issued by the Cyberspace Solarium Commission under 
                section 1652(k) of the John S. McCain National Defense 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public Law 115-
                232);
                    (B) an assessment of whether existing personnel are 
                appropriately matched to the prioritization of threats 
                in the cyber domain and risks in critical 
                infrastructure;
                    (C) an assessment of whether the Cybersecurity and 
                Infrastructure Security Agency has the appropriate 
                personnel and resources to--
                            (i) perform risk assessments, threat 
                        hunting, incident response to support both 
                        private and public cybersecurity;
                            (ii) carry out the responsibilities of the 
                        Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security 
                        Agency related to the security of Federal 
                        information and Federal information systems; 
                        and
                            (iii) carry out the critical infrastructure 
                        responsibilities of the Cybersecurity and 
                        Infrastructure Security Agency, including 
                        national risk management; and
                    (D) an assessment of whether current structure, 
                personnel, and resources of regional field offices are 
                sufficient in fulfilling agency responsibilities and 
                mission requirements.
    (c) Submission of Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
submit a report to Congress detailing the results of the assessments 
required under subsection (b), including recommendations to address any 
identified gaps.

SEC. 5246. GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION REVIEW.

    (a) Review.--The Administrator of the General Services 
Administration shall--
            (1) conduct a review of current Cybersecurity and 
        Infrastructure Security Agency facilities and assess the 
        suitability of such facilities to fully support current and 
        projected mission requirements nationally and regionally; and
            (2) make recommendations regarding resources needed to 
        procure or build a new facility or augment existing facilities 
        to ensure sufficient size and accommodations to fully support 
        current and projected mission requirements, including the 
        integration of personnel from the private sector and other 
        departments and agencies.
    (b) Submission of Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the General Services 
Administration shall submit the review required under subsection (a) 
to--
            (1) the President;
            (2) the Secretary of Homeland Security; and
            (3) to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of 
        the House of Representatives.

                 TITLE LIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

SEC. 5331. USE OF COST SAVINGS REALIZED FROM INTERGOVERNMENTAL SERVICES 
              AGREEMENTS FOR INSTALLATION-SUPPORT SERVICES.

    (a) Requirement.--Section 2679 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Use of Cost Savings Realized.--(1) With respect to a fiscal 
year in which cost savings are realized as a result of entering into an 
intergovernmental support agreement under this section for a military 
installation, the Secretary concerned shall make not less than 25 
percent of the amount of such savings available for use by the 
commander of the installation solely for sustainment restoration and 
modernization requirements that have been approved by the major 
subordinate command or equivalent component.
    ``(2) Not less frequently than annually, the Secretary concerned 
shall certify to the congressional defense committee the amount of the 
cost savings achieved, the source and type of intergovernmental support 
agreement that achieved the savings, and the manner in which those 
savings were deployed, disaggregated by installation.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2021 and each subsequent fiscal year.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

SEC. 5351. REPORT ON NON-PERMISSIVE, GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM DENIED 
              AIRFIELD CAPABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than February 1, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
assessing the ability of each combatant command to conduct all-weather, 
day-night airfield operations in a non-permissive, global positioning 
system denied environment.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) An assessment of current air traffic control and 
        landing systems at existing airfields and contingency 
        airfields.
            (2) An assessment of the ability of each combatant command 
        to conduct all-weather, day-night airfield flight operations in 
        a non-permissive, global positioning system denied environment 
        at existing and contingency airfields, including aircraft 
        tracking and precision landing.
            (3) An assessment of the ability of each combatant command 
        to rapidly set up and conduct operations at alternate 
        airfields, including the ability to receive and deploy forces 
        in a non-permissive, global positioning system denied 
        environment.
            (4) A list of backup systems in place or pre-positioned to 
        be able to reconstitute operations after an attack.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 5371. INCREASE OF AMOUNTS AVAILABLE TO MARINE CORPS FOR BASE 
              OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT.

    (a) Increase of Base Operations and Support.--The amount authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance 
for the Marine Corps, is hereby increased by $47,600,000, with the 
amount of the increase to be available for base operations and support 
(SAG BSS1).
    (b) Offsets.--
            (1) Operation and maintenance.--The amount authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance 
        for the Marine Corps, is hereby reduced by $4,700,000, with the 
        amount of the reduction to be derived from SAG 1A1A.
            (2) Modification kit procurement.--The amount authorized to 
        be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for procurement for the 
        Marine Corps, is hereby reduced by $3,100,000, with the amount 
        of the reduction to be derived from Line 7, Modification Kits.
            (3) Direct support munition procurement.--The amount 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 for 
        procurement and ammunition for the Marine Corps, is hereby 
        reduced by $39,800,000, with the amount of the reduction to be 
        derived from Line 17, Direct Support Munitions.

SEC. 5372. MODERNIZATION OF CONGRESSIONAL REPORTS PROCESS.

    (a) Increase in O&M, Defense-wide Activities.--The amount 
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 by section 301 is 
hereby increased by $2,000,000, with the amount of the increase to be 
available for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide activities, for 
SAG 4GTN Office of the Secretary of Defense for modernization of the 
congressional reports process.
    (b) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal 
year 2021 by section 301 is hereby decreased by $2,000,000, with the 
amount of the decrease to be applied against amounts available for 
operation and maintenance, Army, for SAG 421 for Servicewide 
Transportation for historical underexecution.

                  TITLE LV--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

SEC. 5516. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 
              COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ON RECRUITMENT 
              AND RETENTION OF FEMALE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

     Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth a comprehensive plan to implement and accomplish the 
recommendations for the Department of Defense in keeping with the May 
2020 report of the Government Accountability Office titled ``Female 
Active-Duty Personnel: Guidance and Plans Needed for Recruitment and 
Retention Efforts'', namely the recommendations as follows:
            (1) The Secretary of Defense must ensure that the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness provides 
        guidance to each of the Armed Forces to develop plans, with 
        clearly defined goals, performance measures, and timeframes, to 
        guide and monitor the efforts in connection with the 
        recruitment and retention of female members.
            (2) Each Secretary of a military department must develop a 
        plan, with clearly defined goals, performance measures, and 
        timeframes, to guide and monitor the efforts of each Armed 
        Force under the jurisdiction of such Secretary in connection 
        with the recruitment and retention of female members in such 
        Armed Force.

                   Subtitle F--Decorations and Awards

SEC. 5551. REPORT ON REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES TO IMPLEMENT PROGRAMS 
              ON AWARD OF MEDALS OR COMMENDATIONS TO HANDLERS OF 
              MILITARY WORKING DOGS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
regulations and other procedures prescribed by the Secretaries of the 
military departments in order to implement and carry out the programs 
of the military departments on the award of medals or other 
commendations to handlers of military working dogs required by section 
582 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2019 (Public Law 115-232; 132 Stat. 1787; 10 U.S.C. 1121 note 
prec.).

Subtitle G--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

               PART II--MILITARY FAMILY READINESS MATTERS

SEC. 5571. INDEPENDENT STUDY AND REPORT ON MILITARY SPOUSE 
              UNDEREMPLOYMENT.

    (a) Independent Study.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into a contract with a Federally funded research and development center 
to conduct a study on underemployment among military spouses. The study 
shall consider, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) The prevalence of unemployment and underemployment 
        among military spouses, including differences by Armed Force, 
        region, State, education level, and income level.
            (2) The causes of unemployment and underemployment among 
        military spouses.
            (3) The differences in unemployment and underemployment 
        between military spouses and civilians.
            (4) Barriers to small business ownership and 
        entrepreneurship faced by military spouses.
    (b) Submittal to DoD.--Not later than 240 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Federally funded research and 
development center with which the Secretary contracts pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary a report containing the 
results of the study conducted pursuant to that subsection.
    (c) Transmittal to Congress.--Not later than 270 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress the report under subsection (b), 
without change.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the following--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, the Committee on Small 
        Business and Entrepreneurship, and Committee on Appropriations 
        of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Education and Labor, the Committee on Small Business, and 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

SEC. 5586. QUESTIONS REGARDING RACISM, ANTI-SEMITISM, AND SUPREMACISM 
              IN WORKPLACE SURVEYS ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF 
              DEFENSE.

    Section 593 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Questions Required.--'' before ``The 
        Secretary'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, racist, anti-
        Semitic, or supremacist'' after ``extremist''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2021, the Secretary shall 
submit to Congress a report including--
            ``(1) the text of the questions included in surveys under 
        subsection (a); and
            ``(2) which surveys include such questions.''.

SEC. 5587. BRIEFING ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF REQUIREMENTS ON 
              CONNECTIONS OF RETIRING AND SEPARATING MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES WITH COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS AND 
              RELATED ENTITIES.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall brief Congress on the current status of 
the implementation of the requirements of section 570F of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92; 133 
Stat. 1401; 10 U.S.C. 1142 note), relating to connections of retiring 
and separating members of the Armed Forces with community-based 
organizations and related entities.

SEC. 5590. PILOT PROGRAMS ON REMOTE PROVISION BY NATIONAL GUARD TO 
              STATE GOVERNMENTS AND NATIONAL GUARDS OF OTHER STATES OF 
              CYBERSECURITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN TRAINING, 
              PREPARATION, AND RESPONSE TO CYBER INCIDENTS.

    (a) Ineffectiveness of Section 590.--Section 590 shall have no 
force or effect.
    (b) Pilot Programs Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Air Force may each, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Homeland Security and in consultation with the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau, conduct a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of the development of a capability within the National 
Guard through which a National Guard of a State remotely provides State 
governments and National Guards of other States (whether or not in the 
same Armed Force as the providing National Guard) with cybersecurity 
technical assistance in training, preparation, and response to cyber 
incidents. If such Secretary elects to conduct such a pilot program, 
such Secretary shall be known as an ``administering Secretary'' for 
purposes of this section, and any reference in this section to ``the 
pilot program'' shall be treated as a reference to the pilot program 
conducted by such Secretary.
    (c) Assessment Prior to Commencement.--For purposes of evaluating 
existing platforms, technologies, and capabilities under subsection 
(d), and for establishing eligibility and participation requirements 
under subsection (d), for purposes of the pilot program, an 
administering Secretary, in consultation with the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau, shall, prior to commencing the pilot program--
            (1) conduct an assessment of--
                    (A) existing cyber response capacities of the Army 
                National Guard or Air National Guard, as applicable, in 
                each State; and
                    (B) any existing platform, technology, or 
                capability of a National Guard that provides the 
                capability described in subsection (b); and
            (2) determine whether a platform, technology, or capability 
        described in paragraph (1)(B) is suitable for expansion for 
        purposes of the pilot program.
    (d) Elements.--A pilot program under subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A technical capability that enables the National Guard 
        of a State to remotely provide cybersecurity technical 
        assistance to State governments and National Guards of other 
        States, without the need to deploy outside its home State.
            (2) Policies, processes, procedures, and authorities for 
        use of such a capability, including with respect to the 
        following:
                    (A) The roles and responsibilities of both 
                requesting and deploying State governments and National 
                Guards with respect to such technical assistance, 
                taking into account the matters specified in subsection 
                (g).
                    (B) Necessary updates to the Defense Cyber Incident 
                Coordinating Procedure, or any other applicable 
                Department of Defense instruction, for purposes of 
                implementing the capability.
                    (C) Program management and governance structures 
                for deployment and maintenance of the capability.
                    (D) Security when performing remote support, 
                including such in matters such as authentication and 
                remote sensing.
            (3) The conduct, in coordination with the Chief of the 
        National Guard Bureau and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        and in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation, other Federal agencies, and appropriate non-
        Federal entities, of at least one exercise to demonstrate the 
        capability, which exercise shall include the following:
                    (A) Participation of not fewer than two State 
                governments and their National Guards.
                    (B) Circumstances designed to test and validate the 
                policies, processes, procedures, and authorities 
                developed pursuant to paragraph (2).
                    (C) An after action review of the exercise.
    (e) Use of Existing Technology.--An administering Secretary may use 
an existing platform, technology, or capability to provide the 
capability described in subsection (b) under the pilot program.
    (f) Eligibility and Participation Requirements.--An administering 
Secretary shall, in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau, establish requirements with respect to eligibility and 
participation of State governments and their National Guards in the 
pilot program.
    (g) Construction With Certain Current Authorities.--
            (1) Command authorities.--Nothing in a pilot program under 
        subsection (b) may be construed as affecting or altering the 
        command authorities otherwise applicable to any unit of the 
        National Guard unit participating in the pilot program.
            (2) Emergency management assistance compact.--Nothing in a 
        pilot program may be construed as affecting or altering any 
        current agreement under the Emergency Management Assistance 
        Compact, or any other State agreements, or as determinative of 
        the future content of any such agreement.
    (h) Evaluation Metrics.--An administering Secretary shall, in 
consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, establish metrics to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the pilot program.
    (i) Term.--A pilot program under subsection (b) shall terminate on 
the date that is three years after the date of the commencement of the 
pilot program.
    (j) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the commencement of the pilot program, the administering 
        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report setting forth a description of the pilot 
        program and such other matters in connection with the pilot 
        program as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        termination of the pilot program, the administering Secretary, 
        in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
        the pilot program. The report shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the pilot program, including 
                any partnerships entered into by the Chief of the 
                National Guard Bureau under the pilot program.
                    (B) A summary of the assessment performed prior to 
                the commencement of the pilot program in accordance 
                with subsection (c).
                    (C) A summary of the evaluation metrics established 
                in accordance with subsection (h).
                    (D) An assessment of the effectiveness of the pilot 
                program, and of the capability described in subsection 
                (b) under the pilot program.
                    (E) A description of costs associated with the 
                implementation and conduct of the pilot program.
                    (F) A recommendation as to the termination or 
                extension of the pilot program, or the making of the 
                pilot program permanent with an expansion nationwide.
                    (G) An estimate of the costs of making the pilot 
                program permanent and expanding it nationwide in 
                accordance with the recommendation in subparagraph (F).
                    (H) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of the pilot program.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (k) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each 
of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

                   TITLE LVII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

          Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Provisions

SEC. 5707. PILOT PROGRAM ON RECEIPT OF NON-GENERIC PRESCRIPTION 
              MAINTENANCE MEDICATIONS UNDER TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS 
              PROGRAM.

    The reference in section 707(c) to section 1074g(a)(9)(C)(i) of 
title 10, United States Code, is deemed to be a reference to section 
1074g(a)(9)(C)(ii) of title 10, United States Code.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 5723. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO WAIVE REQUIREMENTS 
              DURING NATIONAL EMERGENCIES FOR PURPOSES OF PROVISION OF 
              HEALTH CARE.

    Section 723 and the amendments made by that section shall have no 
force or effect.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

SEC. 5741. STUDY AND REPORT ON SURGE CAPACITY OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              TO ESTABLISH NEGATIVE AIR ROOM CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS IN 
              MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.

    (a) Study.--The Director of the Defense Health Agency shall conduct 
a study on the use, scalability, and military requirements for 
commercial off the shelf negative air pressure room containment systems 
in order to improve pandemic preparedness at military medical treatment 
facilities worldwide, to include an assessment of whether such systems 
would improve the readiness of the Department of Defense to expand 
capability and capacity to evaluate and treat patients at such 
facilities during a pandemic.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Health Agency shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report on the findings of the study conducted 
under subsection (a).

 TITLE LVIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

                  Subtitle A--Industrial Base Matters

SEC. 5801. REPORT ON USE OF DOMESTIC NONAVAILABILITY DETERMINATIONS.

    Not later than September 30, 2021, and annually thereafter, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit a report to congressional defense 
committees--
            (1) describing in detail the use of any waiver or exception 
        to the requirements of section 2533a of title 10, United States 
        Code, relating to domestic nonavailability determinations;
            (2) providing reasoning for the use of each such waiver or 
        exception; and
            (3) providing an assessment of the impact on the use of 
        such waivers or exceptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic and 
        associated challenges with investments in domestic sources.

SEC. 5802. REPORT ON THE EFFECT OF THE DEFENSE MANUFACTURING 
              COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM ON THE DEFENSE SUPPLY CHAIN.

    Not later than September 30, 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to Congress a report evaluating the effect of the Defense 
Manufacturing Communities Support Program on the defense supply chain. 
The evaluation should consider the program's effect on--
            (1) the diversification of the supply chain;
            (2) procurement costs; and
            (3) efficient procurement processes.

SEC. 5803. IMPROVING IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY PERTAINING TO THE 
              NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE.

    Section 803(d)(2) is deemed amended as follows:
            (1) Subparagraph (A) of such section is deemed to read as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) analysis of the national security impacts, 
                cost, and benefits to the United States and allies of 
                the inclusion of such additional member nation in the 
                national technology and industrial base, including 
                criticality to program and mission accomplishment;''.
            (2) In the stem of subparagraph (B) of such section, 
        ``costs,'' is deemed to be read ``impacts, costs,''.
            (3) In clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) of such section 
        ``base;'' is deemed to read ``base, including costs to 
        reconstitute capability should such capability be lost to 
        competition;''.

SEC. 5808. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS PERTAINING TO PRINTED CIRCUIT 
              BOARDS.

    Section 808 is deemed to include at the end the following:
    ``(h) Sense of Congress on Mitigating Risks of Reliance on Certain 
Sources of Supply and Manufacturing for Printed Circuit Boards.--It is 
the sense of Congress that--
            ``(1) the Department of Defense must take steps to reduce 
        and mitigate risks of reliance on certain sources of supply and 
        manufacturing for printed circuit boards; and
            ``(2) the provisions of this section are intended to 
        augment, rather than reduce or supersede, current efforts to 
        reduce and mitigate such risks.''.

SEC. 5812. MISCELLANEOUS LIMITATIONS ON THE PROCUREMENT OF GOODS OTHER 
              THAN UNITED STATES GOODS.

    Notwithstanding the amendments made by section 812--
            (1) the subparagraph (A) proposed to be included in 
        subsection (a)(2) of section 2534 of title 10, United States 
        Code, shall not be included;
            (2) subsection (b) of such section is deemed to read as 
        follows:
    ``(b) Manufacturer in the National Technology and Industrial 
Base.--A manufacturer meets the requirements of this subsection if the 
manufacturer is part of the national technology and industrial base.''; 
and
            (3) the amendment to subsection (h) of such section is 
        deemed to insert the following: ``subsection (a)(2)''.

Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

SEC. 5841. WAIVERS OF CERTAIN CONDITIONS FOR PROGRESS PAYMENTS UNDER 
              CERTAIN CONTRACTS DURING THE COVID-19 NATIONAL EMERGENCY.

    During the national emergency declared under the National 
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the 
coronavirus disease 2019 (commonly referred to as ``COVID-19''), the 
Secretary of Defense may waive section 2307(e)(2) of title 10, United 
States Code, with respect to progress payments for any undefinitized 
contract.

                   Subtitle E--Small Business Matters

SEC. 5871. OFFICE OF SMALL BUSINESS AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS 
              UTILIZATION.

    Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)) is 
amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following: 
        ``If the Government Accountability Office has determined that a 
        Federal agency is not in compliance with all of the 
        requirements under this subsection, the Federal agency shall, 
        not later than 120 days after that determination or 120 days 
        after the date of enactment of this sentence, whichever is 
        later, submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
        Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small 
        Business of the House of Representatives a report that includes 
        the reasons why the Federal agency is not in compliance and the 
        specific actions that the Federal agency will take to comply 
        with the requirements under this subsection.''; and
            (2) by striking ``The management of each such office'' and 
        inserting ``The management of each Office of Small Business and 
        Disadvantaged Business Utilization''.

SEC. 5872. ELIGIBILITY OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA 
              ISLANDS FOR CERTAIN SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
              PROGRAMS.

    The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 21(a) (15 U.S.C. 648(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting before ``The 
                Administration shall require'' the following new 
                sentence: ``The previous sentence shall not apply to an 
                applicant that has its principal office located in the 
                Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(C)(ix), by striking ``and 
                American Samoa'' and inserting ``American Samoa, and 
                the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands''; and
            (2) in section 34(a)(9) (15 U.S.C. 657d(a)(9)), by striking 
        ``and American Samoa'' and inserting ``American Samoa, and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands''.

SEC. 5873. DISASTER DECLARATION IN RURAL AREAS.

    (a) In General.--Section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
636(b)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (15) the following:
            ``(16) Disaster declaration in rural areas.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph--
                            ``(i) the term `rural area' means an area 
                        with a population of less than 200,000 outside 
                        an urbanized area; and
                            ``(ii) the term `significant damage' means, 
                        with respect to property, uninsured losses of 
                        not less than 40 percent of the estimated fair 
                        replacement value or pre-disaster fair market 
                        value of the damaged property, whichever is 
                        lower.
                    ``(B) Disaster declaration.--Notwithstanding 
                section 123.3(a) of title 13, Code of Federal 
                Regulations, or any successor regulation, the 
                Administrator may declare a disaster in a rural area 
                for which a major disaster was declared by the 
                President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford 
                Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
                5170) if--
                            ``(i) the Governor of the State in which 
                        the rural area is located requests such a 
                        declaration; and
                            ``(ii) any home, small business concern, 
                        private nonprofit organization, or small 
                        agricultural cooperative has incurred 
                        significant damage in the rural area.
                    ``(C) SBA report.--Not later than 120 days after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, and every year 
                thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the 
                Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House 
                of Representatives a report on, with respect to the 1-
                year period preceding submission of the report--
                            ``(i) any economic injury that resulted 
                        from a major disaster declared by the President 
                        under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford 
                        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
                        (42 U.S.C. 5170) in a rural area;
                            ``(ii) each request for assistance made by 
                        the Governor of a State under subparagraph 
                        (B)(i) and the response of the Administrator, 
                        including the timeline for each response; and
                            ``(iii) any regulatory changes that will 
                        impact the ability of communities in rural 
                        areas to obtain disaster assistance under this 
                        subsection.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business 
Administration shall issue regulations to carry out the amendment made 
by subsection (a).
    (c) GAO Report.--
            (1) Definition of rural area.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``rural area'' means an area with a population of less than 
        200,000 outside an urbanized area.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
        Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small 
        Business of the House of Representatives a report on--
                    (A) any unique challenges that communities in rural 
                areas face compared to communities in metropolitan 
                areas when seeking to obtain disaster assistance under 
                section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
                636(b)); and
                    (B) legislative recommendations for improving 
                access to disaster assistance for communities in rural 
                areas.

SEC. 5874. TEMPORARY EXTENSION FOR 8(A) PARTICIPANTS.

    The Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall allow 
a small business concern (as defined in section 3 of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) participating in the program established under 
section 8(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)) on the date 
of enactment of this section to extend such participation by a period 
of 1 year.

SEC. 5875. MAXIMUM AWARD PRICE FOR SOLE SOURCE MANUFACTURING CONTRACTS.

    The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 8 (15 U.S.C. 637)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)(D)(i)(II), by striking 
                ``$5,000,000'' and inserting ``$7,000,000''; and
                    (B) in subsection (m)--
                            (i) in paragraph (7)(B)(i), by striking 
                        ``$6,500,000'' and inserting ``$7,000,000''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in paragraph (8)(B)(i), by striking 
                        ``$6,500,000'' and inserting ``$7,000,000'';
            (2) in section 31(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I) (15 U.S.C. 
        657a(c)(2)(A)(ii)(I)), by striking ``$5,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$7,000,000''; and
            (3) in section 36(a)(2)(A) (15 U.S.C. 657f(a)(2)(A)), by 
        striking ``$5,000,000'' and inserting ``$7,000,000''.

SEC. 5876. ANNUAL REPORTS REGARDING THE SBIR PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``SBIR'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 9(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
        638(e)(4)); and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Defense.
    (b) Reports Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and not later than 120 days after the end of 
each fiscal year that begins after that date of enactment, the 
Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary of each branch of the 
Armed Forces, shall submit, through the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Research and Engineering, to Congress a report that addresses--
            (1) the ways in which the Secretary, as of the date on 
        which the report is submitted, is using incentives to 
        Department of Defense program managers under section 9(y)(6)(B) 
        of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(y)(6)(B)) to increase 
        the number of Phase II SBIR contracts awarded by the Secretary 
        that lead to technology transition into programs of record or 
        fielded systems, which shall include the judgment of the 
        Secretary regarding the potential effect of providing monetary 
        incentives to those officers for that purpose;
            (2) the extent to which the Department of Defense has 
        developed simplified and standardized procedures and model 
        contracts throughout the agency for Phase I, Phase II, and 
        Phase III SBIR awards, as required under section 9(hh)(2)(A)(i) 
        of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(hh)(2)(A)(i));
            (3) with respect to each report submitted under this 
        section after the submission of the first such report, the 
        extent to which any incentives described in this section and 
        implemented by the Secretary have resulted in an increased 
        number of Phase II contracts under the SBIR program of the 
        Department of Defense leading to technology transition into 
        programs of record or fielded systems;
            (4) the extent to which Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III 
        projects under the SBIR program of the Department of Defense 
        align with the modernization priorities of the Department, 
        including with respect to artificial intelligence, 
        biotechnology, autonomy, cybersecurity, directed energy, fully 
        networked command, control, and communication systems, 
        microelectronics, quantum science, hypersonics, and space; and
            (5) any other action taken, and proposed to be taken, to 
        increase the number of Department of Defense Phase II SBIR 
        contracts leading to technology transition into programs of 
        record or fielded systems.

SEC. 5877. SMALL BUSINESS LOANS FOR NONPROFIT CHILD CARE PROVIDERS.

    Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) Nonprofit child care providers.--
                    ``(A) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term 
                `covered nonprofit child care provider' means an 
                organization--
                            ``(i) that--
                                    ``(I) is in compliance with 
                                licensing requirements for child care 
                                providers of the State in which the 
                                organization is located;
                                    ``(II) is described in section 
                                501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code 
                                of 1986 and exempt from tax under 
                                section 501(a) of such Code; and
                                    ``(III) is primarily engaged in 
                                providing child care for children from 
                                birth to compulsory school age;
                            ``(ii) for which each employee and regular 
                        volunteer complies with the criminal background 
                        check requirements under section 658H(b) of the 
                        Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 
                        1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858f(b)); and
                            ``(iii) that may--
                                    ``(I) provide care for school-age 
                                children outside of school hours or 
                                outside of the school year; or
                                    ``(II) offer preschool or 
                                prekindergarten educational programs.
                    ``(B) Eligibility for loan programs.--
                Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, 
                a covered nonprofit child care provider shall be deemed 
                to be a small business concern for purposes of any 
                program under this Act or the Small Business Investment 
                Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) under which--
                            ``(i) the Administrator may make loans to 
                        small business concerns;
                            ``(ii) the Administrator may guarantee 
                        timely payment of loans to small business 
                        concerns; or
                            ``(iii) the recipient of a loan made or 
                        guaranteed by the Administrator may make loans 
                        to small business concerns.''.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 5891. LISTING OF OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY CONSORTIA.

    Beginning not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall maintain on the government-
wide point of entry for contracting opportunities, Beta.SAM.gov (or any 
successor system), a list of the consortia used by the Department of 
Defense to announce or otherwise make available contracting 
opportunities using other transaction authority (OTA).

SEC. 5892. REPORT RECOMMENDING DISPOSITION OF NOTES TO CERTAIN SECTIONS 
              OF TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2021, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
recommending the disposition of provisions of law found in the notes to 
the following sections of title 10, United States Code:
            (1) Section 2313.
            (2) Section 2364.
            (3) Section 2432.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) for each provision of law included as a note to a 
        section listed in such subsection, a recommendation whether 
        such provision--
                    (A) should be repealed because the provision is no 
                longer operative or is otherwise obsolete;
                    (B) should be codified as a section to title 10, 
                United States Code, because the section has, and is 
                anticipated to continue to have in the future, 
                significant relevance; or
                    (C) should remain as a note to such section; and
            (2) any legislative proposals appropriate to improve the 
        intent and effect of the sections listed in such subsection.
    (c) Technical Corrections.--(1) Section 2362(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``Assistant Secretary of Defense 
for Research and Engineering'' both places it appears and inserting 
``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering''.
    (2) Section 804(c) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended by striking ``The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, 
Control, Communications, and Intelligence, in consultation with the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics,'' and inserting ``The Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment''.

SEC. 5893. APPLICABILITY OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT RELATED TO NOTIONAL 
              MILESTONES AND STANDARD TIMELINES FOR FOREIGN MILITARY 
              SALES.

    Section 887 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2018 (Public Law 115 -91; 22 U.S.C. 2761 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c) Applicability.--The reporting requirements under this section 
apply only to foreign military sales processes within the Department of 
Defense.''.

SEC. 5894. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO MITIGATING RISKS RELATED 
              TO FOREIGN OWNERSHIP, CONTROL, OR INFLUENCE OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS.

    (a) Compliance Assessment.--Subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of 
section 847(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new clause:
                    ``(v) A requirement for the Secretary to require 
                reports and conduct examinations on a periodic basis of 
                covered contractors and subcontractors in order to 
                assess compliance with the requirements of this 
                section.''.
    (b) Additional Requirements for Responsibility Determinations.--
Subparagraph (B) of such paragraph is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and
            (3) by inserting after clause (ii) the following new 
        clause:
                            ``(iii) procedures for appropriately 
                        responding to changes in contractor or 
                        subcontractor beneficial ownership status based 
                        on changes in disclosures of their beneficial 
                        ownership relating to whether they are under 
                        FOCI and based on the reports and examinations 
                        required by subparagraph (A)(v); and''.
    (c) Timelines and Milestones for Implementation.--
            (1) Implementation plan.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall provide to the congressional defense committees a plan 
        and schedule for implementation of the requirements of section 
        847 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2020 (Public Law 116-92), including--
                    (A) a timeline for issuance of regulations, 
                development of training for appropriate officials, and 
                development of systems for reporting of beneficial 
                ownership and FOCI by contractors and subcontractors;
                    (B) designation of officials and organizations 
                responsible for execution; and
                    (C) interim milestones to be met in implementing 
                the plan.
            (2) Revision of regulations, directives, guidance, 
        training, and policies.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        revise relevant directives, guidance, training, and policies, 
        including revising the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
        Supplement as needed, to fully implement section 847 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public 
        Law 116-92), as amended by this section.

      TITLE LIX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

SEC. 5951. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON 
              VULNERABILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RESULTING 
              FROM OFFSHORE TECHNICAL SUPPORT CALL CENTERS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report on vulnerabilities in connection with 
the provision of services by offshore technical support call centers to 
the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description and assessment of the location of all 
        offshore technical support call centers.
            (2) A description and assessment of the types of 
        information shared by the Department with foreign nationals at 
        offshore technical support call centers.
            (3) An assessment of the extent to which access to such 
        information by foreign nationals creates vulnerabilities to the 
        information technology network of the Department.
    (c) Offshore Technical Support Call Center Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``offshore technical support call center'' means a 
call center that--
            (1) is physically located outside the United States;
            (2) employs individuals who are foreign nationals; and
            (3) may be contacted by personnel of the Department to 
        provide technical support relating to technology used by the 
        Department.

                      TITLE LX--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 6001. UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE (COMPTROLLER) REPORTS ON 
              IMPROVING THE BUDGET JUSTIFICATION AND RELATED MATERIALS 
              OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than April 1 of each of 2021 
through 2025, the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report on improving the 
following:
            (1) Modernization of covered materials, including the 
        following:
                    (A) Updating the format of such materials in order 
                to account for significant improvements in document 
                management and data visualization.
                    (B) Expanding the scope and quality of data 
                included in such materials.
            (2) Streamlining of the production of covered materials 
        within the Department of Defense.
            (3) Transmission of covered materials to Congress.
            (4) Availability of adequate resources and capabilities to 
        permit the Department to integrate changes to covered materials 
        together with its submittal of current covered materials.
            (5) Promotion of the flow between the Department and the 
        congressional defense committees of other information required 
        by Congress for its oversight of budgeting for the Department 
        and the future-years defense programs.
    (b) Covered Materials Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
materials'' means the following:
            (1) Materials submitted in support of the budget of the 
        President for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Materials submitted in connection with the future-years 
        defense program for a fiscal year under section 221 of title 
        10, United States Code.

SEC. 6002. REPORT ON FISCAL YEAR 2022 BUDGET REQUEST REQUIREMENTS IN 
              CONNECTION WITH AIR FORCE OPERATIONS IN THE ARCTIC.

    The Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees, not later than 30 days after submission of the 
budget justification documents submitted to Congress in support of the 
budget of the President for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted pursuant to 
section 1105 of title 31, United States Code), a report that includes 
the following:
            (1) A description of the manner in which amounts requested 
        for the Air Force in the budget for fiscal year 2022 support 
        Air Force operations in the Arctic.
            (2) A list of the procurement initiatives and research, 
        development, test, and evaluation initiatives funded by that 
        budget that are primarily intended to enhance the ability of 
        the Air Force to deploy to or operate in the Arctic region, or 
        to defend the northern approach to the United States homeland.
            (3) An assessment of the adequacy of the infrastructure of 
        Air Force installations in Alaska and in the States along the 
        northern border of the continental United States to support 
        deployments to and operations in the Arctic region, including 
        an assessment of runways, fuel lines, and aircraft maintenance 
        capacity for purposes of such support.

SEC. 6003. PROVIDING INFORMATION TO STATES REGARDING UNDELIVERED 
              SAVINGS BONDS.

    Section 3105 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(f)(1) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the 
Secretary shall provide each State, as digital or other electronically 
searchable forms become available (including digital images), with 
sufficient information to identify the registered owner of any 
applicable savings bond with a registration address that is within such 
State, including the serial number of the bond, the name and registered 
address of such owner, and any registered beneficiaries.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other 
guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this 
subsection, including rules to--
            ``(A) protect the privacy of the owners of applicable 
        savings bonds;
            ``(B) ensure that any information provided to a State under 
        this subsection shall be used solely to locate such owners and 
        assist them in redeeming such bonds with the United States 
        Treasury; and
            ``(C) ensure that owners of applicable savings bonds 
        seeking to redeem such bonds with the United States Treasury 
        are able to do so in an expeditious manner.
    ``(3) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this 
subsection, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Finance of the Senate 
a report assessing all efforts to satisfy the requirement under 
paragraph (1).
    ``(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `applicable savings 
bond' means a matured and unredeemed savings bond.''.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 6046. CONDITIONS FOR PERMANENTLY BASING UNITED STATES EQUIPMENT OR 
              ADDITIONAL MILITARY UNITS IN HOST COUNTRIES WITH AT-RISK 
              VENDORS IN 5G OR 6G NETWORKS.

    (a) Ineffectiveness of Section 1046.--Section 1046 shall have no 
force or effect.
    (b) In General.--Prior to a decision for basing a major weapon 
system or an additional military unit comparable to or larger than a 
battalion, squadron, or naval combatant for permanent basing to a host 
nation with at-risk 5th generation (5G) or sixth generation (6G) 
wireless network equipment, software, and services, including the use 
of telecommunications equipment, software, and services provided by 
vendors such as Huawei and ZTE, where United States military personnel 
and their families will be directly connected or subscribers to 
networks that include such at-risk equipment, software, and services in 
their official duties or in the conduct of personal affairs, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide a certification to Congress that 
includes--
            (1) an acknowledgment by the host nation of the risk posed 
        by the network architecture;
            (2) a description of steps being taken by the host nation 
        to mitigate any potential risks to the weapon systems, military 
        units, or personnel, and the Department of Defense's assessment 
        of those efforts;
            (3) a description of steps being taken by the United States 
        Government to mitigate any potential risks to the weapon 
        systems, military units, or personnel; and
            (4) a description of any defense mutual agreements between 
        the host nation and the United States intended to allay the 
        costs of risk mitigation posed by the at-risk infrastructure.
    (c) Applicability.--The conditions in subsection (b) apply to the 
permanent long-term stationing of equipment and personnel, and do not 
apply to short-term deployments or rotational presence to military 
installations outside the United States in connection with exercises, 
dynamic force employment, contingency operations, or combat operations.
    (d) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that contains an assessment 
of--
            (1) the risk to personnel, equipment, and operations of the 
        Department of Defense in host countries posed by the current or 
        intended use by such countries of 5G or 6G telecommunications 
        architecture provided by at-risk vendors; and
            (2) measures required to mitigate the risk described in 
        paragraph (1), including the merit and feasibility of the 
        relocation of certain personnel or equipment of the Department 
        to another location without the presence of 5G or 6G 
        telecommunications architecture provided by at-risk vendors.
    (e) Form.--The report required by subsection (c) shall be submitted 
in a classified form with an unclassified summary.

SEC. 6047. ANTIDISCRIMINATION.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Elijah E. 
Cummings Federal Employee Antidiscrimination Act of 2020''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--Section 102 of the Notification and Federal 
Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 
note) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) accountability in the enforcement of the rights of 
        Federal employees is furthered when Federal agencies agree to 
        take appropriate disciplinary action against Federal employees 
        who are found to have intentionally committed discriminatory 
        (including retaliatory) acts;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (5)(A)--
                    (A) by striking ``nor is accountability'' and 
                inserting ``accountability is not''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``for what, by law, the agency is 
                responsible'' after ``under this Act''.
    (c) Notification of Violation.--Section 202 of the Notification and 
Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 
U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Notification of Final Agency Action.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which an event described in paragraph (2) occurs with respect 
        to a finding of discrimination (including retaliation), the 
        head of the Federal agency subject to the finding shall provide 
        notice--
                    ``(A) on the public internet website of the agency, 
                in a clear and prominent location linked directly from 
                the home page of that website;
                    ``(B) stating that a finding of discrimination 
                (including retaliation) has been made; and
                    ``(C) which shall remain posted for not less than 1 
                year.
            ``(2) Events described.--An event described in this 
        paragraph is any of the following:
                    ``(A) All appeals of a final action by a Federal 
                agency involving a finding of discrimination (including 
                retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law covered 
                by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a) have been 
                exhausted.
                    ``(B) All appeals of a final decision by the Equal 
                Employment Opportunity Commission involving a finding 
                of discrimination (including if the finding included a 
                finding of retaliation) prohibited by a provision of 
                law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a) 
                have been exhausted.
                    ``(C) A court of jurisdiction issues a final 
                judgment involving a finding of discrimination 
                (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision of 
                law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a).
            ``(3) Contents.--A notification provided under paragraph 
        (1) with respect to a finding of discrimination (including 
        retaliation) shall--
                    ``(A) identify the date on which the finding was 
                made, the date on which each discriminatory act 
                occurred, and the law violated by each such 
                discriminatory act; and
                    ``(B) advise Federal employees of the rights and 
                protections available under the provisions of law 
                covered by paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 201(a).''.
    (d) Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Electronic format requirement.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 203(a) of the Notification 
                and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation 
                Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended, in the 
                matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``Homeland Security and'' 
                        before ``Governmental Affairs'';
                            (ii) by striking ``on Government Reform'' 
                        and inserting ``on Oversight and Reform'';
                            (iii) by inserting ``any Member of Congress 
                        (upon request to the agency),'' before ``the 
                        Equal Employment Opportunity Commission''; and
                            (iv) by inserting ``(in an electronic 
                        format prescribed by the Director of the Office 
                        of Personnel Management),'' after ``an annual 
                        report''.
                    (B) Effective date.--The amendment made by 
                subparagraph (A)(iii) shall take effect on the date 
                that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Transition period.--Notwithstanding the 
                requirements of section 203(a) of the Notification and 
                Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act 
                of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note), the report required under 
                such section 203(a) may be submitted in an electronic 
                format, as prescribed by the Director of the Office of 
                Personnel Management, during the period beginning on 
                the date of enactment of this Act and ending on the 
                effective date in subparagraph (B).
            (2) Reporting requirement for disciplinary action.--Section 
        203 of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination 
        and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Disciplinary Action Report.--Not later than 120 days after 
the date on which a Federal agency takes final action, or a Federal 
agency receives a final decision issued by the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission, involving a finding of discrimination 
(including retaliation) in violation of a provision of law covered by 
paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a), as applicable, the applicable 
Federal agency shall submit to the Commission a report stating--
            ``(1) whether disciplinary action has been proposed against 
        a Federal employee as a result of the violation; and
            ``(2) the reasons for any disciplinary action proposed 
        under paragraph (1).''.
    (e) Data to Be Posted by Employing Federal Agencies.--Section 
301(b) of the Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and 
Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (9)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking the period 
                at the end and inserting ``, and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) with respect to each finding described in 
                subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) the date of the finding,
                            ``(ii) the affected Federal agency,
                            ``(iii) the law violated, and
                            ``(iv) whether a decision has been made 
                        regarding disciplinary action as a result of 
                        the finding.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) Data regarding each class action complaint filed 
        against the agency alleging discrimination (including 
        retaliation), including--
                    ``(A) information regarding the date on which each 
                complaint was filed,
                    ``(B) a general summary of the allegations alleged 
                in the complaint,
                    ``(C) an estimate of the total number of plaintiffs 
                joined in the complaint, if known,
                    ``(D) the current status of the complaint, 
                including whether the class has been certified, and
                    ``(E) the case numbers for the civil actions in 
                which discrimination (including retaliation) has been 
                found.''.
    (f) Data to Be Posted by the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission.--Section 302(b) of the Notification and Federal Employee 
Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is 
amended by striking ``(10)'' and inserting ``(11)''.
    (g) Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and 
Retaliation Act of 2002 Amendments.--
            (1) Notification requirements.--Title II of the 
        Notification and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination and 
        Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 207. COMPLAINT TRACKING.

    ``Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Elijah 
E. Cummings Federal Employee Antidiscrimination Act of 2019, each 
Federal agency shall establish a system to track each complaint of 
discrimination arising under section 2302(b)(1) of title 5, United 
States Code, and adjudicated through the Equal Employment Opportunity 
process from the filing of a complaint with the Federal agency to 
resolution of the complaint, including whether a decision has been made 
regarding disciplinary action as the result of a finding of 
discrimination.

``SEC. 208. NOTATION IN PERSONNEL RECORD.

    ``If a Federal agency takes an adverse action covered under section 
7512 of title 5, United States Code, against a Federal employee for an 
act of discrimination (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision 
of law covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a), the agency 
shall, after all appeals relating to that action have been exhausted, 
include a notation of the adverse action and the reason for the action 
in the personnel record of the employee.''.
            (2) Processing and referral.--The Notification and Federal 
        Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 
        U.S.C. 2301 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:

                  ``TITLE IV--PROCESSING AND REFERRAL

``SEC. 401. PROCESSING AND RESOLUTION OF COMPLAINTS.

    ``Each Federal agency shall--
            ``(1) be responsible for the fair and impartial processing 
        and resolution of complaints of employment discrimination 
        (including retaliation) prohibited by a provision of law 
        covered by paragraph (1) or (2) of section 201(a); and
            ``(2) establish a model Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Program that--
                    ``(A) is not under the control, either structurally 
                or practically, of the agency's Office of Human Capital 
                or Office of the General Counsel (or the equivalent);
                    ``(B) is devoid of internal conflicts of interest 
                and ensures fairness and inclusiveness within the 
                agency; and
                    ``(C) ensures the efficient and fair resolution of 
                complaints alleging discrimination (including 
                retaliation).

``SEC. 402. NO LIMITATION ON ADVICE OR COUNSEL.

    ``Nothing in this title shall prevent a Federal agency or a 
subcomponent of a Federal agency, or the Department of Justice, from 
providing advice or counsel to employees of that agency (or 
subcomponent, as applicable) in the resolution of a complaint.

``SEC. 403. HEAD OF PROGRAM SUPERVISED BY HEAD OF AGENCY.

    ``The head of each Federal agency's Equal Employment Opportunity 
Program shall report directly to the head of the agency.

``SEC. 404. REFERRALS OF FINDINGS OF DISCRIMINATION.

    ``(a) EEOC Findings of Discrimination.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
        which the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (referred to 
        in this section as the `Commission') receives, or should have 
        received, a Federal agency report required under section 
        203(c), the Commission may refer the matter to which the report 
        relates to the Office of Special Counsel if the Commission 
        determines that the Federal agency did not take appropriate 
        action with respect to the finding that is the subject of the 
        report.
            ``(2) Notifications.--The Commission shall--
                    ``(A) notify the applicable Federal agency if the 
                Commission refers a matter to the Office of Special 
                Counsel under paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) with respect to a fiscal year, include in the 
                Annual Report of the Federal Workforce of the 
                Commission covering that fiscal year--
                            ``(i) the number of referrals made under 
                        paragraph (1) during that fiscal year; and
                            ``(ii) a brief summary of each referral 
                        described in clause (i).
    ``(b) Referrals to Special Counsel.--The Office of Special Counsel 
shall accept and review a referral from the Commission under subsection 
(a)(1) for purposes of pursuing disciplinary action under the authority 
of the Office against a Federal employee who commits an act of 
discrimination (including retaliation).
    ``(c) Notification.--The Office of Special Counsel shall notify the 
Commission and the applicable Federal agency in a case in which--
            ``(1) the Office of Special Counsel pursues disciplinary 
        action under subsection (b); and
            ``(2) the Federal agency imposes some form of disciplinary 
        action against a Federal employee who commits an act of 
        discrimination (including retaliation).
    ``(d) Special Counsel Approval.--A Federal agency may not take 
disciplinary action against a Federal employee for an alleged act of 
discrimination (including retaliation) referred by the Commission under 
this section, except in accordance with the requirements of section 
1214(f) of title 5, United States Code.''.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--The table of contents in 
        section 1(b) of the Notification and Federal Employee 
        Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of 2002 (5 U.S.C. 2301 
        note) is amended--
                    (A) by inserting after the item relating to section 
                206 the following:

``Sec. 207. Complaint tracking.
``Sec. 208. Notation in personnel record.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

                  ``TITLE IV--PROCESSING AND REFERRAL

``Sec. 401. Processing and resolution of complaints.
``Sec. 402. No limitation on advice or counsel.
``Sec. 403. Head of Program supervised by head of agency.
``Sec. 404. Referrals of findings of discrimination.''.
    (h) Nondisclosure Agreement Limitation.--Section 2302(b)(13) of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``agreement does not'' and inserting the 
        following: ``agreement--
                    ``(A) does not'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as so designated, by inserting 
        ``or the Office of Special Counsel'' after ``Inspector 
        General''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) prohibits or restricts an employee or 
                applicant for employment from disclosing to Congress, 
                the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an 
                agency, or any other agency component responsible for 
                internal investigation or review any information that 
                relates to any violation of any law, rule, or 
                regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, 
                an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific 
                danger to public health or safety, or any other 
                whistleblower protection; or''.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 6061. MARITIME SECURITY AND DOMAIN AWARENESS.

    (a) Progress Report on Maritime Security.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
        coordination with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
        Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and the heads 
        of other appropriate Federal agencies, shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the steps taken 
        since December 20, 2019, to make further use of the following 
        mechanisms to combat IUU fishing:
                    (A) Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing in existing 
                shiprider agreements to which the United States is a 
                party.
                    (B) Entry into shiprider agreements that include 
                counter-IUU fishing with priority flag states and 
                countries in priority regions with which the United 
                States does not already have such agreements.
                    (C) Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing in the mission 
                of the Combined Maritime Forces.
                    (D) Inclusion of counter-IUU fishing exercises in 
                the annual at-sea exercises conducted by the Department 
                of Defense, in coordination with the United States 
                Coast Guard.
                    (E) Development of partnerships similar to the 
                Oceania Maritime Security Initiative and the Africa 
                Maritime Law Enforcement Partnership in other priority 
                regions.
            (2) Element.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include a description of specific steps taken by the Secretary 
        of the Navy with respect to each mechanism described in 
        paragraph (1), including a detailed description of any security 
        cooperation engagement undertaken to combat IUU fishing by such 
        mechanisms and resulting coordination between the Department of 
        the Navy and the Coast Guard.
    (b) Assessment of Service Coordination on Maritime Domain 
Awareness.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall 
        enter into an agreement with the Secretary of the department in 
        which the Coast Guard is operating, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Commerce, to assess the available commercial 
        solutions for collecting, sharing, and disseminating among 
        United States maritime services and partner countries maritime 
        domain awareness information relating to illegal maritime 
        activities, including IUU fishing.
            (2) Elements.--The assessment carried out pursuant to an 
        agreement under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) build on the ongoing Coast Guard assessment 
                related to autonomous vehicles;
                    (B) consider appropriate commercially and 
                academically available technological solutions; and
                    (C) consider any limitation related to 
                affordability, exportability, maintenance, and 
                sustainment requirements and any other factor that may 
                constrain the suitability of such solutions for use in 
                a joint and combined environment, including the 
                potential provision of such solutions to one or more 
                partner countries.
            (3) Submittal to congress.--Not later than one year after 
        entering into an agreement under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        of the Navy shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services, 
        the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Natural Resources, the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives the 
        assessment prepared in accordance with the agreement.
    (c) Report on Use of Fishing Fleets by Foreign Governments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Naval 
        Intelligence shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services, 
        the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Natural Resources, the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a 
        report on the use by governments of foreign countries of 
        distant-water fishing fleets as extensions of the official 
        maritime security forces of such countries.
            (2) Element.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An analysis of the manner in which fishing 
                fleets are leveraged in support of the naval operations 
                and policies of foreign countries more generally.
                    (B) A consideration of--
                            (i) threats posed, on a country-by-country 
                        basis, to the fishing vessels and other vessels 
                        of the United States and partner countries;
                            (ii) risks to Navy and Coast Guard 
                        operations of the United States, and the naval 
                        and coast guard operations of partner 
                        countries; and
                            (iii) the broader challenge to the 
                        interests of the United States and partner 
                        countries.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be in 
        unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, any term that is also used in 
the Maritime SAFE Act (Public Law 116-92) shall have the meaning given 
such term in that Act.

SEC. 6062. REPORT ON PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS AND PLANNING OF THE NAVY.

    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report containing a description of the plans of 
the Navy to prepare for and respond to future pandemics, including 
future outbreaks of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19). The report 
shall include a written description of plans, including any necessary 
corresponding budgetary actions, for the following:
            (1) Efforts to prevent and mitigate the impacts of future 
        pandemics at both private and public shipyards, and to protect 
        the health and safety of both military personnel and civilian 
        workers at such shipyards.
            (2) Protocol and mitigation strategies once an outbreak of 
        a highly contagious illness occurs aboard a Navy vessel while 
        underway.
            (3) Development and adoption of technologies and protocols 
        to prevent and mitigate the spread of future pandemics aboard 
        Navy ships and among Navy personnel, including technologies and 
        protocols in connection with the following:
                    (A) Artificial intelligence and data-driven 
                infectious disease modeling and interventions.
                    (B) Shipboard airflow management and disinfectant 
                technologies.
                    (C) Personal protective equipment, sensors, and 
                diagnostic systems.
                    (D) Minimally crewed and autonomous supply 
                vehicles.

SEC. 6063. STUDY AND REPORT ON THE AFFORDABILITY OF INSULIN.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the 
Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, shall--
            (1) conduct a study that examines, for each type or 
        classification of diabetes (including type 1 diabetes, type 2 
        diabetes, gestational diabetes, and other conditions causing 
        reliance on insulin), the effect of the affordability of 
        insulin on--
                    (A) adherence to insulin prescriptions;
                    (B) rates of diabetic ketoacidosis;
                    (C) downstream impacts of insulin adherence, 
                including rates of dialysis treatment and end-stage 
                renal disease;
                    (D) spending by Federal health programs on acute 
                episodes that could have been averted by adhering to an 
                insulin prescription; and
                    (E) other factors, as appropriate, to understand 
                the impacts of insulin affordability on health 
                outcomes, Federal Government spending (including under 
                the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) and the Medicaid 
                program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
                U.S.C. 1396 et seq.)), and insured and uninsured 
                individuals with diabetes; and
            (2) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, submit to Congress a report on the study conducted 
        under paragraph (1).

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 6081. MODIFICATION TO FIRST DIVISION MONUMENT.

    (a) Authorization.--The Society of the First Infantry Division may 
make modifications to the First Division Monument located on Federal 
land in President's Park in the District of Columbia to honor the dead 
of the First Infantry Division, United States Forces, in--
            (1) Operation Desert Storm;
            (2) Operation Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn; and
            (3) Operation Enduring Freedom.
    (b) Modifications.--Modifications to the First Division Monument 
may include construction of additional plaques and stone plinths on 
which to put plaques.
    (c) Applicability of Commemorative Works Act.--Chapter 89 of title 
40, United States Code (commonly known as the ``Commemorative Works 
Act''), shall apply to the design and placement of the commemorative 
elements authorized by this section, except that subsections (b) and 
(c) of section 8903 shall not apply.
    (d) Collaboration.--The First Infantry Division of the Department 
of the Army shall collaborate with the Secretary of Defense to provide 
to the Society of the First Infantry Division the list of names to be 
added to the First Division Monument in accordance with subsection (a).
    (e) Funding.--Federal funds may not be used for modifications of 
the First Division Monument authorized by this section.

SEC. 6082. ESTIMATE OF DAMAGES FROM FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 
              ORDER 20-48.

    Section 1083 is deemed to include at the end the following:
    ``(d) Distribution of Estimate.--As soon as practicable after 
submitting an estimate as described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) 
and making the certification described in paragraph (2) of such 
subsection, the Secretary shall make such estimate available to any 
licensee operating under the order and authorization described in such 
subsection.
    ``(e) Authority of Secretary of Defense to Seek Recovery of 
Costs.--The Secretary of Defense may work directly with any licensee 
(or any future assignee, successor, or purchaser) affected by the Order 
and Authorization adopted by the Federal Communications Commission on 
April 19, 2020 (FCC 20-48) to seek recovery of costs incurred by the 
Department of Defense as a result of the effect of such order and 
authorization.
    ``(f) Reimbursement.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish and 
        facilitate a process for any licensee (or any future assignee, 
        successor, or purchaser) subject to the authorization and order 
        described in subsection (a) to provide reimbursement to the 
        Department of Defense, only to the extent provided in 
        appropriations Acts, for the covered costs and eligible 
        reimbursable costs submitted and certified to the congressional 
        defense committees under such subsection.
            ``(2) Use of funds.--The Secretary shall use any funds 
        received under this subsection, to the extent and in such 
        amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts, for 
        covered costs described in subsection (b) and the range of 
        eligible reimbursable costs identified under subsection (a)(1).
            ``(3) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary establishes the process required by 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report on such process.
    ``(g) Good Faith.--The execution of the responsibilities of this 
section by the Department of Defense shall be considered to be good 
faith actions pursuant to paragraph 104 of the Order and Authorization 
(FCC 20-48) described in subsection (a).''.

SEC. 6083. DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTION.

    (a) Reauthorization of Diesel Emissions Reduction Program.--Section 
797(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16137(a)) is amended 
by striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2024''.
    (b) Recognizing Differences in Diesel Vehicle, Engine, Equipment, 
and Fleet Use.--
            (1) National grant, rebate, and loan programs.--Section 
        792(c)(4)(D) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        16132(c)(4)(D)) is amended by inserting ``, recognizing 
        differences in typical vehicle, engine, equipment, and fleet 
        use throughout the United States'' before the semicolon.
            (2) State grant, rebate, and loan programs.--Section 
        793(b)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
        16133(b)(1)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) the recognition, for purposes of implementing 
                this section, of differences in typical vehicle, 
                engine, equipment, and fleet use throughout the United 
                States, including expected useful life; and''.
    (c) Reallocation of Unused State Funds.--Section 793(c)(2)(C) of 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16133(c)(2)(C)) is amended 
beginning in the matter preceding clause (i) by striking ``to each 
remaining'' and all that follows through ``this paragraph'' in clause 
(ii) and inserting ``to carry out section 792''.

SEC. 6084. UTILIZING SIGNIFICANT EMISSIONS WITH INNOVATIVE 
              TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Utilizing 
Significant Emissions with Innovative Technologies Act'' or the ``USE 
IT Act''.
    (b) Research, Investigation, Training, and Other Activities.--
Section 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(3), in the first sentence of the 
        matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``percursors'' 
        and inserting ``precursors''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively, and 
                indenting appropriately;
                    (B) in the undesignated matter following 
                subparagraph (D) (as so redesignated)--
                            (i) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``The Administrator'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(5) Coordination and avoidance of duplication.--The 
        Administrator''; and
                            (ii) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``Nothing'' and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Effect of subsection.--Nothing'';
                    (C) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so 
                redesignated)--
                            (i) in the third sentence, by striking 
                        ``Such program'' and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Program inclusions.--The program under this 
        subsection'';
                            (ii) in the second sentence--
                                    (I) by inserting ``States, 
                                institutions of higher education,'' 
                                after ``scientists,''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``Such strategies 
                                and technologies shall be developed'' 
                                and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Participation requirement.--Such strategies and 
        technologies described in paragraph (1) shall be developed''; 
        and
                            (iii) in the first sentence, by striking 
                        ``In carrying out'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Certain carbon dioxide activities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In carrying out paragraph (3)(A) 
                with respect to carbon dioxide, the Administrator shall 
                carry out the activities described in each of 
                subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E).
                    ``(B) Direct air capture research.--
                            ``(i) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:
                                    ``(I) Board.--The term `Board' 
                                means the Direct Air Capture Technology 
                                Advisory Board established by clause 
                                (iii)(I).
                                    ``(II) Dilute.--The term `dilute' 
                                means a concentration of less than 1 
                                percent by volume.
                                    ``(III) Direct air capture.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--The 
                                        term `direct air capture', with 
                                        respect to a facility, 
                                        technology, or system, means 
                                        that the facility, technology, 
                                        or system uses carbon capture 
                                        equipment to capture carbon 
                                        dioxide directly from the air.
                                            ``(bb) Exclusion.--The term 
                                        `direct air capture' does not 
                                        include any facility, 
                                        technology, or system that 
                                        captures carbon dioxide--

                                                    ``(AA) that is 
                                                deliberately released 
                                                from a naturally 
                                                occurring subsurface 
                                                spring; or

                                                    ``(BB) using 
                                                natural photosynthesis.

                                    ``(IV) Intellectual property.--The 
                                term `intellectual property' means--
                                            ``(aa) an invention that is 
                                        patentable under title 35, 
                                        United States Code; and
                                            ``(bb) any patent on an 
                                        invention described in item 
                                        (aa).
                            ``(ii) Technology prizes.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Not later than 1 
                                year after the date of enactment of the 
                                USE IT Act, the Administrator, in 
                                consultation with the Secretary of 
                                Energy, shall establish a program to 
                                provide, and shall provide, financial 
                                awards on a competitive basis for 
                                direct air capture from media in which 
                                the concentration of carbon dioxide is 
                                dilute.
                                    ``(II) Duties.--In carrying out 
                                this clause, the Administrator shall--
                                            ``(aa) subject to subclause 
                                        (III), develop specific 
                                        requirements for--

                                                    ``(AA) the 
                                                competition process; 
                                                and

                                                    ``(BB) the 
                                                demonstration of 
                                                performance of approved 
                                                projects;

                                            ``(bb) offer financial 
                                        awards for a project designed--

                                                    ``(AA) to the 
                                                maximum extent 
                                                practicable, to capture 
                                                more than 10,000 tons 
                                                of carbon dioxide per 
                                                year; and

                                                    ``(BB) to operate 
                                                in a manner that would 
                                                be commercially viable 
                                                in the foreseeable 
                                                future (as determined 
                                                by the Board); and

                                            ``(cc) to the maximum 
                                        extent practicable, make 
                                        financial awards to 
                                        geographically diverse 
                                        projects, including at least--

                                                    ``(AA) 1 project in 
                                                a coastal State; and

                                                    ``(BB) 1 project in 
                                                a rural State.

                                    ``(III) Public participation.--In 
                                carrying out subclause (II)(aa), the 
                                Administrator shall--
                                            ``(aa) provide notice of 
                                        and, for a period of not less 
                                        than 60 days, an opportunity 
                                        for public comment on, any 
                                        draft or proposed version of 
                                        the requirements described in 
                                        subclause (II)(aa); and
                                            ``(bb) take into account 
                                        public comments received in 
                                        developing the final version of 
                                        those requirements.
                            ``(iii) Direct air capture technology 
                        advisory board.--
                                    ``(I) Establishment.--There is 
                                established an advisory board to be 
                                known as the `Direct Air Capture 
                                Technology Advisory Board'.
                                    ``(II) Composition.--The Board 
                                shall be composed of 9 members 
                                appointed by the Administrator, who 
                                shall provide expertise in--
                                            ``(aa) climate science;
                                            ``(bb) physics;
                                            ``(cc) chemistry;
                                            ``(dd) biology;
                                            ``(ee) engineering;
                                            ``(ff) economics;
                                            ``(gg) business management; 
                                        and
                                            ``(hh) such other 
                                        disciplines as the 
                                        Administrator determines to be 
                                        necessary to achieve the 
                                        purposes of this subparagraph.
                                    ``(III) Term; vacancies.--
                                            ``(aa) Term.--A member of 
                                        the Board shall serve for a 
                                        term of 6 years.
                                            ``(bb) Vacancies.--A 
                                        vacancy on the Board--

                                                    ``(AA) shall not 
                                                affect the powers of 
                                                the Board; and

                                                    ``(BB) shall be 
                                                filled in the same 
                                                manner as the original 
                                                appointment was made.

                                    ``(IV) Initial meeting.--Not later 
                                than 30 days after the date on which 
                                all members of the Board have been 
                                appointed, the Board shall hold the 
                                initial meeting of the Board.
                                    ``(V) Meetings.--The Board shall 
                                meet at the call of the Chairperson or 
                                on the request of the Administrator.
                                    ``(VI) Quorum.--A majority of the 
                                members of the Board shall constitute a 
                                quorum, but a lesser number of members 
                                may hold hearings.
                                    ``(VII) Chairperson and vice 
                                chairperson.--The Board shall select a 
                                Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from 
                                among the members of the Board.
                                    ``(VIII) Compensation.--Each member 
                                of the Board may be compensated at not 
                                to exceed the daily equivalent of the 
                                annual rate of basic pay in effect for 
                                a position at level V of the Executive 
                                Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, 
                                United States Code, for each day during 
                                which the member is engaged in the 
                                actual performance of the duties of the 
                                Board.
                                    ``(IX) Duties.--The Board shall 
                                advise the Administrator on carrying 
                                out the duties of the Administrator 
                                under this subparagraph.
                                    ``(X) FACA.--The Federal Advisory 
                                Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall 
                                apply to the Board.
                            ``(iv) Intellectual property.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--As a condition 
                                of receiving a financial award under 
                                this subparagraph, an applicant shall 
                                agree to vest the intellectual property 
                                of the applicant derived from the 
                                technology in 1 or more entities that 
                                are incorporated in the United States.
                                    ``(II) Reservation of license.--The 
                                United States--
                                            ``(aa) may reserve a 
                                        nonexclusive, nontransferable, 
                                        irrevocable, paid-up license, 
                                        to have practiced for or on 
                                        behalf of the United States, in 
                                        connection with any 
                                        intellectual property described 
                                        in subclause (I); but
                                            ``(bb) shall not, in the 
                                        exercise of a license reserved 
                                        under item (aa), publicly 
                                        disclose proprietary 
                                        information relating to the 
                                        license.
                                    ``(III) Transfer of title.--Title 
                                to any intellectual property described 
                                in subclause (I) shall not be 
                                transferred or passed, except to an 
                                entity that is incorporated in the 
                                United States, until the expiration of 
                                the first patent obtained in connection 
                                with the intellectual property.
                            ``(v) Authorization of appropriations.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Of the amounts 
                                authorized to be appropriated for the 
                                Environmental Protection Agency, 
                                $35,000,000 shall be available to carry 
                                out this subparagraph, to remain 
                                available until expended.
                                    ``(II) Requirement.--Research 
                                carried out using amounts made 
                                available under subclause (I) may not 
                                duplicate research funded by the 
                                Department of Energy.
                            ``(vi) Termination of authority.--The Board 
                        and all authority provided under this 
                        subparagraph shall terminate not later than 10 
                        years after the date of enactment of the USE IT 
                        Act.
                    ``(C) Carbon dioxide utilization research.--
                            ``(i) Definition of carbon dioxide 
                        utilization.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                        `carbon dioxide utilization' refers to 
                        technologies or approaches that lead to the use 
                        of carbon dioxide--
                                    ``(I) through the fixation of 
                                carbon dioxide through photosynthesis 
                                or chemosynthesis, such as through the 
                                growing of algae or bacteria;
                                    ``(II) through the chemical 
                                conversion of carbon dioxide to a 
                                material or chemical compound in which 
                                the carbon dioxide is securely stored; 
                                or
                                    ``(III) through the use of carbon 
                                dioxide for any other purpose for which 
                                a commercial market exists, as 
                                determined by the Administrator.
                            ``(ii) Program.--The Administrator, in 
                        consultation with the Secretary of Energy, 
                        shall carry out a research and development 
                        program for carbon dioxide utilization to 
                        promote existing and new technologies that 
                        transform carbon dioxide generated by 
                        industrial processes into a product of 
                        commercial value, or as an input to products of 
                        commercial value.
                            ``(iii) Technical and financial 
                        assistance.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                        date of enactment of the USE IT Act, in 
                        carrying out this subsection, the 
                        Administrator, in consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Energy, shall support research and 
                        infrastructure activities relating to carbon 
                        dioxide utilization by providing technical 
                        assistance and financial assistance in 
                        accordance with clause (iv).
                            ``(iv) Eligibility.--To be eligible to 
                        receive technical assistance and financial 
                        assistance under clause (iii), a carbon dioxide 
                        utilization project shall--
                                    ``(I) have access to an emissions 
                                stream generated by a stationary source 
                                within the United States that is 
                                capable of supplying not less than 250 
                                metric tons per day of carbon dioxide 
                                for research;
                                    ``(II) have access to adequate 
                                space for a laboratory and equipment 
                                for testing small-scale carbon dioxide 
                                utilization technologies, with onsite 
                                access to larger test bays for scale-
                                up; and
                                    ``(III) have existing partnerships 
                                with institutions of higher education, 
                                private companies, States, or other 
                                government entities.
                            ``(v) Coordination.--In supporting carbon 
                        dioxide utilization projects under this 
                        paragraph, the Administrator shall consult with 
                        the Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate, 
                        with the head of any other relevant Federal 
                        agency, States, the private sector, and 
                        institutions of higher education to develop 
                        methods and technologies to account for the 
                        carbon dioxide emissions avoided by the carbon 
                        dioxide utilization projects.
                            ``(vi) Authorization of appropriations.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Of the amounts 
                                authorized to be appropriated for the 
                                Environmental Protection Agency, 
                                $50,000,000 shall be available to carry 
                                out this subparagraph, to remain 
                                available until expended.
                                    ``(II) Requirement.--Research 
                                carried out using amounts made 
                                available under subclause (I) may not 
                                duplicate research funded by the 
                                Department of Energy.
                    ``(D) Deep saline formation report.--
                            ``(i) Definition of deep saline 
                        formation.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--In this 
                                subparagraph, the term `deep saline 
                                formation' means a formation of 
                                subsurface geographically extensive 
                                sedimentary rock layers saturated with 
                                waters or brines that have a high total 
                                dissolved solids content and that are 
                                below the depth where carbon dioxide 
                                can exist in the formation as a 
                                supercritical fluid.
                                    ``(II) Clarification.--In this 
                                subparagraph, the term `deep saline 
                                formation' does not include oil and gas 
                                reservoirs.
                            ``(ii) Report.--In consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Energy, and, as appropriate, with 
                        the head of any other relevant Federal agency 
                        and relevant stakeholders, not later than 1 
                        year after the date of enactment of the USE IT 
                        Act, the Administrator shall prepare, submit to 
                        Congress, and make publicly available a report 
                        that includes--
                                    ``(I) a comprehensive 
                                identification of potential risks and 
                                benefits to project developers 
                                associated with increased storage of 
                                carbon dioxide captured from stationary 
                                sources in deep saline formations, 
                                using existing research;
                                    ``(II) recommendations, if any, for 
                                managing the potential risks identified 
                                under subclause (I), including 
                                potential risks unique to public land; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) recommendations, if any, 
                                for Federal legislation or other policy 
                                changes to mitigate any potential risks 
                                identified under subclause (I).
                    ``(E) Report on carbon dioxide nonregulatory 
                strategies and technologies.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not less frequently than 
                        once every 2 years, the Administrator shall 
                        submit to the Committee on Environment and 
                        Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on 
                        Energy and Commerce of the House of 
                        Representatives a report that describes--
                                    ``(I) the recipients of assistance 
                                under subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
                                    ``(II) a plan for supporting 
                                additional nonregulatory strategies and 
                                technologies that could significantly 
                                prevent carbon dioxide emissions or 
                                reduce carbon dioxide levels in the 
                                air, in conjunction with other Federal 
                                agencies.
                            ``(ii) Inclusions.--The plan submitted 
                        under clause (i) shall include--
                                    ``(I) a methodology for evaluating 
                                and ranking technologies based on the 
                                ability of the technologies to cost 
                                effectively reduce carbon dioxide 
                                emissions or carbon dioxide levels in 
                                the air; and
                                    ``(II) a description of any nonair-
                                related environmental or energy 
                                considerations regarding the 
                                technologies.
                    ``(F) GAO report.--The Comptroller General of the 
                United States shall submit to Congress a report that--
                            ``(i) identifies all Federal grant programs 
                        in which a purpose of a grant under the program 
                        is to perform research on carbon capture and 
                        utilization technologies, including direct air 
                        capture technologies; and
                            ``(ii) examines the extent to which the 
                        Federal grant programs identified pursuant to 
                        clause (i) overlap or are duplicative.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency 
(referred to in this section as the ``Administrator'') shall submit to 
Congress a report describing how funds appropriated to the 
Administrator during the 5 most recent fiscal years have been used to 
carry out section 103 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7403), including 
a description of--
            (1) the amount of funds used to carry out specific 
        provisions of that section; and
            (2) the practices used by the Administrator to 
        differentiate funding used to carry out that section, as 
        compared to funding used to carry out other provisions of law.
    (d) Inclusion of Carbon Capture Infrastructure Projects.--Section 
41001(6) of the FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 4370m(6)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``carbon capture,'' after ``manufacturing,'';
                    (B) in clause (i)(III), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); 
                and
                    (D) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
                            ``(ii) is covered by a programmatic plan or 
                        environmental review developed for the primary 
                        purpose of facilitating development of carbon 
                        dioxide pipelines; or''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Inclusion.--For purposes of subparagraph (A), 
                construction of infrastructure for carbon capture 
                includes construction of--
                            ``(i) any facility, technology, or system 
                        that captures, utilizes, or sequesters carbon 
                        dioxide emissions, including projects for 
                        direct air capture (as defined in paragraph 
                        (6)(B)(i) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air 
                        Act (42 U.S.C. 7403(g)); and
                            ``(ii) carbon dioxide pipelines.''.
    (e) Development of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Sequestration 
Report, Permitting Guidance, and Regional Permitting Task Force.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                projects.--The term ``carbon capture, utilization, and 
                sequestration projects'' includes projects for direct 
                air capture (as defined in paragraph (6)(B)(i) of 
                section 103(g) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
                7403(g))).
                    (B) Efficient, orderly, and responsible.--The term 
                ``efficient, orderly, and responsible'' means, with 
                respect to development or the permitting process for 
                carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration projects 
                and carbon dioxide pipelines, a process that is 
                completed in an expeditious manner while maintaining 
                environmental, health, and safety protections.
            (2) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Council 
                on Environmental Quality (referred to in this section 
                as the ``Chair''), in consultation with the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of the Interior, 
                the Executive Director of the Federal Permitting 
                Improvement Council, and the head of any other relevant 
                Federal agency (as determined by the President), shall 
                prepare a report that--
                            (i) compiles all existing relevant Federal 
                        permitting and review information and resources 
                        for project applicants, agencies, and other 
                        stakeholders interested in the deployment of 
                        carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, 
                        including--
                                    (I) the appropriate points of 
                                interaction with Federal agencies;
                                    (II) clarification of the 
                                permitting responsibilities and 
                                authorities among Federal agencies; and
                                    (III) best practices and templates 
                                for permitting;
                            (ii) inventories current or emerging 
                        activities that transform captured carbon 
                        dioxide into a product of commercial value, or 
                        as an input to products of commercial value;
                            (iii) inventories existing initiatives and 
                        recent publications that analyze or identify 
                        priority carbon dioxide pipelines needed to 
                        enable efficient, orderly, and responsible 
                        development of carbon capture, utilization, and 
                        sequestration projects at increased scale;
                            (iv) identifies gaps in the current Federal 
                        regulatory framework for the deployment of 
                        carbon capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines; and
                            (v) identifies Federal financing mechanisms 
                        available to project developers.
                    (B) Submission; publication.--The Chair shall--
                            (i) submit the report under subparagraph 
                        (A) to the Committee on Environment and Public 
                        Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy 
                        and Commerce of the House of Representatives; 
                        and
                            (ii) as soon as practicable, make the 
                        report publicly available.
            (3) Guidance.--
                    (A) In general.--After submission of the report 
                under paragraph (2)(B), but not later than 1 year after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall 
                submit guidance consistent with that report to all 
                relevant Federal agencies that--
                            (i) facilitates reviews associated with the 
                        deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and 
                        sequestration projects and carbon dioxide 
                        pipelines; and
                            (ii) supports the efficient, orderly, and 
                        responsible development of carbon capture, 
                        utilization, and sequestration projects and 
                        carbon dioxide pipelines.
                    (B) Requirements.--
                            (i) In general.--The guidance under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall address requirements 
                        under--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.);
                                    (II) the Federal Water Pollution 
                                Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
                                    (III) the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
                                7401 et seq.);
                                    (IV) the Safe Drinking Water Act 
                                (42 U.S.C. 300f et seq.);
                                    (V) the Endangered Species Act of 
                                1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
                                    (VI) division A of subtitle III of 
                                title 54, United States Code (formerly 
                                known as the ``National Historic 
                                Preservation Act'');
                                    (VII) the Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
                                (16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.);
                                    (VIII) the Act of June 8, 1940 (16 
                                U.S.C. 668 et seq.) (commonly known as 
                                the ``Bald and Golden Eagle Protection 
                                Act''); and
                                    (IX) any other Federal law that the 
                                Chair determines to be appropriate.
                            (ii) Environmental reviews.--The guidance 
                        under subparagraph (A) shall include direction 
                        to States and other interested parties for the 
                        development of programmatic environmental 
                        reviews under the National Environmental Policy 
                        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for carbon 
                        capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
                            (iii) Public involvement.--The guidance 
                        under subparagraph (A) shall be subject to the 
                        public notice, comment, and solicitation of 
                        information procedures under section 1506.6 of 
                        title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or a 
                        successor regulation).
                    (C) Submission; publication.--The Chair shall--
                            (i) submit the guidance under subparagraph 
                        (A) to the Committee on Environment and Public 
                        Works of the Senate and the Committee on Energy 
                        and Commerce of the House of Representatives; 
                        and
                            (ii) as soon as practicable, make the 
                        guidance publicly available.
                    (D) Evaluation.--The Chair shall--
                            (i) periodically evaluate the reports of 
                        the task forces under paragraph (4)(E) and, as 
                        necessary, revise the guidance under 
                        subparagraph (A); and
                            (ii) each year, submit to the Committee on 
                        Environment and Public Works of the Senate, the 
                        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House 
                        of Representatives, and relevant Federal 
                        agencies a report that describes any 
                        recommendations for legislation, rules, 
                        revisions to rules, or other policies that 
                        would address the issues identified by the task 
                        forces under paragraph (4)(E).
            (4) Task force.--
                    (A) Establishment.--Not later than 18 months after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall 
                establish not less than 2 task forces, which shall each 
                cover a different geographical area with differing 
                demographic, land use, or geological issues--
                            (i) to identify permitting and other 
                        challenges and successes that permitting 
                        authorities and project developers and 
                        operators face; and
                            (ii) to improve the performance of the 
                        permitting process and regional coordination 
                        for the purpose of promoting the efficient, 
                        orderly, and responsible development of carbon 
                        capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines.
                    (B) Members and selection.--
                            (i) In general.--The Chair shall--
                                    (I) develop criteria for the 
                                selection of members to each task 
                                force; and
                                    (II) select members for each task 
                                force in accordance with subclause (I) 
                                and clause (ii).
                            (ii) Members.--Each task force--
                                    (I) shall include not less than 1 
                                representative of each of--
                                            (aa) the Environmental 
                                        Protection Agency;
                                            (bb) the Department of 
                                        Energy;
                                            (cc) the Department of the 
                                        Interior;
                                            (dd) any other Federal 
                                        agency the Chair determines to 
                                        be appropriate;
                                            (ee) any State that 
                                        requests participation in the 
                                        geographical area covered by 
                                        the task force;
                                            (ff) developers or 
                                        operators of carbon capture, 
                                        utilization, and sequestration 
                                        projects or carbon dioxide 
                                        pipelines; and
                                            (gg) nongovernmental 
                                        membership organizations, the 
                                        primary mission of which 
                                        concerns protection of the 
                                        environment; and
                                    (II) at the request of a Tribal or 
                                local government, may include a 
                                representative of--
                                            (aa) not less than 1 local 
                                        government in the geographical 
                                        area covered by the task force; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) not less than 1 Tribal 
                                        government in the geographical 
                                        area covered by the task force.
                    (C) Meetings.--
                            (i) In general.--Each task force shall meet 
                        not less than twice each year.
                            (ii) Joint meeting.--To the maximum extent 
                        practicable, the task forces shall meet 
                        collectively not less than once each year.
                    (D) Duties.--Each task force shall--
                            (i) inventory existing or potential Federal 
                        and State approaches to facilitate reviews 
                        associated with the deployment of carbon 
                        capture, utilization, and sequestration 
                        projects and carbon dioxide pipelines, 
                        including best practices that--
                                    (I) avoid duplicative reviews;
                                    (II) engage stakeholders early in 
                                the permitting process; and
                                    (III) make the permitting process 
                                efficient, orderly, and responsible;
                            (ii) develop common models for State-level 
                        carbon dioxide pipeline regulation and 
                        oversight guidelines that can be shared with 
                        States in the geographical area covered by the 
                        task force;
                            (iii) provide technical assistance to 
                        States in the geographical area covered by the 
                        task force in implementing regulatory 
                        requirements and any models developed under 
                        clause (ii);
                            (iv) inventory current or emerging 
                        activities that transform captured carbon 
                        dioxide into a product of commercial value, or 
                        as an input to products of commercial value;
                            (v) identify any priority carbon dioxide 
                        pipelines needed to enable efficient, orderly, 
                        and responsible development of carbon capture, 
                        utilization, and sequestration projects at 
                        increased scale;
                            (vi) identify gaps in the current Federal 
                        and State regulatory framework and in existing 
                        data for the deployment of carbon capture, 
                        utilization, and sequestration projects and 
                        carbon dioxide pipelines;
                            (vii) identify Federal and State financing 
                        mechanisms available to project developers; and
                            (viii) develop recommendations for relevant 
                        Federal agencies on how to develop and research 
                        technologies that--
                                    (I) can capture carbon dioxide; and
                                    (II) would be able to be deployed 
                                within the region covered by the task 
                                force, including any projects that have 
                                received technical or financial 
                                assistance for research under paragraph 
                                (6) of section 103(g) of the Clean Air 
                                Act (42 U.S.C. 7403(g)).
                    (E) Report.--Each year, each task force shall 
                prepare and submit to the Chair and to the other task 
                forces a report that includes--
                            (i) any recommendations for improvements in 
                        efficient, orderly, and responsible issuance or 
                        administration of Federal permits and other 
                        Federal authorizations required under a law 
                        described in paragraph (3)(B)(i); and
                            (ii) any other nationally relevant 
                        information that the task force has collected 
                        in carrying out the duties under subparagraph 
                        (D).
                    (F) Evaluation.--Not later than 5 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Chair shall--
                            (i) reevaluate the need for the task 
                        forces; and
                            (ii) submit to Congress a recommendation as 
                        to whether the task forces should continue.

SEC. 6085. LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR VETERANS AND SURVIVING SPOUSES AND 
              DEPENDENTS.

    (a) Availability of Legal Assistance at Facilities of Department of 
Veterans Affairs.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 59 of title 38, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 5906. Availability of legal assistance at Department facilities
    ``(a) In General.--Not less frequently than three times each year, 
the Secretary shall facilitate the provision by a qualified legal 
assistance clinic of pro bono legal assistance described in subsection 
(c) to eligible individuals at not fewer than one medical center of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, or such other facility of the 
Department as the Secretary considers appropriate, in each State.
    ``(b) Eligible Individuals.--For purposes of this section, an 
eligible individual is--
            ``(1) any veteran;
            ``(2) any surviving spouse; or
            ``(3) any child of a veteran who has died.
    ``(c) Pro Bono Legal Assistance Described.--The pro bono legal 
assistance described in this subsection is the following:
            ``(1) Legal assistance with any program administered by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(2) Legal assistance associated with--
                    ``(A) improving the status of a military discharge 
                or characterization of service in the Armed Forces, 
                including through a discharge review board; or
                    ``(B) seeking a review of a military record before 
                a board of correction for military or naval records.
            ``(3) Such other legal assistance as the Secretary--
                    ``(A) considers appropriate; and
                    ``(B) determines may be needed by eligible 
                individuals.
    ``(d) Limitation on Use of Facilities.--Space in a medical center 
or facility designated under subsection (a) shall be reserved for and 
may only be used by the following, subject to review and removal from 
participation by the Secretary:
            ``(1) A veterans service organization or other nonprofit 
        organization.
            ``(2) A legal assistance clinic associated with an 
        accredited law school.
            ``(3) A legal services organization.
            ``(4) A bar association.
            ``(5) Such other attorneys and entities as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    ``(e) Legal Assistance in Rural Areas.--In carrying out this 
section, the Secretary shall ensure that pro bono legal assistance is 
provided under subsection (a) in rural areas.
    ``(f) Definition of Veterans Service Organization.--The term 
`veterans service organization' means any organization recognized by 
the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of 
this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 59 of such title is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``5906. Availability of legal assistance at Department facilities.''.
    (b) Pilot Program to Establish and Support Legal Assistance 
Clinics.--
            (1) Pilot program required.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs shall establish a pilot program to 
                assess the feasibility and advisability of awarding 
                grants to eligible entities to establish new legal 
                assistance clinics, or enhance existing legal 
                assistance clinics or other pro bono efforts, for the 
                provision of pro bono legal assistance described in 
                subsection (c) of section 5906 of title 38, United 
                States Code, as added by subsection (a), on a year-
                round basis to individuals who served in the Armed 
                Forces, including individuals who served in a reserve 
                component of the Armed Forces, and who were discharged 
                or released therefrom, regardless of the conditions of 
                such discharge or release, at locations other than 
                medical centers and facilities described in subsection 
                (a) of such section.
                    (B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in subparagraph 
                (A) shall be construed to limit or affect--
                            (i) the provision of pro bono legal 
                        assistance to eligible individuals at medical 
                        centers and facilities of the Department of 
                        Veterans Affairs under section 5906(a) of title 
                        38, United States Code, as added by subsection 
                        (a); or
                            (ii) any other legal assistance provided 
                        pro bono at medical centers or facilities of 
                        the Department as of the date of the enactment 
                        of this Act.
            (2) Eligible entities.--For purposes of the pilot program, 
        an eligible entity is--
                    (A) a veterans service organization or other 
                nonprofit organization specifically focused on 
                assisting veterans;
                    (B) an entity specifically focused on assisting 
                veterans and associated with an accredited law school;
                    (C) a legal services organization or bar 
                association; or
                    (D) such other type of entity as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate for purposes of the pilot 
                program.
            (3) Locations.--The Secretary shall ensure that at least 
        one grant is awarded under paragraph (1)(A) to at least one 
        eligible entity in each State, if the Secretary determines that 
        there is such an entity in a State that has applied for, and 
        meets requirements for the award of, such a grant.
            (4) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
        program during the five-year period beginning on the date on 
        which the Secretary establishes the pilot program.
            (5) Application.--An eligible entity seeking a grant under 
        the pilot program shall submit to the Secretary an application 
        therefore at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
        information as the Secretary may require.
            (6) Selection.--The Secretary shall select eligible 
        entities who submit applications under paragraph (5) for the 
        award of grants under the pilot program using a competitive 
        process that takes into account the following:
                    (A) Capacity of the applicant entity to serve 
                veterans and ability of the entity to provide sound 
                legal advice.
                    (B) Demonstrated need of the veteran population the 
                applicant entity would serve.
                    (C) Demonstrated need of the applicant entity for 
                assistance from the grants.
                    (D) Geographic diversity of applicant entities.
                    (E) Such other criteria as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (7) Grantee reports.--Each recipient of a grant under the 
        pilot program shall, in accordance with such criteria as the 
        Secretary may establish, submit to the Secretary a report on 
        the activities of the recipient and how the grant amounts were 
        used.
    (c) Review of Pro Bono Eligibility of Federal Workers.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, in consultation with 
        the Attorney General and the Director of the Office of 
        Government Ethics, conduct a review of the rules and 
        regulations governing the circumstances under which attorneys 
        employed by the Federal Government can provide pro bono legal 
        assistance.
            (2) Recommendations.--In conducting the review required by 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall develop recommendations for 
        such legislative or administrative action as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate to facilitate greater participation by 
        Federal employees in pro bono legal and other volunteer 
        services for veterans.
            (3) Submittal to congress.--Not later than one year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress--
                    (A) the findings of the Secretary with respect to 
                the review conducted under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) the recommendations developed by the Secretary 
                under paragraph (2).
    (d) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the status of the implementation of 
this section.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Veterans service organization.--The term ``veterans 
        service organization'' means any organization recognized by the 
        Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 
        of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 6086. SILVER STAR SERVICE BANNER DAY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Congress is committed to honoring the sacrifices of 
        wounded and ill members of the Armed Forces.
            (2) The Silver Star Service Banner recognizes the members 
        of the Armed Forces and veterans who were wounded or became ill 
        while serving in combat for the United States.
            (3) The sacrifices made by members of the Armed Forces and 
        veterans on behalf of the United States should never be 
        forgotten.
            (4) May 1 is an appropriate date to designate as ``Silver 
        Star Service Banner Day''.
    (b) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 1 of title 36, United States Code, 
        is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 146. Silver Star Service Banner Day
    ``(a) Designation.--May 1 is Silver Star Service Banner Day.
    ``(b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year 
a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe 
Silver Star Service Banner Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, 
and activities.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 1 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 145 the following:

``146. Silver Star Service Banner Day.''.

SEC. 6087. ESTABLISHED PROGRAM TO STIMULATE COMPETITIVE RESEARCH.

    Section 2203(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
13503(b)) is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(3) Established program to stimulate competitive 
        research.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Eligible jurisdiction.--The term 
                        `eligible jurisdiction' means a State that is 
                        determined to be eligible for a grant under 
                        this paragraph in accordance with subparagraph 
                        (D).
                            ``(ii) EPSCoR.--The term `EPSCoR' means the 
                        Established Program to Stimulate Competitive 
                        Research operated under subparagraph (B).
                            ``(iii) National laboratory.--The term 
                        `National Laboratory' has the meaning given the 
                        term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 
                        2005 (42 U.S.C. 15801).
                            ``(iv) State.--The term `State' means--
                                    ``(I) a State;
                                    ``(II) the District of Columbia;
                                    ``(III) the Commonwealth of Puerto 
                                Rico;
                                    ``(IV) Guam; and
                                    ``(V) the United States Virgin 
                                Islands.
                    ``(B) Program operation.--The Secretary shall 
                operate an Established Program to Stimulate Competitive 
                Research.
                    ``(C) Objectives.--The objectives of EPSCoR shall 
                be--
                            ``(i) to increase the number of researchers 
                        in eligible jurisdictions, especially at 
                        institutions of higher education, capable of 
                        performing nationally competitive science and 
                        engineering research in support of the mission 
                        of the Department of Energy in the areas of 
                        applied energy research, environmental 
                        management, and basic science;
                            ``(ii) to improve science and engineering 
                        research and education programs at institutions 
                        of higher education in eligible jurisdictions 
                        and enhance the capabilities of eligible 
                        jurisdictions to develop, plan, and execute 
                        research that is competitive, including through 
                        investing in research equipment and 
                        instrumentation; and
                            ``(iii) to increase the probability of 
                        long-term growth of competitive funding to 
                        eligible jurisdictions.
                    ``(D) Eligible jurisdictions.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary may 
                        establish criteria for determining whether a 
                        State is eligible for a grant under this 
                        paragraph.
                            ``(ii) Requirement.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (iii), in establishing criteria under 
                        clause (i), the Secretary shall ensure that a 
                        State is eligible for a grant under this 
                        paragraph if the State, as determined by the 
                        Secretary, is a State that--
                                    ``(I) historically has received 
                                relatively little Federal research and 
                                development funding; and
                                    ``(II) has demonstrated a 
                                commitment--
                                            ``(aa) to develop the 
                                        research bases in the State; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) to improve science 
                                        and engineering research and 
                                        education programs at 
                                        institutions of higher 
                                        education in the State.
                            ``(iii) Eligibility under nsf epscor.--At 
                        the election of the Secretary, or if the 
                        Secretary determines not to establish criteria 
                        under clause (i), a State is eligible for a 
                        grant under this paragraph if the State is 
                        eligible to receive funding under the 
                        Established Program to Stimulate Competitive 
                        Research of the National Science Foundation.
                    ``(E) Grants in areas of applied energy research, 
                environmental management, and basic science.--
                            ``(i) In general.--EPSCoR shall make grants 
                        to eligible jurisdictions to carry out and 
                        support applied energy research and research in 
                        all areas of environmental management and basic 
                        science sponsored by the Department of Energy, 
                        including--
                                    ``(I) energy efficiency, fossil 
                                energy, renewable energy, and other 
                                applied energy research;
                                    ``(II) electricity delivery 
                                research;
                                    ``(III) cybersecurity, energy 
                                security, and emergency response;
                                    ``(IV) environmental management; 
                                and
                                    ``(V) basic science research.
                            ``(ii) Activities.--EPSCoR shall make 
                        grants under this subparagraph for activities 
                        consistent with the objectives described in 
                        subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied energy 
                        research, environmental management, and basic 
                        science described in clause (i), including--
                                    ``(I) to support research that is 
                                carried out in partnership with the 
                                National Laboratories;
                                    ``(II) to provide for graduate 
                                traineeships;
                                    ``(III) to support research by 
                                early career faculty; and
                                    ``(IV) to improve research 
                                capabilities through biennial research 
                                implementation grants.
                            ``(iii) No cost sharing.--EPSCoR shall not 
                        impose any cost-sharing requirement with 
                        respect to a grant made under this 
                        subparagraph, but may require letters of 
                        commitment from National Laboratories.
                    ``(F) Other activities.--EPSCoR may carry out such 
                activities as may be necessary to meet the objectives 
                described in subparagraph (C) in the areas of applied 
                energy research, environmental management, and basic 
                science described in subparagraph (E)(i).
                    ``(G) Program implementation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 270 days 
                        after the date of enactment of the National 
                        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, 
                        the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
                        Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations 
                        of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and 
                        Commerce and Appropriations of the House of 
                        Representatives a plan describing how the 
                        Secretary shall implement EPSCoR.
                            ``(ii) Contents of plan.--The plan 
                        described in clause (i) shall include a 
                        description of--
                                    ``(I) the management structure of 
                                EPSCoR, which shall ensure that all 
                                research areas and activities described 
                                in this paragraph are incorporated into 
                                EPSCoR;
                                    ``(II) efforts to conduct outreach 
                                to inform eligible jurisdictions and 
                                faculty of changes to, and 
                                opportunities under, EPSCoR;
                                    ``(III) how EPSCoR plans to 
                                increase engagement with eligible 
                                jurisdictions, faculty, and State 
                                committees, including by holding 
                                regular workshops, to increase 
                                participation in EPSCoR; and
                                    ``(IV) any other issues relating to 
                                EPSCoR that the Secretary determines 
                                appropriate.
                    ``(H) Program evaluation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than 5 years 
                        after the date of enactment of the National 
                        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, 
                        the Secretary shall contract with a federally 
                        funded research and development center, the 
                        National Academy of Sciences, or a similar 
                        organization to carry out an assessment of the 
                        effectiveness of EPSCoR, including an 
                        assessment of--
                                    ``(I) the tangible progress made 
                                towards achieving the objectives 
                                described in subparagraph (C);
                                    ``(II) the impact of research 
                                supported by EPSCoR on the mission of 
                                the Department of Energy; and
                                    ``(III) any other issues relating 
                                to EPSCoR that the Secretary determines 
                                appropriate.
                            ``(ii) Limitation.--The organization with 
                        which the Secretary contracts under clause (i) 
                        shall not be a National Laboratory.
                            ``(iii) Report.--Not later than 6 years 
                        after the date of enactment of the National 
                        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, 
                        the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
                        Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations 
                        of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and 
                        Commerce and Appropriations of the House of 
                        Representatives a report describing the results 
                        of the assessment carried out under clause (i), 
                        including recommendations for improvements that 
                        would enable the Secretary to achieve the 
                        objectives described in subparagraph (C).''.

SEC. 6088. SUBPOENA AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 2209 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 659) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (7); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) the term `security vulnerability' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 102(17) of the Cybersecurity 
        Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501(17)); and'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (11), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) detecting, identifying, and receiving information 
        about security vulnerabilities relating to critical 
        infrastructure in the information systems and devices for a 
        cybersecurity purpose, as defined in section 102 of the 
        Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 
        1501).''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Subpoena Authority.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `covered 
        device or system'--
                    ``(A) means a device or system commonly used to 
                perform industrial, commercial, scientific, or 
                governmental functions or processes that relate to 
                critical infrastructure, including operational and 
                industrial control systems, distributed control 
                systems, and programmable logic controllers; and
                    ``(B) does not include personal devices and 
                systems, such as consumer mobile devices, home 
                computers, residential wireless routers, or residential 
                internet enabled consumer devices.
            ``(2) Authority.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the Director identifies a 
                system connected to the internet with a specific 
                security vulnerability and has reason to believe that 
                the security vulnerability relates to critical 
                infrastructure and affects a covered device or system, 
                and the Director is unable to identify the entity at 
                risk that owns or operates the covered device or 
                system, the Director may issue a subpoena for the 
                production of information necessary to identify and 
                notify the entity at risk, in order to carry out a 
                function authorized under subsection (c)(12).
                    ``(B) Limit on information.--A subpoena issued 
                under the authority under subparagraph (A) may seek 
                information--
                            ``(i) only in the categories set forth in 
                        subparagraphs (A), (B), (D), and (E) of section 
                        2703(c)(2) of title 18, United States Code; and
                            ``(ii) for not more than 20 covered devices 
                        or systems.
                    ``(C) Liability protections for disclosing 
                providers.--The provisions of section 2703(e) of title 
                18, United States Code, shall apply to any subpoena 
                issued under the authority under subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Coordination.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the Director decides to 
                exercise the subpoena authority under this subsection, 
                and in the interest of avoiding interference with 
                ongoing law enforcement investigations, the Director 
                shall coordinate the issuance of any such subpoena with 
                the Department of Justice, including the Federal Bureau 
                of Investigation, pursuant to inter-agency procedures 
                which the Director, in coordination with the Attorney 
                General, shall develop not later than 60 days after the 
                date of enactment of this subsection.
                    ``(B) Contents.--The inter-agency procedures 
                developed under this paragraph shall provide that a 
                subpoena issued by the Director under this subsection 
                shall be--
                            ``(i) issued in order to carry out a 
                        function described in subsection (c)(12); and
                            ``(ii) subject to the limitations under 
                        this subsection.
            ``(4) Noncompliance.--If any person, partnership, 
        corporation, association, or entity fails to comply with any 
        duly served subpoena issued under this subsection, the Director 
        may request that the Attorney General seek enforcement of the 
        subpoena in any judicial district in which such person, 
        partnership, corporation, association, or entity resides, is 
        found, or transacts business.
            ``(5) Notice.--Not later than 7 days after the date on 
        which the Director receives information obtained through a 
        subpoena issued under this subsection, the Director shall 
        notify any entity identified by information obtained under the 
        subpoena regarding the subpoena and the identified 
        vulnerability.
            ``(6) Authentication.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any subpoena issued by the 
                Director under this subsection shall be authenticated 
                with a cryptographic digital signature of an authorized 
                representative of the Agency, or other comparable 
                successor technology, that allows the Agency to 
                demonstrate that the subpoena was issued by the Agency 
                and has not been altered or modified since it was 
                issued by the Agency.
                    ``(B) Invalid if not authenticated.--Any subpoena 
                issued by the Director under this subsection that is 
                not authenticated in accordance with subparagraph (A) 
                shall not be considered to be valid by the recipient of 
                the subpoena.
            ``(7) Procedures.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this subsection, the Director shall establish 
        internal procedures and associated training, applicable to 
        employees and operations of the Agency, regarding subpoenas 
        issued under this subsection, which shall address--
                    ``(A) the protection of and restriction on 
                dissemination of nonpublic information obtained through 
                a subpoena issued under this subsection, including a 
                requirement that the Agency shall not disseminate 
                nonpublic information obtained through a subpoena 
                issued under this subsection that identifies the party 
                that is subject to the subpoena or the entity at risk 
                identified by information obtained, except that the 
                Agency may share the nonpublic information of the 
                entity at risk with another the Department of Justice 
                for the purpose of enforcing the subpoena in accordance 
                with paragraph (4) or with a Federal agency if--
                            ``(i) the Agency identifies or is notified 
                        of a cybersecurity incident involving the 
                        entity, which relates to the vulnerability 
                        which led to the issuance of the subpoena;
                            ``(ii) the Director determines that sharing 
                        the nonpublic information with another Federal 
                        agency is necessary to allow that Federal 
                        agency to take a law enforcement or national 
                        security action, subject to the interagency 
                        procedures under paragraph (3)(A), or actions 
                        related to mitigating or otherwise resolving 
                        such incident;
                            ``(iii) the entity to which the information 
                        pertains is notified of the Director's 
                        determination, to the extent practicable 
                        consistent with national security or law 
                        enforcement interests, subject to the 
                        interagency procedures under paragraph (3)(A); 
                        and
                            ``(iv) the entity consents, except that the 
                        entity's consent shall not be required if 
                        another Federal agency identifies the entity to 
                        the Agency in connection with a suspected 
                        cybersecurity incident;
                    ``(B) the restriction on the use of information 
                obtained through the subpoena for a cybersecurity 
                purpose, as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity 
                Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501);
                    ``(C) the retention and destruction of nonpublic 
                information obtained through a subpoena issued under 
                this subsection, including--
                            ``(i) destruction of information obtained 
                        through the subpoena that the Director 
                        determines is unrelated to critical 
                        infrastructure immediately upon providing 
                        notice to the entity pursuant to paragraph (5); 
                        and
                            ``(ii) destruction of any personally 
                        identifiable information not later than 6 
                        months after the date on which the Director 
                        receives information obtained through the 
                        subpoena, unless otherwise agreed to by the 
                        individual identified by the subpoena 
                        respondent;
                    ``(D) the processes for providing notice to each 
                party that is subject to the subpoena and each entity 
                identified by information obtained under a subpoena 
                issued under this subsection;
                    ``(E) the processes and criteria for conducting 
                critical infrastructure security risk assessments to 
                determine whether a subpoena is necessary prior to 
                being issued under this subsection; and
                    ``(F) the information to be provided to an entity 
                at risk at the time of the notice of the vulnerability, 
                which shall include--
                            ``(i) a discussion or statement that 
                        responding to, or subsequent engagement with, 
                        the Agency, is voluntary; and
                            ``(ii) to the extent practicable, 
                        information regarding the process through which 
                        the Director identifies security 
                        vulnerabilities.
            ``(8) Limitation on procedures.--The internal procedures 
        established under paragraph (7) may not require an owner or 
        operator of critical infrastructure to take any action as a 
        result of a notice of vulnerability made pursuant to this Act.
            ``(9) Review of procedures.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this subsection, the Privacy Officer 
        of the Agency shall--
                    ``(A) review the procedures developed by the 
                Director under paragraph (7) to ensure that--
                            ``(i) the procedures are consistent with 
                        fair information practices; and
                            ``(ii) the operations of the Agency comply 
                        with the procedures; and
                    ``(B) notify the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Homeland Security of the House of Representatives of 
                the results of the review.
            ``(10) Publication of information.--Not later than 120 days 
        after establishing the internal procedures under paragraph (7), 
        the Director shall publish information on the website of the 
        Agency regarding the subpoena process under this subsection, 
        including regarding--
                    ``(A) the purpose for subpoenas issued under this 
                subsection;
                    ``(B) the subpoena process;
                    ``(C) the criteria for the critical infrastructure 
                security risk assessment conducted prior to issuing a 
                subpoena;
                    ``(D) policies and procedures on retention and 
                sharing of data obtained by subpoena;
                    ``(E) guidelines on how entities contacted by the 
                Director may respond to notice of a subpoena; and
                    ``(F) the procedures and policies of the Agency 
                developed under paragraph (7).
            ``(11) Annual reports.--The Director shall annually submit 
        to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the 
        House of Representatives a report (which may include a 
        classified annex but with the presumption of declassification) 
        on the use of subpoenas under this subsection by the Director, 
        which shall include--
                    ``(A) a discussion of--
                            ``(i) the effectiveness of the use of 
                        subpoenas to mitigate critical infrastructure 
                        security vulnerabilities;
                            ``(ii) the critical infrastructure security 
                        risk assessment process conducted for subpoenas 
                        issued under this subsection;
                            ``(iii) the number of subpoenas issued 
                        under this subsection by the Director during 
                        the preceding year;
                            ``(iv) to the extent practicable, the 
                        number of vulnerable covered devices or systems 
                        mitigated under this subsection by the Agency 
                        during the preceding year; and
                            ``(v) the number of entities notified by 
                        the Director under this subsection, and their 
                        response, during the previous year; and
                    ``(B) for each subpoena issued under this 
                subsection--
                            ``(i) the source of the security 
                        vulnerability detected, identified, or received 
                        by the Director;
                            ``(ii) the steps taken to identify the 
                        entity at risk prior to issuing the subpoena; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) a description of the outcome of the 
                        subpoena, including discussion on the 
                        resolution or mitigation of the critical 
                        infrastructure security vulnerability.
            ``(12) Publication of the annual reports.--The Director 
        shall publish a version of the annual report required by 
        paragraph (11) on the website of the Agency, which shall, at a 
        minimum, include the findings described in clauses (iii), (iv) 
        and (v) of paragraph (11)(A).
            ``(13) Prohibition on use of information for unauthorized 
        purposes.--Any information obtained pursuant to a subpoena 
        issued under this subsection shall not be provided to any other 
        Federal agency for any purpose other than a cybersecurity 
        purpose, as defined in section 102 of the Cybersecurity 
        Information Sharing Act of 2015 (6 U.S.C. 1501) or for the 
        purpose of enforcing a subpoena under paragraph (4).''.
    (b) Rules of Construction.--
            (1) Prohibition on new regulatory authority.--Nothing in 
        this section or the amendments made by this section shall be 
        construed to grant the Secretary of Homeland Security (in this 
        subsection referred to as the ``Secretary''), or another 
        Federal agency, any authority to promulgate regulations or set 
        standards relating to the cybersecurity of private sector 
        critical infrastructure that was not in effect on the day 
        before the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Private entities.--Nothing in this section or the 
        amendments made by this section shall be construed to require 
        any private entity--
                    (A) toto request assistance from the Secretary; or
                    (B) that requested such assistance from the 
                Secretary to implement any measure or recommendation 
                suggested by the Secretary.

SEC. 6089. THAD COCHRAN HEADQUARTERS BUILDING.

    (a) In General.--The headquarters building of the Engineer Research 
and Development Center of the Corps of Engineers located at 3909 Halls 
Ferry Road in Vicksburg, Mississippi, shall be known and designated as 
the ``Thad Cochran Headquarters Building''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Thad 
Cochran Headquarters Building''.

SEC. 6090. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON HANDLING 
              BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OF DISABILITY-RELATED 
              BENEFITS CLAIMS BY VETERANS WITH TYPE 1 DIABETES WHO WERE 
              EXPOSED TO A HERBICIDE AGENT.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
Congress a report evaluating how the Department of Veterans Affairs has 
handled claims for disability-related benefits under laws administered 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of veterans with type 1 diabetes 
who have been exposed to a herbicide agent (as defined in section 
1116(a)(3) of title 38, United States Code).

SEC. 6091. SPECIAL RULES FOR CERTAIN MONTHLY WORKERS' COMPENSATION 
              PAYMENTS AND OTHER PAYMENTS FOR FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
              PERSONNEL UNDER CHIEF OF MISSION AUTHORITY.

    Section 901 of title IX of division J of the Further Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or other designated 
        heads of Federal agencies'' after ``The Secretary of State''; 
        and
            (2) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ``Department of 
        State'' and inserting ``Federal Government''.

                  Subtitle H--Industries of the Future

SEC. 6094A. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Industries of the Future Act of 
2020''.

SEC. 6094B. REPORT ON FEDERAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOCUSED ON 
              INDUSTRIES OF THE FUTURE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall submit to Congress a report on research and 
development investments, infrastructure, and workforce development 
investments of the Federal Government that enable continued United 
States leadership in industries of the future.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A definition, for purposes of this Act, of the term 
        ``industries of the future'' that includes emerging 
        technologies.
            (2) An assessment of the current baseline of investments in 
        civilian research and development investments of the Federal 
        Government in the industries of the future.
            (3) A plan to double such baseline investments in 
        artificial intelligence and quantum information science by 
        fiscal year 2022.
            (4) A detailed plan to increase investments described in 
        paragraph (2) in industries of the future to $10,000,000,000 
        per year by fiscal year 2025.
            (5) A plan to leverage investments described in paragraphs 
        (2), (3), and (4) in industries of the future to elicit 
        complimentary investments by non-Federal entities to the 
        greatest extent practicable.
            (6) Proposed legislation to implement such plans.

SEC. 6094C. INDUSTRIES OF THE FUTURE COORDINATION COUNCIL.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall establish or designate 
        a council to advise the Director of the Office of Science and 
        Technology Policy on matters relevant to the Director and the 
        industries of the future.
            (2) Designation.--The council established or designated 
        under paragraph (1) shall be known as the ``Industries of the 
        Future Coordination Council'' (in this section the 
        ``Council'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of members 
        from the Federal Government as follows:
                    (A) One member appointed by the Director.
                    (B) A chairperson of the Select Committee on 
                Artificial Intelligence of the National Science and 
                Technology Council.
                    (C) A chairperson of the Subcommittee on Advanced 
                Manufacturing of the National Science and Technology 
                Council.
                    (D) A chairperson of the Subcommittee on Quantum 
                Information Science of the National Science and 
                Technology Council.
                    (E) Such other members as the President considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Chairperson.--The member appointed to the Council under 
        paragraph (1)(A) shall serve as the chairperson of the Council.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the Council are as follows:
            (1) To provide the Director with advice on ways in which in 
        the Federal Government can ensure the United States continues 
        to lead the world in developing emerging technologies that 
        improve the quality of life of the people of the United States, 
        increase economic competitiveness of the United States, and 
        strengthen the national security of the United States, 
        including identification of the following:
                    (A) Investments required in fundamental research 
                and development, infrastructure, and workforce 
                development of the United States workers who will 
                support the industries of the future.
                    (B) Actions necessary to create and further develop 
                the workforce that will support the industries of the 
                future.
                    (C) Actions required to leverage the strength of 
                the research and development ecosystem of the United 
                States, which includes academia, industry, and 
                nonprofit organizations.
                    (D) Ways that the Federal Government can consider 
                leveraging existing partnerships and creating new 
                partnerships and other multisector collaborations to 
                advance the industries of the future.
            (2) To provide the Director with advice on matters relevant 
        to the report required by section 6092B.
    (d) Coordination.--The Council shall coordinate with and utilize 
relevant existing National Science and Technology Council committees to 
the maximum extent feasible in order to minimize duplication of effort.
    (e) Sunset.--The Council shall terminate on the date that is 6 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                         Subtitle I--READI Act

SEC. 6096. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Reliable Emergency Alert 
Distribution Improvement Act of 2020'' or ``READI Act''.

SEC. 6096A. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle--
            (1) the term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
            (2) the term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Communications Commission;
            (3) the term ``Emergency Alert System'' means the national 
        public warning system, the rules for which are set forth in 
        part 11 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
        successor regulation); and
            (4) the term ``Wireless Emergency Alerts System'' means the 
        wireless national public warning system established under the 
        Warning, Alert, and Response Network Act (47 U.S.C. 1201 et 
        seq.), the rules for which are set forth in part 10 of title 
        47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation).

SEC. 6096B. WIRELESS EMERGENCY ALERTS SYSTEM OFFERINGS.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 602(b)(2)(E) of the Warning, Alert, and 
Response Network Act (47 U.S.C. 1201(b)(2)(E)) is amended--
            (1) by striking the second and third sentences; and
            (2) by striking ``other than an alert issued by the 
        President.'' and inserting the following: ``other than an alert 
        issued by--
                            ``(i) the President; or
                            ``(ii) the Administrator of the Federal 
                        Emergency Management Agency.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the 
Administrator, shall adopt regulations to implement the amendment made 
by subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 6096C. STATE EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM PLANS AND EMERGENCY 
              COMMUNICATIONS COMMITTEES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``SECC'' means a State Emergency 
        Communications Committee;
            (2) the term ``State'' means any State of the United 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
        the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any 
        possession of the United States; and
            (3) the term ``State EAS Plan'' means a State Emergency 
        Alert System Plan.
    (b) State Emergency Communications Committee.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall 
adopt regulations that--
            (1) encourage the chief executive of each State--
                    (A) to establish an SECC if the State does not have 
                an SECC; or
                    (B) if the State has an SECC, to review the 
                composition and governance of the SECC;
            (2) provide that--
                    (A) each SECC, not less frequently than annually, 
                shall--
                            (i) meet to review and update its State EAS 
                        Plan;
                            (ii) certify to the Commission that the 
                        SECC has met as required under clause (i); and
                            (iii) submit to the Commission an updated 
                        State EAS Plan; and
                    (B) not later than 60 days after the date on which 
                the Commission receives an updated State EAS Plan under 
                subparagraph (A)(iii), the Commission shall--
                            (i) approve or disapprove the updated State 
                        EAS Plan; and
                            (ii) notify the chief executive of the 
                        State of the Commission's findings; and
            (3) establish a State EAS Plan content checklist for SECCs 
        to use when reviewing and updating a State EAS Plan for 
        submission to the Commission under paragraph (2)(A).
    (c) Consultation.--The Commission shall consult with the 
Administrator regarding the adoption of regulations under subsection 
(b)(3).

SEC. 6096D. INTEGRATED PUBLIC ALERT AND WARNING SYSTEM GUIDANCE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall develop and issue guidance on how 
State, Tribal, and local governments can participate in the integrated 
public alert and warning system of the United States described in 
section 526 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 321o) 
(referred to in this section as the ``public alert and warning 
system'') while maintaining the integrity of the public alert and 
warning system, including--
            (1) guidance on the categories of public emergencies and 
        appropriate circumstances that warrant an alert and warning 
        from State, Tribal, and local governments using the public 
        alert and warning system;
            (2) the procedures for State, Tribal, and local government 
        officials to authenticate civil emergencies and initiate, 
        modify, and cancel alerts transmitted through the public alert 
        and warning system, including protocols and technology 
        capabilities for--
                    (A) the initiation, or prohibition on the 
                initiation, of alerts by a single authorized or 
                unauthorized individual;
                    (B) testing a State, Tribal, or local government 
                incident management and warning tool without 
                accidentally initiating an alert through the public 
                alert and warning system; and
                    (C) steps a State, Tribal, or local government 
                official should take to mitigate the possibility of the 
                issuance of a false alert through the public alert and 
                warning system;
            (3) the standardization, functionality, and 
        interoperability of incident management and warning tools used 
        by State, Tribal, and local governments to notify the public of 
        an emergency through the public alert and warning system;
            (4) the annual training and recertification of emergency 
        management personnel on requirements for originating and 
        transmitting an alert through the public alert and warning 
        system;
            (5) the procedures, protocols, and guidance concerning the 
        protective action plans that State, Tribal, and local 
        governments should issue to the public following an alert 
        issued under the public alert and warning system;
            (6) the procedures, protocols, and guidance concerning the 
        communications that State, Tribal, and local governments should 
        issue to the public following a false alert issued under the 
        public alert and warning system;
            (7) a plan by which State, Tribal, and local government 
        officials may, during an emergency, contact each other as well 
        as Federal officials and participants in the Emergency Alert 
        System and the Wireless Emergency Alerts System, when 
        appropriate and necessary, by telephone, text message, or other 
        means of communication regarding an alert that has been 
        distributed to the public; and
            (8) any other procedure the Administrator considers 
        appropriate for maintaining the integrity of and providing for 
        public confidence in the public alert and warning system.
    (b) Coordination With National Advisory Council Report.--The 
Administrator shall ensure that the guidance developed under subsection 
(a) does not conflict with recommendations made for improving the 
public alert and warning system provided in the report submitted by the 
National Advisory Council under section 2(b)(7)(B) of the Integrated 
Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2015 (Public Law 
114-143; 130 Stat. 332).
    (c) Public Consultation.--In developing the guidance under 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall ensure appropriate public 
consultation and, to the extent practicable, coordinate the development 
of the guidance with stakeholders of the public alert and warning 
system, including--
            (1) appropriate personnel from Federal agencies, including 
        the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, and the Commission;
            (2) representatives of State and local governments and 
        emergency services personnel, who shall be selected from among 
        individuals nominated by national organizations representing 
        those governments and personnel;
            (3) representatives of federally recognized Indian Tribes 
        and national Indian organizations;
            (4) communications service providers;
            (5) vendors, developers, and manufacturers of systems, 
        facilities, equipment, and capabilities for the provision of 
        communications services;
            (6) third-party service bureaus;
            (7) the national organization representing the licensees 
        and permittees of noncommercial broadcast television stations;
            (8) technical experts from the broadcasting industry, 
        including representatives of both the non-commercial and 
        commercial radio broadcast industries and non-commercial and 
        commercial television broadcast industries;
            (9) educators from the Emergency Management Institute; and
            (10) other individuals with technical expertise as the 
        Administrator determines appropriate.
    (d) Inapplicability of FACA.--The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 
U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the public consultation with 
stakeholders under subsection (c).
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall be 
construed to amend, supplement, or abridge the authority of the 
Commission under the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) 
or in any other manner give the Administrator authority over 
communications service providers participating in the Emergency Alert 
System or the Wireless Emergency Alerts System.

SEC. 6096E. FALSE ALERT REPORTING.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Commission, in consultation with the Administrator, shall complete 
a rulemaking proceeding to establish a system to receive from the 
Administrator or State, Tribal, or local governments reports of false 
alerts under the Emergency Alert System or the Wireless Emergency 
Alerts System for the purpose of recording such false alerts and 
examining their causes.

SEC. 6096F. REPEATING EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM MESSAGES FOR NATIONAL 
              SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission, in consultation with the 
Administrator, shall complete a rulemaking proceeding to modify the 
Emergency Alert System to provide for repeating Emergency Alert System 
messages while an alert remains pending that is issued by--
            (1) the President;
            (2) the Administrator; or
            (3) any other entity under specified circumstances as 
        determined by the Commission, in consultation with the 
        Administrator.
    (b) Scope of Rulemaking.--Subsection (a)--
            (1) shall apply to warnings of national security events, 
        meaning emergencies of national significance, such as a missile 
        threat, terror attack, or other act of war; and
            (2) shall not apply to more typical warnings, such as a 
        weather alert, AMBER Alert, or disaster alert.

SEC. 6096G. INTERNET AND ONLINE STREAMING SERVICES EMERGENCY ALERT 
              EXAMINATION.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and after providing public notice and opportunity for 
comment, the Commission shall complete an inquiry to examine the 
feasibility of updating the Emergency Alert System to enable or improve 
alerts to consumers provided through the internet, including through 
streaming services.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after completing the inquiry 
under subsection (a), the Commission shall submit a report on the 
findings and conclusions of the inquiry to--
            (1) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives.

            TITLE LXII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 6211. CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF UNITED STATES TALKS WITH TALIBAN 
              OFFICIALS AND AFGHANISTAN'S COMPREHENSIVE PEACE PROCESS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, and the Select Committee 
                on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Armed Services, and the Permanent Select Committee 
                on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Government of afghanistan.--The term ``Government of 
        Afghanistan'' means the Government of the Islamic Republic of 
        Afghanistan and its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled 
        entities.
            (3) The taliban.--The term ``the Taliban''--
                    (A) refers to the organization that refers to 
                itself as the ``Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan'', that 
                was founded by Mohammed Omar, and that is currently led 
                by Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada; and
                    (B) includes subordinate organizations, such as the 
                Haqqani Network, and any successor organization.
            (4) February 29 agreement.--The term ``February 29 
        Agreement'' refers to the political arrangement between the 
        United States and the Taliban titled ``Agreement for Bringing 
        Peace to Afghanistan Between the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan 
        which is not recognized by the United States as a state and is 
        known as the Taliban and the United States of America'' signed 
        at Doha, Qatar February 29, 2020.
    (b) Oversight of Peace Process and Other Agreements.--
            (1) Transmission to congress of materials relevant to the 
        february 29 agreement.--The Secretary of State, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Defense, shall continue to submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees materials relevant to the 
        February 29 Agreement.
            (2) Submission to congress of any future deals involving 
        the taliban.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees, within 5 days of 
        conclusion and on an ongoing basis thereafter, any future 
        agreement or arrangement involving the Taliban in any manner, 
        as well as materials relevant to any future agreement or 
        arrangement involving the Taliban in any manner.
            (3) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms ``materials 
        relevant to the February 29 Agreement'' and ``materials 
        relevant to any future agreement or arrangement'' include all 
        annexes, appendices, and instruments for implementation of the 
        February 29 Agreement or a future agreement or arrangement, as 
        well as any understandings or expectations related to the 
        Agreement or a future agreement or arrangement.
    (c) Report and Briefing on Verification and Compliance.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
                of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently 
                than once every 120 days thereafter, the President 
                shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
                committees a report verifying whether the key tenets of 
                the February 29 Agreement, or future agreements, and 
                accompanying implementing frameworks are being 
                preserved and honored.
                    (B) Briefing.--At the time of each report submitted 
                under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of State shall 
                direct a Senate-confirmed Department of State official 
                and other appropriate officials to brief the 
                appropriate congressional committees on the contents of 
                the report. The Director of National Intelligence shall 
                also direct an appropriate official to participate in 
                the briefing.
            (2) Elements.--The report and briefing required under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) an assessment--
                            (i) of the Taliban's compliance with 
                        counterterrorism guarantees, including 
                        guarantees to deny safe haven and freedom of 
                        movement to al-Qaeda and other terrorist 
                        threats from operating on territory under its 
                        influence; and
                            (ii) whether the United States intelligence 
                        community has collected any intelligence 
                        indicating the Taliban does not intend to 
                        uphold its commitments;
                    (B) an assessment of Taliban actions against 
                terrorist threats to United States national security 
                interests;
                    (C) an assessment of whether Taliban officials have 
                made a complete, transparent, public, and verifiable 
                breaking of all ties with al-Qaeda;
                    (D) an assessment of the current relationship 
                between the Taliban and al-Qaeda, including any 
                interactions between members of the two groups in 
                Afghanistan, Pakistan, or other countries, and any 
                change in Taliban conduct towards al-Qaeda since 
                February 29, 2020;
                    (E) an assessment of the relationship between the 
                Taliban and any other terrorist group that is assessed 
                to threaten the security of the United States or its 
                allies, including any change in conduct since February 
                29, 2020;
                    (F) an assessment of whether the Haqqani Network 
                has broken ties with al-Qaeda, and whether the Haqqani 
                Network's leader Sirajuddin Haqqani remains part of the 
                leadership structure of the Taliban;
                    (G) an assessment of threats emanating from 
                Afghanistan against the United States homeland and 
                United States partners, and a description of how the 
                United States Government is responding to those 
                threats;
                    (H) an assessment of intra-Afghan discussions, 
                political reconciliation, and progress towards a 
                political roadmap that seeks to serve all Afghans;
                    (I) an assessment of the viability of any intra-
                Afghan governing agreement;
                    (J) an assessment as to whether the terms of any 
                reduction in violence or ceasefire are being met by all 
                sides in the conflict;
                    (K) a detailed overview of any United States and 
                NATO presence remaining in Afghanistan and any planned 
                changes to such force posture;
                    (L) an assessment of the status of human rights, 
                including the rights of women, minorities, and youth;
                    (M) an assessment of the access of women, 
                minorities, and youth to education, justice, and 
                economic opportunities in Afghanistan;
                    (N) an assessment of the status of the rule of law 
                and governance structures at the central, provincial, 
                and district levels of government;
                    (O) an assessment of the media and of the press and 
                civil society's operating space in Afghanistan;
                    (P) an assessment of illicit narcotics production 
                in Afghanistan, its linkages to terrorism, corruption, 
                and instability, and policies to counter illicit 
                narcotics flows;
                    (Q) an assessment of corruption in Government of 
                Afghanistan institutions at the district, provincial, 
                and central levels of government;
                    (R) an assessment of the number of Taliban and 
                Afghan prisoners and any plans for the release of such 
                prisoners from either side;
                    (S) an assessment of any malign Iranian, Chinese, 
                and Russian influence in Afghanistan;
                    (T) an assessment of how other regional actors, 
                such as Pakistan, are engaging with Afghanistan;
                    (U) a detailed overview of national-level efforts 
                to promote transitional justice, including forensic 
                efforts and documentation of war crimes, mass killings, 
                or crimes against humanity, redress to victims, and 
                reconciliation activities;
                    (V) A detailed overview of United States support 
                for Government of Afghanistan and civil society efforts 
                to promote peace and justice at the local level and how 
                these efforts are informing government-level policies 
                and negotiations;
                    (W) an assessment of the progress made by the 
                Afghanistan Ministry of Interior and the Office of the 
                Attorney General to address gross violations of human 
                rights (GVHRs) by civilian security forces, Taliban, 
                and non-government armed groups, including--
                            (i) a breakdown of resources provided by 
                        the Government of Afghanistan towards these 
                        efforts; and
                            (ii) a summary of assistance provided by 
                        the United States Government to support these 
                        efforts; and
                    (X) an overview of civilian casualties caused by 
                the Taliban, non-government armed groups, and Afghan 
                National Defense and Security Forces, including--
                            (i) an estimate of the number of destroyed 
                        or severely damaged civilian structures;
                            (ii) a description of steps taken by the 
                        Government of Afghanistan to minimize civilian 
                        casualties and other harm to civilians and 
                        civilian infrastructure;
                            (iii) an assessment of the Government of 
                        Afghanistan's capacity and mechanisms for 
                        investigating reports of civilian casualties; 
                        and
                            (iv) an assessment of the Government of 
                        Afghanistan's efforts to hold local militias 
                        accountable for civilian casualties.
            (3) Counterterrorism strategy.--In the event that the 
        Taliban does not meet its counterterrorism obligations under 
        the February 29 Agreement, the report and briefing required 
        under this subsection shall include information detailing the 
        United States' counterterrorism strategy in Afghanistan and 
        Pakistan.
            (4) Form.--The report required under subparagraph (A) of 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
        include a classified annex, and the briefing required under 
        subparagraph (B) of such paragraph shall be conducted at the 
        appropriate classification level.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall prejudice 
whether a future deal involving the Taliban in any manner constitutes a 
treaty for purposes of Article II of the Constitution of the United 
States.
    (e) Sunset.--Except for subsections (b) and (d), the provisions of 
this section shall cease to be effective on the date that is 5 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

   Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Europe and the Russian Federation

SEC. 6231. CLARIFICATION AND EXPANSION OF SANCTIONS RELATING TO 
              CONSTRUCTION OF NORD STREAM 2 OR TURKSTREAM PIPELINE 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 7503 of the 
Protecting Europe's Energy Security Act of 2019 (title LXXV of Public 
Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or pipe-laying 
        activities'' after ``pipe-laying''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in clause (i)--
                            (i) by inserting ``, or facilitated 
                        selling, leasing, or providing,'' after 
                        ``provided''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
                        semicolon;
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) provided underwriting services or 
                        insurance or reinsurance for those vessels;
                            ``(iv) provided services or facilities for 
                        technology upgrades or installation of welding 
                        equipment for, or retrofitting or tethering of, 
                        those vessels; or
                            ``(v) provided services for the testing, 
                        inspection, or certification necessary for, or 
                        associated with the operation of, the Nord 
                        Stream 2 pipeline.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Subsection (i) of such section is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
            ``(5) Pipe-laying activities.--The term `pipe-laying 
        activities' means activities that facilitate pipe-laying, 
        including site preparation, trenching, surveying, placing 
        rocks, backfilling, stringing, bending, welding, coating, and 
        lowering of pipe.''.

SEC. 6235. SENSE OF SENATE ON ADMISSION OF UKRAINE TO THE NORTH 
              ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION ENHANCED OPPORTUNITIES 
              PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.

    (a) Ineffectiveness of Section 1235.--Section 1235 shall have no 
force or effect.
    (b) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On August 24, 1991, Ukraine became a free and 
        independent country after declaring its independence from the 
        Soviet Union.
            (2) The Russian Federation is required to respect the 
        independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine 
        through its signed commitments to the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, 
        the 1975 Helsinki Accords, and the Charter of the United 
        Nations.
            (3) On February 8, 1994, Ukraine was among the first post-
        Soviet states to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's 
        Partnership for Peace, and Ukraine subsequently participated in 
        numerous North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led security 
        assistance, peacekeeping, counterterror, and maritime 
        initiatives.
            (4) The North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Ukraine have 
        continuously deepened their cooperation through the 
        establishment of--
                    (A) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine 
                Charter on a Distinctive Partnership and the North 
                Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine Commission in 
                1997;
                    (B) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine 
                Joint Working Group on Defense Reform in 1998; and
                    (C) the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-Ukraine 
                Action Plan in 2002.
            (5) In the Bucharest Summit Declaration of April 2008, 
        heads of state and governments of North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization member countries declared, ``NATO welcomes 
        Ukraine's and Georgia's Euro-Atlantic aspirations for 
        membership in NATO. We agreed today that these countries will 
        become members of NATO.''.
            (6) Beginning on November 21, 2013, and ending on February 
        22, 2014, during a period that became known as the Revolution 
        of Dignity, the people of Ukraine peacefully protested the 
        decision of then President Viktor Yanukovych to suspend the 
        signing of the Ukraine-European Union Association Agreement, 
        resulting in the unanimous removal from office of Yanukovych by 
        the Verkhovna Rada.
            (7) On May 25, 2014, Peter Poroshenko was elected 
        democratically to become the President of Ukraine based on a 
        pro-European Union and pro-North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        platform, which laid the foundation for progress on the 
        European Union Association Agreement.
            (8) In response to Ukraine's Revolution of Dignity, the 
        Russian Federation launched an overt and covert military 
        campaign against Ukraine, illegally occupied Ukraine's Crimean 
        Peninsula, and instigated war in eastern Ukraine, resulting in 
        the deaths of approximately 14,000 Ukrainians.
            (9) The Russian Federation's invasion and illegal 
        occupation of the Crimean Peninsula and instigation of conflict 
        in eastern Ukraine in 2014 was widely viewed as an effort to 
        stifle pro-democracy and pro-Western developments across 
        Ukraine in the wake of the Revolution of Dignity.
            (10) At the 2014 Wales Summit, the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization adopted the Enhanced Opportunities Partnership 
        Program as a component of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization Partnership Interoperability Initiative, which 
        would ``encourage, facilitate, and sustain'' Ukraine's 
        contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
            (11) In 2016, as a result of the Warsaw Summit, the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization pledged additional training and 
        technical support for the military forces of Ukraine and 
        endorsed a comprehensive assistance package that included 
        ``tailored capability and capacity building measures . . . to 
        enhance Ukraine's resilience against a wide array of threats, 
        including hybrid threats''.
            (12) In 2017, in the face of continued Russian Federation 
        aggression in the eastern region of Ukraine and the continued 
        occupation of Crimea, the Government of Ukraine rejected 
        cooperation with the Russian Federation and voted to make 
        cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization a 
        foreign policy priority.
            (13) On September 1, 2017, the Ukraine-European Union 
        Association Agreement entered into force.
            (14) On April 21, 2019, the new president of Ukraine, 
        Volodymyr Zelenskyy--
                    (A) reaffirmed to European Union and North Atlantic 
                Treaty Organization leaders that Ukraine's strategic 
                course was to achieve full membership in the European 
                Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
                    (B) championed the adoption of an amendment to the 
                Constitution of Ukraine declaring that the Government 
                of Ukraine is responsible for implementing such 
                strategic course toward membership in the European 
                Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
            (15) In January 2020, the Government of Ukraine requested 
        that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization grant Ukraine the 
        status of an Enhanced Opportunities Partner.
            (16) Since Ukraine's Revolution of Dignity and in 
        recognition of the United States-Ukraine strategic partnership, 
        the United States has--
                    (A) provided Ukraine with more than $1,600,000,000 
                in security assistance, including critical defense 
                items;
                    (B) collaborated closely with the military forces 
                of Ukraine; and
                    (C) imposed strong sanctions on the Russian 
                Federation in response to continued Russian Federation 
                aggression in Ukraine.
            (17) On June 12, 2020, the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization welcomed Ukraine into the Enhanced Opportunities 
        Partnership program, joining Australia, Finland, Sweden, 
        Georgia, and Jordan.
    (c) Sense of Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that the 
Senate--
            (1) applauds the progress of Ukraine and the Revolution of 
        Dignity with respect to strengthening the rule of law and 
        combating corruption, aligning with Euro-Atlantic norms and 
        standards, and improving Ukraine's military combat readiness 
        and interoperability with the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization;
            (2) affirms the unwavering commitment of the United States 
        to--
                    (A) supporting the continued efforts of Ukraine to 
                implement democratic and free market reforms;
                    (B) restoring the territorial integrity of Ukraine; 
                and
                    (C) providing additional lethal and nonlethal 
                security assistance to strengthen the defense 
                capabilities of Ukraine and to deter further Russian 
                Federation aggression;
            (3) condemns the Russian Federation's ongoing use of force 
        and other malign activities against Ukraine and renews its call 
        on the Government of the Russian Federation to immediately 
        cease all activities that seek to undermine Ukraine and 
        destabilize Europe; and
            (4) congratulates Ukraine on its inclusion in the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization Enhanced Opportunities Partnership 
        program and on the establishment of a roadmap to full NATO 
        accession for Ukraine.

        Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Indo-Pacific Region

SEC. 6251. PILOT PROGRAM TO IMPROVE CYBER COOPERATION WITH VIETNAM, 
              THAILAND, AND INDONESIA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of State, may establish a pilot program in Vietnam, Thailand, 
and Indonesia--
            (1) to enhance the cyber security, resilience, and 
        readiness of Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia; and
            (2) to increase regional cooperation between the United 
        States and Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia on cyber issues.
    (b) Elements.--The activities of the pilot program under subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
            (1) Provision of training to cybersecurity and computer 
        science professionals in Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
            (2) An expansion of the capacity of organizations involved 
        in the training of such cybersecurity and computer science 
        professionals.
            (3) The facilitation of regular policy dialogues between 
        and among the United States Government and the governments of 
        Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia with respect to the 
        development of infrastructure to protect against cyber attacks.
            (4) An evaluation of legal and other barriers to reforms 
        relevant to cybersecurity and technology in Vietnam, Thailand, 
        and Indonesia.
            (5) A feasibility study on establishing a public-private 
        partnership to build cloud-computing capacity in Vietnam, 
        Thailand, and Indonesia and in Southeast Asia more broadly.
            (6) The development of cooperative exercises, to be carried 
        out in future years, to enhance collaboration between the 
        United States Government and the governments of Vietnam, 
        Thailand, and Indonesia.
    (c) Funding.--The Secretary of Defense may enter into cooperative 
agreements with entities that receive funds under section 211 of the 
Vietnam Education Foundation Act of 2000 (title II of division B of 
H.R. 5666, as enacted by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106-554 and 
contained in appendix D of that Act; 114 Stat. 2763A-254; 22 U.S.C. 
2452 note), as added by section 7085 of the Consolidated and Further 
Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235; 128 Stat. 2685), to carry 
out the pilot program under subsection (a).
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Design of pilot program.--Not later than June 1, 2021, 
        the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on the design of the pilot program under subsection (a).
            (2) Progress report.--Not later than December 31, 2021, the 
        Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        State, shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on the pilot program under subsection (a) that 
        includes--
                    (A) a description of the activities conducted and 
                the results of such activities; and
                    (B) an assessment of legal and other barriers to 
                reforms relevant to cybersecurity and technology in 
                Vietnam, Thailand, and Indonesia.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2021 to carry out this section.
    (f) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
for operation and maintenance, Navy, and available for SAG 1CCS for 
military information support operations, is hereby reduced by 
$5,000,000.
    (g) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

                          Subtitle F--Reports

SEC. 6273. REPORT ON RISK TO PERSONNEL, EQUIPMENT, AND OPERATIONS DUE 
              TO HUAWEI 5G ARCHITECTURE IN HOST COUNTRIES.

    Section 1273 shall have no force or effect.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 6281. COMPARATIVE STUDIES ON DEFENSE BUDGET TRANSPARENCY OF THE 
              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA, THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION, AND 
              THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Studies Required.--
            (1) Department of defense study.--Not later than 270 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Defense, acting through the Director of the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency, in consultation with the Under Secretary 
        of Defense (Comptroller), the Director of the Office of Cost 
        Assessment and Program Evaluation, the Director of the Office 
        of Net Assessment, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Indo-
        Pacific Security Affairs, and the Assistant Secretary of 
        Defense for International Security Affairs, shall complete a 
        comparative study on the defense budgets of the People's 
        Republic of China, the Russian Federation, and the United 
        States.
            (2) Independent study.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Defense shall offer to enter into an agreement with not 
                more than two entities independent of the Department to 
                conduct a comparative study on the defense budgets of 
                the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, 
                and the United States, to be completed not later than 
                270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Federally funded research and development 
                center.--Not fewer than one entity described in 
                subparagraph (A) shall be a federally funded research 
                and development center.
    (b) Goal.--The goal of the studies required by subsection (a) shall 
be to develop a methodologically sound set of assumptions to underpin a 
comparison of the defense spending of the People's Republic of China, 
the Russian Federation, and the United States.
    (c) Elements.--Each study required by subsection (a) shall do the 
following:
            (1) Develop consistent functional categories for spending, 
        including--
                    (A) defense-related research and development;
                    (B) weapons procurement;
                    (C) operations and maintenance; and
                    (D) pay and benefits.
            (2) Consider the effects of purchasing power parity and 
        market exchange rates, particularly on nontraded goods.
            (3) Consider differences in the relative prices of goods 
        and labor within each subject country.
            (4) Compare the costs of labor and benefits for the defense 
        workforce of each subject country.
            (5) Account for discrepancies in the manner in which each 
        subject country accounts for certain functional types of 
        defense-related spending.
            (6) Explicitly estimate the magnitude of omitted spending 
        from official defense budget information.
            (7) Evaluate the adequacy of the United Nations database on 
        military expenditures.
            (8) Exclude spending related to veterans' benefits.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
studies required by subsection (a) are completed, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report on the results of each study, 
together with the views of the Secretary on each study.
    (e) Form.--The report required by subsection (d) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 6282. MODIFICATION TO INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION OF NATIONAL 
              SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM UNDUE INFLUENCE AND 
              OTHER SECURITY THREATS.

    Section 1286 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by adding after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Designation of Academic Liaison.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2021, the Secretary, acting through the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall 
        designate an academic liaison with principal responsibility for 
        working with the academic community to protect Department-
        sponsored academic research of concern from undue foreign 
        influence.
            ``(2) Qualification.--The Secretary shall designate an 
        individual under paragraph (1) who is an official of the Office 
        of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
            ``(3) Duties.--The duties of the academic liaison 
        designated under paragraph (1) shall be as follows:
                    ``(A) To serve as the liaison of the Department 
                with the academic community.
                    ``(B) To conduct annual outreach and education 
                activities for the academic community on undue foreign 
                influence and threats to Department-sponsored academic 
                research of concern.
                    ``(C) To coordinate and align academic security 
                policies with Department component agencies, the Office 
                of Science and Technology Policy, the intelligence 
                community, Federal science agencies, and Federal 
                regulatory agencies, including agencies involved in 
                export controls.
                    ``(D) To the extent practicable, to coordinate on 
                an annual basis with the intelligence community to 
                share, not less frequently than annually, with the 
                academic community unclassified information, including 
                counterintelligence information, on threats from undue 
                foreign influence.
                    ``(E) Any other related responsibility, as 
                determined by the Secretary in consultation with the 
                Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
                Engineering.
                    ``(F) Any other duty, as determined by the 
                Secretary.''.

SEC. 6283. SENSE OF SENATE ON UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION ON 
              PRECISION-GUIDED MUNITIONS.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the Department of Defense has cooperated extensively 
        with Israel to assist in the procurement of precision-guided 
        munitions, and such cooperation represents an important example 
        of robust United States support for Israel;
            (2) to the extent practicable, the Secretary of Defense 
        should take further measures to expedite deliveries of 
        precision-guided munitions to Israel; and
            (3) regularized annual purchases of precision-guided 
        munitions by Israel, in accordance with existing requirements 
        and practices regarding the export of defense articles and 
        defense services, coordinated with the United States Air Force 
        annual purchase of precision-guided munitions, would enhance 
        the security of both the United States and Israel by--
                    (A) promoting a more efficient use of defense 
                resources by taking advantage of economies of scale;
                    (B) enabling the United States and Israel to 
                address crisis requirements for precision-guided 
                munitions in a timely and flexible manner; and
                    (C) encouraging the defense industrial base to 
                maintain routine production lines of precision-guided 
                munitions.

SEC. 6284. BLOCKING DEADLY FENTANYL IMPORTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Blocking 
Deadly Fentanyl Imports Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 481(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``in which'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``in which'' 
                before ``1,000'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by inserting ``in which'' before 
                        ``1,000''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``or'' at the end;
                    (D) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) by inserting ``in which'' before 
                        ``5,000''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or'' after the 
                        semicolon; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) that is a significant source of illicit 
                synthetic opioids significantly affecting the United 
                States;''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by adding ``and'' at the 
                end; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) assistance that furthers the objectives set 
                forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 664(b) 
                of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 
                2003 (22 U.S.C. 2151n-2(b));
                    ``(F) assistance to combat trafficking authorized 
                under the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
                Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.)); and
                    ``(G) global health assistance authorized under 
                sections 104 through 104C of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151b through 22 U.S.C. 2151b-4).''.
    (c) International Narcotics Control Strategy Report.--Section 
489(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) A separate section that contains the following:
                    ``(A) An identification of the countries, to the 
                extent feasible, that are the most significant sources 
                of illicit fentanyl and fentanyl analogues 
                significantly affecting the United States during the 
                preceding calendar year.
                    ``(B) A description of the extent to which each 
                country identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) has 
                cooperated with the United States to prevent the 
                articles or chemicals described in subparagraph (A) 
                from being exported from such country to the United 
                States.
                    ``(C) A description of whether each country 
                identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) has adopted and 
                utilizes scheduling or other procedures for illicit 
                drugs that are similar in effect to the procedures 
                authorized under title II of the Controlled Substances 
                Act (21 U.S.C. 811 et seq.) for adding drugs and other 
                substances to the controlled substances schedules;
                    ``(D) A description of whether each country 
                identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) is following 
                steps to prosecute individuals involved in the illicit 
                manufacture or distribution of controlled substance 
                analogues (as defined in section 102(32) of the 
                Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(32)); and
                    ``(E) A description of whether each country 
                identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) requires the 
                registration of tableting machines and encapsulating 
                machines or other measures similar in effect to the 
                registration requirements set forth in part 1310 of 
                title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, and has not made 
                good faith efforts, in the opinion of the Secretary, to 
                improve regulation of tableting machines and 
                encapsulating machines.''.
    (d) Withholding of Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Section 490(a) of the Foreign Assistance 
        Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291j(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or country 
                identified pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of section 
                489(a)(8)(A) of this Act'' and inserting ``country 
                identified pursuant to section 489(a)(8)(A), or country 
                thrice identified during a 5-year period pursuant to 
                section 489(a)(9)(A)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or major drug-
                transit country (as determined under subsection (h)) or 
                country identified pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of 
                section 489(a)(8)(A) of this Act'' and inserting ``, 
                major drug-transit country, country identified pursuant 
                to section 489(a)(8)(A), or country thrice identified 
                during a 5-year period pursuant to section 
                489(a)(9)(A)''.
            (2) Designation of illicit fentanyl countries without 
        scheduling procedures.--Section 706(2) of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j-1(2)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``also'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ``and'' at 
                the end;
                    (C) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                subparagraph (D);
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) designate each country, if any, identified 
                under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9)) that has failed to 
                adopt and utilize scheduling procedures for illicit 
                drugs that are comparable to the procedures authorized 
                under title II of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
                U.S.C. 811 et seq.) for adding drugs and other 
                substances to the controlled substances schedules;''; 
                and
                    (E) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated, by 
                striking ``so designated'' and inserting ``designated 
                under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C)''.
            (3) Designation of illicit fentanyl countries without 
        ability to prosecute criminals for the manufacture or 
        distribution of fentanyl analogues.--Section 706(2) of the 
        Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (22 
        U.S.C. 2291j-1(2)), as amended by paragraph (2), is further 
        amended by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
                    ``(C) designate each country, if any, identified 
                under section 489(a)(9) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291h(a)(9)) that has not taken 
                significant steps to prosecute individuals involved in 
                the illicit manufacture or distribution of controlled 
                substance analogues (as defined in section 102(32) of 
                the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(32));''.
            (4) Limitation on assistance for designated countries.--
        Section 706(3) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
        Fiscal Year 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j-1(3)) is amended by striking 
        ``also designated under paragraph (2) in the report'' and 
        inserting ``designated in the report under paragraph (2)(A) or 
        thrice designated during a 5-year period in the report under 
        subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2)''.
            (5) Exception to the limitation on assistance.--Section 
        706(5) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 
        2003 (22 U.S.C. 2291j-1(5)) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                subparagraph (F);
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the 
                following:
                    ``(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), assistance to 
                promote democracy (as described in section 481(e)(4)(E) 
                of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
                2291(e)(4)(E))) shall be provided to countries 
                identified in a report under paragraph (1) and 
                designated under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph 
                (2), to the extent such countries are otherwise 
                eligible for such assistance, regardless of whether the 
                President reports to the appropriate congressional 
                committees in accordance with such paragraph.
                    ``(D) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), assistance to 
                combat trafficking (as described in section 
                481(e)(4)(F) of such Act) shall be provided to 
                countries identified in a report under paragraph (1) 
                and designated under subparagraph (B) or (C) of 
                paragraph (2), to the extent such countries are 
                otherwise eligible for such assistance, regardless of 
                whether the President reports to the appropriate 
                congressional committees in accordance with such 
                paragraph.
                    ``(E) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), global health 
                assistance (as described in section 481(e)(4)(G) of 
                such Act) shall be provided to countries identified in 
                a report under paragraph (1) and designated under 
                subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2), to the extent 
                such countries are otherwise eligible for such 
                assistance, regardless of whether the President reports 
                to the appropriate congressional committees in 
                accordance with such paragraph''; and
                    (C) in subparagraph (F), as redesignated, by 
                striking ``section clause (i) or (ii) of'' and 
                inserting ``clause (i) or (ii) of section''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 6286. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL OPERATIONS-TECHNOLOGY 
              WORKING GROUP.

    The reference in section 1286(b)(5)(A) to the ``Minister of Defense 
of Israel'' is deemed to refer to the ``Secretary of State and the 
Minister of Defense of Israel''.

          Subtitle H--United States-Israel Security Assistance

SEC. 6290. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``United States-Israel Security 
Assistance Authorization Act of 2020''.

SEC. 6290A. DEFINITION.

    In this subtitle, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (4) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives.

               CHAPTER 1--SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL

SEC. 6291. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On September 14, 2016, the United States and Israel 
        signed a 10-year Memorandum of Understanding to reaffirm the 
        importance of continuing annual United States military 
        assistance to Israel and cooperative missile defense programs 
        in a way that enhances Israel's security and strengthens the 
        bilateral relationship between the 2 countries.
            (2) The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding reflects United 
        States support of Foreign Military Financing grant assistance 
        to Israel over a 10-year period beginning in fiscal year 2019 
        and ending in fiscal year 2028.
            (3) The 2016 Memorandum of Understanding also reflects 
        United States support for funding for cooperative programs to 
        develop, produce, and procure missile, rocket, and projectile 
        defense capabilities during such 10-year period at an average 
        funding level of $500,000,000 per year, totaling $5,000,000,000 
        for such period.

SEC. 6292. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States to provide assistance to the 
Government of Israel for the development and acquisition of advanced 
capabilities that Israel requires to meet its security needs and to 
enhance United States capabilities.

SEC. 6293. SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL.

    Section 513(c) of the Security Assistance Act of 2000 (Public Law 
106-280; 114 Stat. 856) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2002 and 2003'' and 
        inserting ``2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 
        2028'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``equal to--'' and all 
        that follows and inserting ``not less than $3,300,000,000.''; 
        and
            (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) Disbursement of funds.--Amounts authorized to be 
        available for Israel under paragraph (1) and subsection (b)(1) 
        for fiscal years 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027, and 
        2028 shall be disbursed not later than 30 days after the date 
        of the enactment of an Act making appropriations for the 
        Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs 
        for the respective fiscal year, or October 31 of the respective 
        fiscal year, whichever is later.''.

SEC. 6294. EXTENSION OF WAR RESERVES STOCKPILE AUTHORITY.

    (a) Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005.--Section 
12001(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public 
Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking ``September 30, 
2020'' and inserting ``after September 30, 2025''.
    (b) Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.--Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by 
striking ``2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020'' and 
inserting ``2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025''.

SEC. 6295. EXTENSION OF LOAN GUARANTEES TO ISRAEL.

    Chapter 5 of title I of the Emergency Wartime Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 108-11; 117 Stat. 576) is amended 
under the heading ``Loan Guarantees to Israel''--
            (1) in the matter preceding the first proviso, by striking 
        ``September 30, 2023'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''; 
        and
            (2) in the second proviso, by striking ``September 30, 
        2023'' and inserting ``September 30, 2025''.

SEC. 6296. TRANSFER OF PRECISION GUIDED MUNITIONS TO ISRAEL.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 514 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h), the President is authorized 
to transfer to Israel precision guided munitions from reserve stocks 
for Israel in such quantities as may be necessary for legitimate self-
defense of Israel and is otherwise consistent with the purposes and 
conditions for such transfers under the Arms Export Control Act (22 
U.S.C. 2751 et seq.).
    (b) Certifications.--Except in case of emergency, as determined by 
the President, not later than 5 days before making a transfer under 
subsection (a), the President shall certify to the appropriate 
congressional committees that the transfer of the precision guided 
munitions--
            (1) does not affect the ability of the United States to 
        maintain a sufficient supply of precision guided munitions;
            (2) does not harm the combat readiness of the United States 
        or the ability of the United States to meet its commitment to 
        allies for the transfer of such munitions;
            (3) is necessary for Israel to counter the threat of 
        rockets in a timely fashion; and
            (4) is in the national security interest of the United 
        States.

SEC. 6297. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RAPID ACQUISITION AND DEPLOYMENT 
              PROCEDURES.

    It is the sense of Congress that the President should--
            (1) prescribe procedures for the rapid acquisition and 
        deployment of precision guided munitions for United States 
        counterterrorism missions; or
            (2) assist Israel, which is an ally of the United States, 
        to protect itself against direct missile threats.

SEC. 6298. ELIGIBILITY OF ISRAEL FOR THE STRATEGIC TRADE AUTHORIZATION 
              EXCEPTION TO CERTAIN EXPORT CONTROL LICENSING 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Israel has adopted high standards in the field of 
        weapons export controls.
            (2) Israel has declared its unilateral adherence to the 
        Missile Technology Control Regime, the Australia Group, and the 
        Nuclear Suppliers Group.
            (3) Israel is a party to--
                    (A) the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in 
                War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of 
                Bacteriological Methods of Warfare, signed at Geneva 
                June 17, 1925 (commonly known as the ``Geneva 
                Protocol'');
                    (B) the Convention on the Physical Protection of 
                Nuclear Material, signed at Vienna and New York March 
                3, 1980; and
                    (C) the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions 
                on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons Which may be 
                Deemed to be Excessively Injurious or to Have 
                Indiscriminate Effects, signed at Geneva October 10, 
                1980.
            (4) Section 6(b) of the United States-Israel Strategic 
        Partnership Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8603 note) directs the 
        President, consistent with the commitments of the United States 
        under international agreements, to take steps so that Israel 
        may be included in the list of countries eligible for the 
        strategic trade authorization exception under section 
        740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, to the 
        requirement for a license for the export, re-export, or in-
        country transfer of an item subject to controls under the 
        Export Administration Regulations.
    (b) Briefing on Eligibility for Strategic Trade Authorization 
Exception.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the President shall brief the appropriate congressional 
committees by describing the steps taken to include Israel in the list 
of countries eligible for the strategic trade authorization exception 
under section 740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations, as 
required under section 6(b) of the United States-Israel Strategic 
Partnership Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-296).

          CHAPTER 2--ENHANCED UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION

SEC. 6299. UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT MEMORANDA 
              OF UNDERSTANDING TO ENHANCE COOPERATION WITH ISRAEL.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that the United States Agency for 
International Development and Israel's Agency for International 
Development Cooperation signed memoranda of understanding in 2012, 
2017, and 2019 to coordinate the agencies' respective efforts to 
promote common development goals in third countries.
    (b) Sense of Congress Regarding USAID Policy.--It is the sense of 
Congress that the Department of State and the United States Agency for 
International Development should continue to cooperate with Israel to 
advance common development goals in third countries across a wide 
variety of sectors, including energy, agriculture, food security, 
democracy, human rights, governance, economic growth, trade, education, 
environment, global health, water, and sanitation.
    (c) Memoranda of Understanding.--The Secretary of State, acting 
through the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, may enter into memoranda of understanding with Israel to 
advance common goals on energy, agriculture, food security, democracy, 
human rights, governance, economic growth, trade, education, 
environment, global health, water, and sanitation, with a focus on 
strengthening mutual ties and cooperation with nations throughout the 
world.

SEC. 6299A. COOPERATIVE PROJECTS AMONG THE UNITED STATES, ISRAEL, AND 
              DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.

    Section 106 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151d) 
is amended by striking subsections (e) and (f) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(e) There are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for each 
of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025 to finance cooperative projects 
among the United States, Israel, and developing countries that identify 
and support local solutions to address sustainability challenges 
relating to water resources, agriculture, and energy storage, 
including--
            ``(1) establishing public-private partnerships;
            ``(2) supporting the identification, research, development 
        testing, and scaling of innovations that focus on populations 
        that are vulnerable to environmental and resource-scarcity 
        crises, such as subsistence farming communities;
            ``(3) seed or transition-to-scale funding;
            ``(4) clear and appropriate branding and marking of United 
        States funded assistance, in accordance with section 641; and
            ``(5) accelerating demonstrations or applications of local 
        solutions to sustainability challenges, or the further 
        refinement, testing, or implementation of innovations that have 
        previously effectively addressed sustainability challenges.
    ``(f) Amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (e) shall be 
obligated in accordance with the memoranda of understanding referred to 
in subsections (a) and (c) of section 6299 of the United States-Israel 
Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2020''.

SEC. 6299B. JOINT COOPERATIVE PROGRAM RELATED TO INNOVATION AND HIGH-
              TECH FOR THE MIDDLE EAST REGION.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should help foster cooperation in the 
        Middle East region by financing and, as appropriate, 
        cooperating in projects related to innovation and advanced 
        technologies; and
            (2) projects referred to in paragraph (1) should--
                    (A) contribute to development and the quality of 
                life in the Middle East region through the application 
                of research and advanced technology; and
                    (B) contribute to Arab-Israeli cooperation by 
                establishing strong working relationships that last 
                beyond the life of such projects.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary of State, acting through the 
Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development, is authorized to seek to establish a program between the 
United States and appropriate regional partners to provide for 
cooperation in the Middle East region by supporting projects related to 
innovation and advanced technologies.
    (c) Project Requirements.--Each project carried out under the 
program established pursuant to subsection (b)--
            (1) shall include the participation of at least 1 entity 
        from Israel and 1 entity from another regional partner; and
            (2) shall be conducted in a manner that appropriately 
        protects sensitive information, intellectual property, the 
        national security interests of the United States, and the 
        national security interests of Israel.

SEC. 6299C. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ECONOMIC 
              COOPERATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States-Israel economic partnership--
                    (A) has achieved great tangible and intangible 
                benefits to both countries; and
                    (B) is a foundational component of the strong 
                alliance;
            (2) science and technology innovations present promising 
        new frontiers for United States-Israel economic cooperation, 
        particularly in light of widespread drought, cybersecurity 
        attacks, and other major challenges impacting the United 
        States; and
            (3) the President should regularize and expand existing 
        forums of economic dialogue with Israel and foster both public 
        and private sector participation.

SEC. 6299D. COOPERATION ON DIRECTED ENERGY CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to carry 
        out research, development, test, and evaluation activities, on 
        a joint basis with Israel, to establish directed energy 
        capabilities that address threats to the United States, 
        deployed forces of the United States, or Israel. Any activities 
        carried out under this paragraph shall be conducted in a manner 
        that appropriately protects sensitive information, intellectual 
        property, the national security interests of the United States, 
        and the national security interests of Israel.
            (2) Report.--The activities described in paragraph (1) may 
        be carried out after the Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, submits a report to the 
        appropriate congressional committees that includes--
                    (A) a memorandum of agreement between the United 
                States and Israel regarding sharing of research and 
                development costs for the capabilities described in 
                paragraph (1), and any supporting documents; and
                    (B) a certification that the memorandum of 
                agreement referred to in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) requires sharing of costs of projects, 
                        including in-kind support, between the United 
                        States and Israel;
                            (ii) establishes a framework to negotiate 
                        the rights to any intellectual property 
                        developed under the memorandum of agreement; 
                        and
                            (iii) requires the United States Government 
                        to receive semiannual reports on expenditure of 
                        funds, if any, by the Government of Israel, 
                        including--
                                    (I) a description of what the funds 
                                have been used for and when funds were 
                                expended; and
                                    (II) the identification of entities 
                                that expended such funds.
    (b) Support in Connection With Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to provide 
        maintenance and sustainment support to Israel for the directed 
        energy capabilities research, development, test, and evaluation 
        activities authorized under subsection (a)(1), including the 
        installation of equipment that is necessary to carry out such 
        research, development, test, and evaluation.
            (2) Report.--The support described in paragraph (1) may not 
        be provided until 15 days after the date on which the Secretary 
        of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
        submits a report to the appropriate congressional committees 
        that describes in detail the support to be provided.
            (3) Matching contribution.--The support described in 
        paragraph (1) may not be provided unless the Secretary of 
        Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
        certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the 
        Government of Israel will contribute to such support--
                    (A) an amount not less than the amount of support 
                to be so provided; or
                    (B) an amount that otherwise meets the best efforts 
                of Israel, as mutually agreed to by the United States 
                and Israel.
    (c) Semiannual Report.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall submit a semiannual report 
to the appropriate congressional committees that includes the most 
recent semiannual report provided by the Government of Israel to the 
United States Government.

SEC. 6299E. PLANS TO PROVIDE ISRAEL WITH NECESSARY DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
              SERVICES IN A CONTINGENCY.

    (a) In General.--The President shall establish and update, as 
appropriate, plans to provide Israel with defense articles and services 
that are determined by the Secretary of Defense to be necessary for the 
defense of Israel in a contingency.
    (b) Congressional Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President 
shall brief the appropriate congressional committees regarding the 
status of the plans required under subsection (a).

SEC. 6299F. OTHER MATTERS OF COOPERATION.

    (a) In General.--Activities authorized under this section shall be 
carried out with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and aligned 
with the National Security Strategy of the United States, the United 
States Government Global Health Security Strategy, the Department of 
State Integrated Country Strategies, the USAID Country Development 
Cooperation Strategies, and any equivalent or successor plans or 
strategies, as necessary and appropriate
    (b) Development of Health Technologies.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services $4,000,000 for each 
        of the fiscal years 2021 through 2023 for a bilateral 
        cooperative program with the Government of Israel that awards 
        grants for the development of health technologies, including 
        health technologies listed in paragraph (2), subject to 
        paragraph (3), with an emphasis on collaboratively advancing 
        the use of technology and personalized medicine in relation to 
        COVID-19.
            (2) Types of health technologies.--The health technologies 
        described in this paragraph may include technologies such as 
        sensors, drugs and vaccinations, respiratory assist devices, 
        diagnostic tests, and telemedicine.
            (3) Restrictions on funding.--Amounts appropriated pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) are subject to a matching contribution from 
        the Government of Israel.
            (4) Option for establishing new program.--Amounts 
        appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) may be expended for a 
        bilateral program with the Government of Israel that--
                    (A) is in existence on the day before the date of 
                the enactment of this Act for the purposes described in 
                paragraph (1); or
                    (B) is established after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act by the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services, in consultation with the Secretary of State, 
                in accordance with the Agreement between the Government 
                of the United States of America and the Government of 
                the State of Israel on Cooperation in Science and 
                Technology for Homeland Security Matters, done at 
                Jerusalem May 29, 2008 (or a successor agreement), for 
                the purposes described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Coordinator of United States-Israel Research and Development.--
            (1) In general.--The President may designate the Assistant 
        Secretary of State for the Bureau of Oceans and International 
        Environmental and Scientific Affairs, or another appropriate 
        Department of State official, to act as Coordinator of United 
        States-Israel Research and Development (referred to in this 
        subsection as the ``Coordinator'').
            (2) Authorities and duties.--The Coordinator, in 
        conjunction with the heads of relevant Federal Government 
        departments and agencies and in coordination with the Israel 
        Innovation Authority, may oversee civilian science and 
        technology programs on a joint basis with Israel.
    (d) Office of Global Policy and Strategy of the Food and Drug 
Administration.--
            (1) In general.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
        Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration should seek to 
        explore collaboration with Israel through the Office of Global 
        Policy and Strategy.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Commissioner, acting through the 
        head of the Office of Global Policy and Strategy, shall submit 
        a report describing the benefits to the United States and to 
        Israel of opening an office in Israel for the Office of Global 
        Policy and Strategy to--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
                Pensions of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (D) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives.
    (e) United States-Israel Energy Center.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy $4,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2021 through 2023 to carry out the activities of the 
United States-Israel Energy Center established pursuant to section 
917(d) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 
17337(d)).
    (f) United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and 
Development Foundation.--It is the sense of Congress that grants to 
promote covered energy projects conducted by, or in conjunction with, 
the United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development 
Foundation should be funded at not less than $2,000,000 annually under 
section 917(b) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 17337(b)).
    (g) United States-Israel Cooperation on Energy, Water, Homeland 
Security, Agriculture, and Alternative Fuel Technologies.--Section 7 of 
the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 
8606) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2021 through 2023.''.
    (h) Annual Policy Dialogue.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Department of Transportation and Israel's Ministry of Transportation 
should engage in an annual policy dialogue to implement the 2016 
Memorandum of Cooperation signed by the Secretary of Transportation and 
the Israeli Minister of Transportation.
    (i) Cooperation on Space Exploration and Science Initiatives.--The 
Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
shall continue to work with the Israel Space Agency to identify and 
cooperatively pursue peaceful space exploration and science initiatives 
in areas of mutual interest, taking all appropriate measures to protect 
sensitive information, intellectual property, trade secrets, and 
economic interests of the United States.
    (j) Research and Development Cooperation Relating to Desalination 
Technology.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy 
shall submit a report that describes research and development 
cooperation with international partners, such as the State of Israel, 
in the area of desalination technology in accordance with section 
9(b)(3) of the Water Desalination Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 10301 note) 
to--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (4) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (k) Research and Treatment of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.--It is 
the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs should 
seek to explore collaboration between the Mental Illness Research, 
Education and Clinical Centers of Excellence and Israeli institutions 
with expertise in researching and treating posttraumatic stress 
disorder.

    TITLE LXVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                 Subtitle B--Cyberspace Related Matters

SEC. 6611. REPORT ON USE OF ENCRYPTION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
              NATIONAL SECURITY SYSTEMS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a report 
detailing the mission need and efficacy of full disk encryption across 
Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and Secretary 
Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) endpoint computer systems. 
Such report shall cover matters relating to cost, mission impact, and 
implementation timeline.

SEC. 6612. GUIDANCE AND DIRECTION ON USE OF DIRECT HIRING PROCESSES FOR 
              ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PROFESSIONALS AND OTHER DATA 
              SCIENCE AND SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT PERSONNEL.

    (a) Guidance Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
guidance to the secretaries of the military departments and the heads 
of the defense components on improved use of the direct hiring 
processes for artificial intelligence professionals and other data 
science and software development personnel.
    (b) Objective.--The objective of the guidance issued under 
subsection (a) shall be to ensure that organizational leaders assume 
greater responsibility for the results of civilian hiring of artificial 
intelligence professionals and other data science and software 
development personnel.
    (c) Contents of Guidance.--At a minimum, the guidance required by 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) instruct human resources professionals and hiring 
        authorities to utilize available direct hiring authorities 
        (including excepted service authorities) for the hiring of 
        artificial intelligence professionals and other data science 
        and software development personnel, to the maximum extent 
        practicable;
            (2) instruct hiring authorities, when using direct hiring 
        authorities, to prioritize utilization of panels of subject 
        matter experts over human resources professionals to assess 
        applicant qualifications and determine which applicants are 
        best qualified for a position;
            (3) authorize and encourage the use of ePortfolio reviews 
        to provide insight into the previous work of applicants as a 
        tangible demonstration of capabilities and contribute to the 
        assessment of applicant qualifications by subject matter 
        experts; and
            (4) encourage the use of referral bonuses for recruitment 
        and hiring of highly qualified artificial intelligence 
        professionals and other data science and software development 
        personnel in accordance with volume 451 of Department of 
        Defense Instruction 1400.25.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date on 
        which the guidance is issued under subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the guidance issued pursuant to 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Contents.--At a minimum, the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall address the following:
                    (A) The objectives of the guidance and the manner 
                in which the guidance seeks to achieve those 
                objectives.
                    (B) The effect of the guidance on the hiring 
                process for artificial intelligence professionals and 
                other data science and software development personnel, 
                including the effect on--
                            (i) hiring time;
                            (ii) the use of direct hiring authority;
                            (iii) the use of subject matter experts; 
                        and
                            (iv) the quality of new hires, as assessed 
                        by hiring managers and organizational leaders.

SEC. 6613. CYBERSECURITY STATE COORDINATOR ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Cybersecurity 
State Coordinator Act of 2020''.
    (b) Cybersecurity State Coordinator.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland 
        Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 2202(c) (6 U.S.C. 652(c))--
                            (i) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) by redesignating paragraph (11) as 
                        paragraph (12); and
                            (iii) by inserting after paragraph (10) the 
                        following:
            ``(11) appoint a Cybersecurity State Coordinator in each 
        State, as described in section 2215; and''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 2215. CYBERSECURITY STATE COORDINATOR.

    ``(a) Appointment.--The Director shall appoint an employee of the 
Agency in each State, with the appropriate cybersecurity qualifications 
and expertise, who shall serve as the Cybersecurity State Coordinator.
    ``(b) Duties.--The duties of a Cybersecurity State Coordinator 
appointed under subsection (a) shall include--
            ``(1) building strategic relationships across Federal and, 
        on a voluntary basis, non-Federal entities by advising on 
        establishing governance structures to facilitate the 
        development and maintenance of secure and resilient 
        infrastructure;
            ``(2) serving as a Federal cybersecurity risk advisor and 
        coordinating between Federal and, on a voluntary basis, non-
        Federal entities to support preparation, response, and 
        remediation efforts relating to cybersecurity risks and 
        incidents;
            ``(3) facilitating the sharing of cyber threat information 
        between Federal and, on a voluntary basis, non-Federal entities 
        to improve understanding of cybersecurity risks and situational 
        awareness of cybersecurity incidents;
            ``(4) raising awareness of the financial, technical, and 
        operational resources available from the Federal Government to 
        non-Federal entities to increase resilience against cyber 
        threats;
            ``(5) supporting training, exercises, and planning for 
        continuity of operations to expedite recovery from 
        cybersecurity incidents, including ransomware;
            ``(6) serving as a principal point of contact for non-
        Federal entities to engage, on a voluntary basis, with the 
        Federal Government on preparing, managing, and responding to 
        cybersecurity incidents;
            ``(7) assisting non-Federal entities in developing and 
        coordinating vulnerability disclosure programs consistent with 
        Federal and information security industry standards; and
            ``(8) performing such other duties as determined necessary 
        by the Director to achieve the goal of managing cybersecurity 
        risks in the United States and reducing the impact of cyber 
        threats to non-Federal entities.
    ``(c) Feedback.--The Director shall consult with relevant State and 
local officials regarding the appointment, and State and local 
officials and other non-Federal entities regarding the performance, of 
the Cybersecurity State Coordinator of a State.''.
            (2) Oversight.--The Director of the Cybersecurity and 
        Infrastructure Security Agency shall provide to the Committee 
        on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives a briefing on the placement and efficacy of the 
        Cybersecurity State Coordinators appointed under section 2215 
        of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by paragraph 
        (1)--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) not later than 2 years after providing the 
                first briefing under this paragraph.
            (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection or 
        the amendments made by this subsection shall be construed to 
        affect or otherwise modify the authority of Federal law 
        enforcement agencies with respect to investigations relating to 
        cybersecurity incidents.
            (4) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of 
        contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
        (Public Law 107-296; 116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 2214 the following:

``Sec. 2215. Cybersecurity State Coordinator.''.

SEC. 6614. CYBERSECURITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Cybersecurity 
Advisory Committee Authorization Act of 2020''.
    (b) In General.--Subtitle A of title XXII of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.), as amended by section 6613 of this 
Act, is further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 2216. CYBERSECURITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish within the 
Agency a Cybersecurity Advisory Committee (referred to in this section 
as the `Advisory Committee').
    ``(b) Duties.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall advise, 
        consult with, report to, and make recommendations to the 
        Director, as appropriate, on the development, refinement, and 
        implementation of policies, programs, planning, and training 
        pertaining to the cybersecurity mission of the Agency.
            ``(2) Recommendations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                develop, at the request of the Director, 
                recommendations for improvements to advance the 
                cybersecurity mission of the Agency and strengthen the 
                cybersecurity of the United States.
                    ``(B) Recommendations of subcommittees.--
                Recommendations agreed upon by subcommittees 
                established under subsection (d) for any year shall be 
                approved by the Advisory Committee before the Advisory 
                Committee submits to the Director the annual report 
                under paragraph (4) for that year.
            ``(3) Periodic reports.--The Advisory Committee shall 
        periodically submit to the Director--
                    ``(A) reports on matters identified by the 
                Director; and
                    ``(B) reports on other matters identified by a 
                majority of the members of the Advisory Committee.
            ``(4) Annual report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                submit to the Director an annual report providing 
                information on the activities, findings, and 
                recommendations of the Advisory Committee, including 
                its subcommittees, for the preceding year.
                    ``(B) Publication.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date on which the Director receives an annual 
                report for a year under subparagraph (A), the Director 
                shall publish a public version of the report describing 
                the activities of the Advisory Committee and such 
                related matters as would be informative to the public 
                during that year, consistent with section 552(b) of 
                title 5, United States Code.
            ``(5) Feedback.--Not later than 90 days after receiving any 
        recommendation submitted by the Advisory Committee under 
        paragraph (2), (3), or (4), the Director shall respond in 
        writing to the Advisory Committee with feedback on the 
        recommendation. Such a response shall include--
                    ``(A) with respect to any recommendation with which 
                the Director concurs, an action plan to implement the 
                recommendation; and
                    ``(B) with respect to any recommendation with which 
                the Director does not concur, a justification for why 
                the Director does not plan to implement the 
                recommendation.
            ``(6) Congressional notification.--Not less frequently than 
        once per year after the date of enactment of this section, the 
        Director shall provide to the Committee on Homeland Security 
        and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a 
        briefing on feedback from the Advisory Committee.
            ``(7) Governance rules.--The Director shall establish rules 
        for the structure and governance of the Advisory Committee and 
        all subcommittees established under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Membership.--
            ``(1) Appointment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                the date of enactment of the Cybersecurity Advisory 
                Committee Authorization Act of 2020, the Director shall 
                appoint the members of the Advisory Committee.
                    ``(B) Composition.--The membership of the Advisory 
                Committee shall consist of not more than 35 
                individuals.
                    ``(C) Representation.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The membership of the 
                        Advisory Committee shall--
                                    ``(I) consist of subject matter 
                                experts;
                                    ``(II) be geographically balanced; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) include representatives of 
                                State, local, and Tribal governments 
                                and of a broad range of industries, 
                                which may include the following:
                                            ``(aa) Defense.
                                            ``(bb) Education.
                                            ``(cc) Financial services 
                                        and insurance.
                                            ``(dd) Healthcare.
                                            ``(ee) Manufacturing.
                                            ``(ff) Media and 
                                        entertainment.
                                            ``(gg) Chemicals.
                                            ``(hh) Retail.
                                            ``(ii) Transportation.
                                            ``(jj) Energy.
                                            ``(kk) Information 
                                        Technology.
                                            ``(ll) Communications.
                                            ``(mm) Other relevant 
                                        fields identified by the 
                                        Director.
                            ``(ii) Prohibition.--Not less than 1 member 
                        nor more than 3 members may represent any 1 
                        category under clause (i)(III).
                            ``(iii) Publication of membership list.--
                        The Advisory Committee shall publish its 
                        membership list on a publicly available website 
                        not less than once per fiscal year and shall 
                        update the membership list as changes occur.
            ``(2) Term of office.--
                    ``(A) Terms.--The term of each member of the 
                Advisory Committee shall be 2 years, except that a 
                member may continue to serve until a successor is 
                appointed.
                    ``(B) Removal.--The Director may review the 
                participation of a member of the Advisory Committee and 
                remove such member any time at the discretion of the 
                Director.
                    ``(C) Reappointment.--A member of the Advisory 
                Committee may be reappointed for an unlimited number of 
                terms.
            ``(3) Prohibition on compensation.--The members of the 
        Advisory Committee may not receive pay or benefits from the 
        United States Government by reason of their service on the 
        Advisory Committee.
            ``(4) Meetings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Director shall require the 
                Advisory Committee to meet not less frequently than 
                semiannually, and may convene additional meetings as 
                necessary.
                    ``(B) Public meetings.--At least one of the 
                meetings referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be open 
                to the public.
                    ``(C) Attendance.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                maintain a record of the persons present at each 
                meeting.
            ``(5) Member access to classified information.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date on which a member is first appointed to the 
                Advisory Committee and before the member is granted 
                access to any classified information, the Director 
                shall determine, for the purposes of the Advisory 
                Committee, if the member should be restricted from 
                reviewing, discussing, or possessing classified 
                information.
                    ``(B) Access.--Access to classified materials shall 
                be managed in accordance with Executive Order No. 13526 
                of December 29, 2009 (75 Fed. Reg. 707), or any 
                subsequent corresponding Executive Order.
                    ``(C) Protections.--A member of the Advisory 
                Committee shall protect all classified information in 
                accordance with the applicable requirements for the 
                particular level of classification of such information.
                    ``(D) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph shall be construed to affect the security 
                clearance of a member of the Advisory Committee or the 
                authority of a Federal agency to provide a member of 
                the Advisory Committee access to classified 
                information.
            ``(6) Chairperson.--The Advisory Committee shall select, 
        from among the members of the Advisory Committee--
                    ``(A) a member to serve as chairperson of the 
                Advisory Committee; and
                    ``(B) a member to serve as chairperson of each 
                subcommittee of the Advisory Committee established 
                under subsection (d).
    ``(d) Subcommittees.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director shall establish 
        subcommittees within the Advisory Committee to address 
        cybersecurity issues, which may include the following:
                    ``(A) Information exchange.
                    ``(B) Critical infrastructure.
                    ``(C) Risk management.
                    ``(D) Public and private partnerships.
            ``(2) Meetings and reporting.--Each subcommittee shall meet 
        not less frequently than semiannually, and submit to the 
        Advisory Committee for inclusion in the annual report required 
        under subsection (b)(4) information, including activities, 
        findings, and recommendations, regarding subject matter 
        considered by the subcommittee.
            ``(3) Subject matter experts.--The chair of the Advisory 
        Committee shall appoint members to subcommittees and shall 
        ensure that each member appointed to a subcommittee has subject 
        matter expertise relevant to the subject matter of the 
        subcommittee.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 116 Stat. 2135), 
as so amended, is further amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 2215 the following:

``Sec. 2216. Cybersecurity Advisory Committee.''.

SEC. 6615. CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States continues to face critical shortages 
        in the national cybersecurity workforce;
            (2) the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency 
        within the Department of Homeland Security has the 
        responsibility to manage cyber and physical risks to our 
        critical infrastructure, including by ensuring a national 
        workforce supply to support cybersecurity through education, 
        training, and capacity development efforts;
            (3) to reestablish the technology leadership, security, and 
        economic competitiveness of the United States, the 
        Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency should create 
        a sustainable pipeline by strengthening K-12 cybersecurity 
        outreach and education nationwide.
    (b) Authorities.--Section 2202(e)(1) of the Homeland Security Act 
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 652(e)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
                    ``(R) To encourage and build cybersecurity 
                awareness and competency across the United States and 
                to develop, attract, and retain the cybersecurity 
                workforce necessary for the cybersecurity related 
                missions of the Department, including by--
                            ``(i) overseeing K-12 cybersecurity 
                        education and awareness related programs at the 
                        agency;
                            ``(ii) leading efforts to develop, attract, 
                        and retain the cybersecurity workforce 
                        necessary for the cybersecurity related 
                        missions of the Department;
                            ``(iii) encouraging and building 
                        cybersecurity awareness and competency across 
                        the United States; and
                            ``(iv) carrying out cybersecurity related 
                        workforce development activities, including 
                        through--
                                    ``(I) increasing the pipeline of 
                                future cybersecurity professionals 
                                through programs focused on K-12, 
                                higher education, and non-traditional 
                                students; and
                                    ``(II) building awareness of and 
                                competency in cybersecurity across the 
                                civilian Federal government 
                                workforce.''.
    (c) Education, Training, and Capacity Development.--Section 2202(c) 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 652(c)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (11) as paragraph (12);
            (2) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (10) the following:
            ``(11) provide education, training, and capacity 
        development for Federal and non-Federal entities to enhance the 
        security and resiliency of domestic and global cybersecurity 
        and infrastructure security; and''.
    (d) Establishment of Training Programs.--Subtitle A of title XXII 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 651 et seq.), as amended 
by section 6614 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 2217. CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Cybersecurity Education and Training 
        Assistance Program (referred to in this section as `CETAP') is 
        established within the Agency.
            ``(2) Purpose.--The purpose of CETAP shall be to support 
        the effort of the Agency in building and strengthening a 
        national cybersecurity workforce pipeline capacity through 
        enabling K-12 cybersecurity education, including by--
                    ``(A) providing foundational cybersecurity 
                awareness and literacy;
                    ``(B) encouraging cybersecurity career exploration; 
                and
                    ``(C) supporting the teaching of cybersecurity 
                skills at the K-12 levels.
    ``(b) Requirements.--In carrying out CETAP, the Director shall--
            ``(1) ensure that the program--
                    ``(A) creates and disseminates K-12 cybersecurity-
                focused curricula and career awareness materials;
                    ``(B) conducts professional development sessions 
                for teachers;
                    ``(C) develops resources for the teaching of K-12 
                cybersecurity-focused curricula;
                    ``(D) provides direct student engagement 
                opportunities through camps and other programming;
                    ``(E) engages with local and State education 
                authorities to promote awareness of the program and 
                ensure that offerings align with State and local 
                standards;
                    ``(F) integrates with existing post-secondary 
                education and workforce development programs at the 
                Department;
                    ``(G) establishes and maintains national standards 
                for K-12 cyber education;
                    ``(H) partners with cybersecurity and education 
                stakeholder groups to expand outreach; and
                    ``(I) any other activity the Director determines 
                necessary to meet the purpose described in subsection 
                (a)(2); and
            ``(2) enable the deployment of CETAP nationwide, with 
        special consideration for underserved populations or 
        communities.
    ``(c) Briefings.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        establishment of CETAP, and annually thereafter, the Secretary 
        shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of 
        the House of Representatives on the program.
            ``(2) Contents.--Each briefing conducted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include--
                    ``(A) estimated figures on the number of students 
                reached and teachers engaged;
                    ``(B) information on community outreach and State 
                engagement efforts;
                    ``(C) information on new curricula offerings and 
                teacher training platforms; and
                    ``(D) information on coordination with post-
                secondary education and workforce development programs 
                at the Department.
    ``(d) Mission Promotion.--The Director may use appropriated amounts 
to purchase promotional and recognition items and marketing and 
advertising services to publicize and promote the mission and services 
of the Agency, support the activities of the Agency, and to recruit and 
retain Agency personnel.''.
    (e) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 
116 Stat. 2135), as so amended, is further amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 2216 the following:

``Sec. 2217. Cybersecurity Education and Training Programs.''.

                       Subtitle C--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 6651. REPORT ON ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE HARDENING OF GROUND-BASED 
              STRATEGIC DETERRENT WEAPONS SYSTEM.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report on establishing 
requirements and protocols to ensure that the ground-based strategic 
deterrent weapons system is hardened against electromagnetic pulses.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
a description of the following:
            (1) The testing protocols the ground-based strategic 
        deterrent program will use for electromagnetic pulse testing.
            (2) How requirements for electromagnetic pulse hardness 
        will be integrated into the ground-based strategic deterrent 
        program.
            (3) Plans for electromagnetic pulse verification tests of 
        the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system.
            (4) Plans for electromagnetic pulse testing of nonmissile 
        components of the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons 
        system.
            (5) Plans to sustain electromagnetic pulse qualification of 
        the ground-based strategic deterrent weapons system.

                 TITLE LXVII--NUCLEAR ENERGY LEADERSHIP

SEC. 6701. ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 959A. ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term `advanced nuclear 
        reactor' means--
                    ``(A) a nuclear fission reactor, including a 
                prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 
                of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                regulations)), with significant improvements compared 
                to the most recent generation of fission reactors, 
                including improvements such as--
                            ``(i) additional inherent safety features;
                            ``(ii) lower waste yields;
                            ``(iii) improved fuel performance;
                            ``(iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel 
                        cooling;
                            ``(v) enhanced reliability;
                            ``(vi) increased proliferation resistance;
                            ``(vii) increased thermal efficiency;
                            ``(viii) reduced consumption of cooling 
                        water;
                            ``(ix) the ability to integrate into 
                        electric applications and nonelectric 
                        applications;
                            ``(x) modular sizes to allow for deployment 
                        that corresponds with the demand for 
                        electricity; or
                            ``(xi) operational flexibility to respond 
                        to changes in demand for electricity and to 
                        complement integration with intermittent 
                        renewable energy; and
                    ``(B) a fusion reactor.
            ``(2) Demonstration project.--The term `demonstration 
        project' means an advanced nuclear reactor operated in any 
        manner, including as part of the power generation facilities of 
        an electric utility system, for the purpose of demonstrating 
        the suitability for commercial application of the advanced 
        nuclear reactor.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to direct the 
Secretary, as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this 
section, to advance the research and development of domestic advanced, 
affordable, and clean nuclear energy by--
            ``(1) demonstrating different advanced nuclear reactor 
        technologies that could be used by the private sector to 
        produce--
                    ``(A) emission-free power at a levelized cost of 
                electricity of $60 per megawatt-hour or less;
                    ``(B) heat for community heating, industrial 
                purposes, or synthetic fuel production;
                    ``(C) remote or off-grid energy supply; or
                    ``(D) backup or mission-critical power supplies;
            ``(2) developing subgoals for nuclear energy research 
        programs that would accomplish the goals of the demonstration 
        projects carried out under subsection (c);
            ``(3) identifying research areas that the private sector is 
        unable or unwilling to undertake due to the cost of, or risks 
        associated with, the research; and
            ``(4) facilitating the access of the private sector--
                    ``(A) to Federal research facilities and personnel; 
                and
                    ``(B) to the results of research relating to civil 
                nuclear technology funded by the Federal Government.
    ``(c) Demonstration Projects.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable--
                    ``(A) enter into agreements to complete not fewer 
                than 2 demonstration projects by not later than 
                December 31, 2025; and
                    ``(B) establish a program to enter into agreements 
                to complete 1 additional operational demonstration 
                project by not later than December 31, 2035.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out demonstration projects 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) include diversity in designs for the advanced 
                nuclear reactors demonstrated under this section, 
                including designs using various--
                            ``(i) primary coolants;
                            ``(ii) fuel types and compositions; and
                            ``(iii) neutron spectra;
                    ``(B) seek to ensure that--
                            ``(i) the long-term cost of electricity or 
                        heat for each design to be demonstrated under 
                        this subsection is cost-competitive in the 
                        applicable market;
                            ``(ii) the selected projects can meet the 
                        deadline established in paragraph (1) to 
                        demonstrate first-of-a-kind advanced nuclear 
                        reactor technologies, for which additional 
                        information shall be considered, including--
                                    ``(I) the technology readiness 
                                level of a proposed advanced nuclear 
                                reactor technology;
                                    ``(II) the technical abilities and 
                                qualifications of teams desiring to 
                                demonstrate a proposed advanced nuclear 
                                reactor technology; and
                                    ``(III) the capacity to meet cost-
                                share requirements of the Department;
                    ``(C) ensure that each evaluation of candidate 
                technologies for the demonstration projects is 
                completed through an external review of proposed 
                designs, which review shall--
                            ``(i) be conducted by a panel that includes 
                        not fewer than 1 representative of each of--
                                    ``(I) an electric utility; and
                                    ``(II) an entity that uses high-
                                temperature process heat for 
                                manufacturing or industrial processing, 
                                such as a petrochemical company, a 
                                manufacturer of metals, or a 
                                manufacturer of concrete;
                            ``(ii) include a review of cost-
                        competitiveness and other value streams, 
                        together with the technology readiness level, 
                        of each design to be demonstrated under this 
                        subsection; and
                            ``(iii) not be required for a demonstration 
                        project that receives no financial assistance 
                        from the Department for construction costs;
                    ``(D) for federally funded demonstration projects, 
                enter into cost-sharing agreements with private sector 
                partners in accordance with section 988 for the conduct 
                of activities relating to the research, development, 
                and demonstration of private-sector advanced nuclear 
                reactor designs under the program;
                    ``(E) work with private sector partners to identify 
                potential sites, including Department-owned sites, for 
                demonstrations, as appropriate;
                    ``(F) align specific activities carried out under 
                demonstration projects carried out under this 
                subsection with priorities identified through direct 
                consultations between--
                            ``(i) the Department;
                            ``(ii) National Laboratories;
                            ``(iii) institutions of higher education;
                            ``(iv) traditional end-users (such as 
                        electric utilities);
                            ``(v) potential end-users of new 
                        technologies (such as users of high-temperature 
                        process heat for manufacturing processing, 
                        including petrochemical companies, 
                        manufacturers of metals, or manufacturers of 
                        concrete); and
                            ``(vi) developers of advanced nuclear 
                        reactor technology; and
                    ``(G) seek to ensure that the demonstration 
                projects carried out under paragraph (1) do not cause 
                any delay in a deployment of an advanced reactor by 
                private industry and the Department that is underway as 
                of the date of enactment of this section.
            ``(3) Additional requirements.--In carrying out 
        demonstration projects under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    ``(A) identify candidate technologies that--
                            ``(i) are not developed sufficiently for 
                        demonstration within the initial required 
                        timeframe described in paragraph (1)(A); but
                            ``(ii) could be demonstrated within the 
                        timeframe described in paragraph (1)(B);
                    ``(B) identify technical challenges to the 
                candidate technologies identified in subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) support near-term research and development to 
                address the highest-risk technical challenges to the 
                successful demonstration of a selected advanced reactor 
                technology, in accordance with--
                            ``(i) subparagraph (B); and
                            ``(ii) the research and development 
                        activities under sections 952 and 958;
                    ``(D) establish such technology advisory working 
                groups as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to 
                advise the Secretary regarding the technical challenges 
                identified under subparagraph (B) and the scope of 
                research and development programs to address the 
                challenges, in accordance with subparagraph (C), to be 
                comprised of--
                            ``(i) private-sector advanced nuclear 
                        reactor technology developers;
                            ``(ii) technical experts with respect to 
                        the relevant technologies at institutions of 
                        higher education; and
                            ``(iii) technical experts at the National 
                        Laboratories.
    ``(d) Goals.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish goals for 
        research relating to advanced nuclear reactors facilitated by 
        the Department that support the objectives of the program for 
        demonstration projects established under subsection (c).
            ``(2) Coordination.--In developing the goals under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate, on an ongoing 
        basis, with members of private industry to advance the 
        demonstration of various designs of advanced nuclear reactors.
            ``(3) Requirements.--In developing the goals under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that--
                    ``(A) research activities facilitated by the 
                Department to meet the goals developed under this 
                subsection are focused on key areas of nuclear research 
                and deployment ranging from basic science to full-
                design development, safety evaluation, and licensing;
                    ``(B) research programs designed to meet the goals 
                emphasize--
                            ``(i) resolving materials challenges 
                        relating to extreme environments, including 
                        extremely high levels of--
                                    ``(I) radiation fluence;
                                    ``(II) temperature;
                                    ``(III) pressure; and
                                    ``(IV) corrosion; and
                            ``(ii) qualification of advanced fuels;
                    ``(C) activities are carried out that address near-
                term challenges in modeling and simulation to enable 
                accelerated design and licensing;
                    ``(D) related technologies, such as technologies to 
                manage, reduce, or reuse nuclear waste, are developed;
                    ``(E) nuclear research infrastructure is maintained 
                or constructed, such as--
                            ``(i) currently operational research 
                        reactors at the National Laboratories and 
                        institutions of higher education;
                            ``(ii) hot cell research facilities;
                            ``(iii) a versatile fast neutron source; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) a molten salt testing facility;
                    ``(F) basic knowledge of non-light water coolant 
                physics and chemistry is improved;
                    ``(G) advanced sensors and control systems are 
                developed; and
                    ``(H) advanced manufacturing and advanced 
                construction techniques and materials are investigated 
                to reduce the cost of advanced nuclear reactors.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) is 
amended--
            (1) in the item relating to section 917, by striking 
        ``Efficiency'';
            (2) in the items relating to each of sections 957, 958, and 
        959 by inserting ``Sec.'' before the item number; and
            (3) by inserting after the item relating to section 959 the 
        following:

``Sec. 959A. Advanced nuclear reactor research and development 
                            goals.''.

SEC. 6702. NUCLEAR ENERGY STRATEGIC PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271 et seq.) (as amended by section 6701(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 959B. NUCLEAR ENERGY STRATEGIC PLAN.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on 
Energy and Commerce and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
Representatives a 10-year strategic plan for the Office of Nuclear 
Energy of the Department, in accordance with this section.
    ``(b) Requirements.--
            ``(1) Components.--The strategic plan under this section 
        shall designate--
                    ``(A) programs that support the planned 
                accomplishment of--
                            ``(i) the goals established under section 
                        959A; and
                            ``(ii) the demonstration programs 
                        identified under subsection (c) of that 
                        section; and
                    ``(B) programs that--
                            ``(i) do not support the planned 
                        accomplishment of demonstration programs, or 
                        the goals, referred to in subparagraph (A); but
                            ``(ii) are important to the mission of the 
                        Office of Nuclear Energy, as determined by the 
                        Secretary.
            ``(2) Program planning.--In developing the strategic plan 
        under this section, the Secretary shall specify expected 
        timelines for, as applicable--
                    ``(A) the accomplishment of relevant objectives 
                under current programs of the Department; or
                    ``(B) the commencement of new programs to 
                accomplish those objectives.
    ``(c) Updates.--Not less frequently than once every 2 years, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
of the Senate and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives an updated 10-
year strategic plan in accordance with subsection (b), which shall 
identify, and provide a justification for, any major deviation from a 
previous strategic plan submitted under this section.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) (as 
amended by section 6701(b)(3)) is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 959A the following:

``Sec. 959B. Nuclear energy strategic plan.''.

SEC. 6703. VERSATILE, REACTOR-BASED FAST NEUTRON SOURCE.

    Section 955(c)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16275(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``Mission need'' 
        and inserting ``Authorization''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``determine the 
        mission need'' and inserting ``provide''.

SEC. 6704. ADVANCED NUCLEAR FUEL SECURITY PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271 et seq.) (as amended by section 6702(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 960. ADVANCED NUCLEAR FUEL SECURITY PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) HALEU transportation package.--The term `HALEU 
        transportation package' means a transportation package that is 
        suitable for transporting high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
            ``(2) High-assay, low-enriched uranium.--The term `high-
        assay, low-enriched uranium' means uranium with an assay 
        greater than 5 weight percent, but less than 20 weight percent, 
        of the uranium-235 isotope.
            ``(3) High-enriched uranium.--The term `high-enriched 
        uranium' means uranium with an assay of 20 weight percent or 
        more of the uranium-235 isotope.
    ``(b) High-Assay, Low-Enriched Uranium Program for Advanced 
Reactors.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
        of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a 
        program to make available high-assay, low-enriched uranium, 
        through contracts for sale, resale, transfer, or lease, for use 
        in commercial or noncommercial advanced nuclear reactors.
            ``(2) Nuclear fuel ownership.--Each lease under this 
        subsection shall include a provision establishing that the 
        high-assay, low-enriched uranium that is the subject of the 
        lease shall remain the property of the Department, including 
        with respect to responsibility for the storage, use, or final 
        disposition of all radioactive waste created by the 
        irradiation, processing, or purification of any leased high-
        assay, low-enriched uranium.
            ``(3) Quantity.--In carrying out the program under this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall make available--
                    ``(A) by December 31, 2022, high-assay, low-
                enriched uranium containing not less than 2 metric tons 
                of the uranium-235 isotope; and
                    ``(B) by December 31, 2025, high-assay, low-
                enriched uranium containing not less than 10 metric 
                tons of the uranium-235 isotope (as determined 
                including the quantities of the uranium-235 isotope 
                made available before December 31, 2022).
            ``(4) Factors for consideration.--In carrying out the 
        program under this subsection, the Secretary shall take into 
        consideration--
                    ``(A) options for providing the high-assay, low-
                enriched uranium under this subsection from a stockpile 
                of uranium owned by the Department (including the 
                National Nuclear Security Administration), including--
                            ``(i) fuel that--
                                    ``(I) directly meets the needs of 
                                an end-user; but
                                    ``(II) has been previously used or 
                                fabricated for another purpose;
                            ``(ii) fuel that can meet the needs of an 
                        end-user after removing radioactive or other 
                        contaminants that resulted from a previous use 
                        or fabrication of the fuel for research, 
                        development, demonstration, or deployment 
                        activities of the Department (including 
                        activities of the National Nuclear Security 
                        Administration); and
                            ``(iii) fuel from a high-enriched uranium 
                        stockpile, which can be blended with lower-
                        assay uranium to become high-assay, low-
                        enriched uranium to meet the needs of an end-
                        user; and
                    ``(B) requirements to support molybdenum-99 
                production under the American Medical Isotopes 
                Production Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
                2211).
            ``(5) Limitations.--
                    ``(A) Final disposition of radioactive waste.--The 
                Secretary shall not barter or otherwise sell or 
                transfer uranium in any form in exchange for services 
                relating to the final disposition of radioactive waste 
                from uranium that is the subject of a lease under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) National security needs.--The Secretary shall 
                only make available from Department stockpiles under 
                this subsection high-assay, low-enriched uranium that 
                is not needed for national security.
            ``(6) Sunset.--The program under this subsection shall 
        terminate on the earlier of--
                    ``(A) January 1, 2035; and
                    ``(B) the date on which uranium enriched up to, but 
                not equal to, 20 weight percent can be obtained in the 
                commercial market from domestic suppliers.
    ``(c) Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report that describes 
        actions proposed to be carried out by the Secretary--
                    ``(A) under the program under subsection (b); or
                    ``(B) otherwise to enable the commercial use of 
                high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
            ``(2) Coordination and stakeholder input.--In developing 
        the report under this subsection, the Secretary shall seek 
        input from--
                    ``(A) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
                    ``(B) the National Laboratories;
                    ``(C) institutions of higher education;
                    ``(D) producers of medical isotopes;
                    ``(E) a diverse group of entities operating in the 
                nuclear energy industry; and
                    ``(F) a diverse group of technology developers.
            ``(3) Cost and schedule estimates.--The report under this 
        subsection shall include estimated costs, budgets, and 
        timeframes for enabling the use of high-assay, low-enriched 
        uranium.
            ``(4) Required evaluations.--The report under this 
        subsection shall evaluate--
                    ``(A) the costs and actions required to establish 
                and carry out the program under subsection (b), 
                including with respect to--
                            ``(i) proposed preliminary terms for the 
                        sale, resale, transfer, and leasing of high-
                        assay, low-enriched uranium (including 
                        guidelines defining the roles and 
                        responsibilities between the Department and the 
                        purchaser, transfer recipient, or lessee); and
                            ``(ii) the potential to coordinate with 
                        purchasers, transfer recipients, and lessees 
                        regarding--
                                    ``(I) fuel fabrication; and
                                    ``(II) fuel transport;
                    ``(B) the potential sources and fuel forms 
                available to provide uranium for the program under 
                subsection (b);
                    ``(C) options to coordinate the program under 
                subsection (b) with the operation of the versatile 
                reactor-based fast neutron source under section 
                955(c)(1);
                    ``(D) the ability of the domestic uranium market to 
                provide materials for advanced nuclear reactor fuel; 
                and
                    ``(E) any associated legal, regulatory, and policy 
                issues that should be addressed to enable--
                            ``(i) the program under subsection (b); and
                            ``(ii) the establishment of a domestic 
                        industry capable of providing high-assay, low-
                        enriched uranium for commercial and 
                        noncommercial purposes, including with respect 
                        to the needs of--
                                    ``(I) the Department;
                                    ``(II) the Department of Defense; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) the National Nuclear 
                                Security Administration.
    ``(d) HALEU Transportation Package Research Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish a 
        research, development, and demonstration program under which 
        the Secretary shall provide financial assistance, on a 
        competitive basis, to establish the capability to transport 
        high-assay, low-enriched uranium.
            ``(2) Requirement.--The focus of the program under this 
        subsection shall be to establish 1 or more HALEU transportation 
        packages that can be certified by the Nuclear Regulatory 
        Commission to transport high-assay, low-enriched uranium to the 
        various facilities involved in producing or using nuclear fuel 
        containing high-assay, low-enriched uranium, such as--
                    ``(A) enrichment facilities;
                    ``(B) fuel processing facilities;
                    ``(C) fuel fabrication facilities; and
                    ``(D) nuclear reactors.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58; 119 Stat. 594; 132 Stat. 3160) (as 
amended by section 6702(b)) is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 959B the following:

``Sec. 960. Advanced nuclear fuel security program.''.

SEC. 6705. UNIVERSITY NUCLEAR LEADERSHIP PROGRAM.

    Section 313 of the Energy and Water Development and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2009 (42 U.S.C. 16274a) is amended to read 
as follows:

``SEC. 313. UNIVERSITY NUCLEAR LEADERSHIP PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term `advanced nuclear 
        reactor' means--
                    ``(A) a nuclear fission reactor, including a 
                prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 
                of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor 
                regulations)), with significant improvements compared 
                to the most recent generation of fission reactors, 
                including improvements such as--
                            ``(i) additional inherent safety features;
                            ``(ii) lower waste yields;
                            ``(iii) improved fuel performance;
                            ``(iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel 
                        cooling;
                            ``(v) enhanced reliability;
                            ``(vi) increased proliferation resistance;
                            ``(vii) increased thermal efficiency;
                            ``(viii) reduced consumption of cooling 
                        water;
                            ``(ix) the ability to integrate into 
                        electric applications and nonelectric 
                        applications;
                            ``(x) modular sizes to allow for deployment 
                        that corresponds with the demand for 
                        electricity; or
                            ``(xi) operational flexibility to respond 
                        to changes in demand for electricity and to 
                        complement integration with intermittent 
                        renewable energy; and
                    ``(B) a fusion reactor.
            ``(2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            ``(3) Program.--The term `Program' means the University 
        Nuclear Leadership Program established under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Establishment.--The Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of 
the National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Chairman of the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall jointly establish a program, to be 
known as the `University Nuclear Leadership Program'.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        amounts made available to carry out the Program shall be used 
        to provide financial assistance for scholarships, fellowships, 
        and research and development projects at institutions of higher 
        education in areas relevant to the programmatic mission of the 
        applicable Federal agency, with an emphasis on providing the 
        financial assistance with respect to research, development, 
        demonstration, and deployment activities for technologies 
        relevant to advanced nuclear reactors, including relevant fuel 
        cycle technologies.
            ``(2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), amounts 
        made available to carry out the Program may be used to provide 
        financial assistance for a scholarship, fellowship, or 
        multiyear research and development project that does not align 
        directly with a programmatic mission of the applicable Federal 
        agency providing the financial assistance, if the activity for 
        which assistance is provided would facilitate the maintenance 
        of the discipline of nuclear science or engineering.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out the Program for fiscal year 2021 and each 
fiscal year thereafter--
            ``(1) $30,000,000 to the Secretary of Energy; and
            ``(2) $15,000,000 to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.''.

SEC. 6706. ADJUSTING STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE MANDATED DRAWDOWNS.

    (a) Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015.--Section 403(a) of the 
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; Public Law 114-74) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (6);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs 
        (6) and (7), respectively; and
            (3) in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``10,000,000'' and inserting ``20,000,000''.
    (b) Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act.--Section 
32204(a)(1) of the FAST Act (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; Public Law 114-94) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking ``16,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``11,000,000''; and
                    (B) by striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2022''; 
                and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``25,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``30,000,000''.
    (c) America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018.--Section 3009(a)(1) 
of America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; 
Public Law 115-270) is amended by striking ``2028'' and inserting 
``2030.''
    (d) Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018.--Section 30204(a)(1) of the 
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note; Public Law 115-123) 
is amended by striking subparagraphs (A) through (C) and inserting the 
following:
                    ``(A) 7,500,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal 
                year 2022;
                    ``(B) 7,500,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal 
                year 2024;
                    ``(C) 15,000,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal 
                year 2025;
                    ``(D) 30,000,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal 
                year 2029; and
                    ``(E) 40,000,000 barrels of crude oil during fiscal 
                year 2030.''.
    (e) Reconciliation on the Budget for 2018.--Section 20003(a)(1) of 
Public Law 115-97 (42 U.S.C. 6241 note) is amended by striking ``the 
period of fiscal years 2026 through 2027'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2030''.

      TITLE LXXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

               Subtitle A--Military Construction Program

SEC. 7801. MODIFICATION TO AUTHORITY FOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS 
              FOR CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.

    Section 2809(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and annually 
        thereafter,'' after ``this Act,''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the report'' 
                and inserting ``a report''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``in which 
                the project is included'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 7802. MODIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION OF GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC 
              DETERRENT LAUNCH FACILITIES AND LAUNCH CENTERS FOR THE 
              AIR FORCE.

    Subsection (e) of section 2802 is deemed to read as follows:
    ``(e) Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the amount authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2021 as specified in the funding 
        table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
        expend not more than $15,000,000 for the purposes of planning 
        and design to support the projects described in subsection (a).
            ``(2) Increase.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
        for fiscal year 2021 for military construction for the Air 
        Force is hereby increased by $15,000,000, with the amount of 
        the increase to be designated to Air Force, Unspecified 
        Worldwide Locations, Planning and Design.
            ``(3) Offset.--The amount authorized to be appropriated for 
        fiscal year 2021 for operation and maintenance for the Army is 
        hereby reduced by $15,000,000, with the amount of the reduction 
        to be derived from subactivity group 421, Servicewide 
        Transportation.''.

                  Subtitle B--Military Family Housing

SEC. 7821. INCLUSION OF ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE METRICS IN ANNUAL 
              PUBLICATION ON USE OF INCENTIVE FEES FOR PRIVATIZED 
              MILITARY HOUSING PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2891c of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and inserting the 
        following: ``Transparency regarding finances and performance 
        metrics'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting 
                ``Performance Metrics and'' before ``Use of Incentive 
                Fees'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``publicly 
                accessible website, information'' and inserting 
                ``publicly accessible website--
            ``(A) for each contract for the provision or management of 
        housing units--
                    ``(i) an assessment of indicators underlying the 
                performance metrics under such contract to ensure such 
                indicators adequately measure the condition and quality 
                of the home or homes covered by the contract, 
                including--
                            ``(I) resident satisfaction;
                            ``(II) maintenance management;
                            ``(III) project safety; and
                            ``(IV) financial management; and
                    ``(ii) a detailed description of each indicator 
                assessed under subparagraph (A), including an 
                indication of--
                            ``(I) the limitations of available survey 
                        data;
                            ``(II) how resident satisfaction and 
                        maintenance management is calculated; and
                            ``(III) whether data is missing; and
            ``(B) information''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``paragraph (1)'' 
                and inserting ``paragraph (1)(B)''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter V of chapter 169 of such title is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 2891c and inserting the following new item:

``2891c. Transparency regarding finances and performance metrics.''.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

SEC. 7861. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERAGENCY COMMITTEES ON JOINT USE OF 
              CERTAIN LAND WITHDRAWN FROM APPROPRIATION UNDER PUBLIC 
              LAND LAWS.

    (a) Interagency Executive Committee on Joint Use by Department of 
the Navy and Department of the Interior of Naval Air Station Fallon 
Ranges.--Section 3011(a) of the Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 
(Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 885) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(5) Intergovernmental executive committee.--
                    ``(A) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Navy and 
                the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly establish, 
                by memorandum of understanding, an intergovernmental 
                executive committee (referred to in this paragraph as 
                the `executive committee'), for the purpose of 
                exchanging views, information, and advice relating to 
                the management of the natural and cultural resources of 
                the land described in paragraph (2).
                    ``(B) Memorandum of understanding.--The memorandum 
                of understanding entered into under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include--
                            ``(i) a description of the officials and 
                        other individuals to be invited to participate 
                        as members in the executive committee under 
                        subparagraph (C);
                            ``(ii) a description of the duties of the 
                        Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the 
                        executive committee; and
                            ``(iii) subject to subparagraphs (D) and 
                        (E), a procedure for--
                                    ``(I) creating a forum to carry out 
                                the purpose described in subparagraph 
                                (A);
                                    ``(II) rotating the Chairperson of 
                                the executive committee; and
                                    ``(III) scheduling regular meetings 
                                of the executive committee.
                    ``(C) Membership.--The executive committee shall be 
                comprised of--
                            ``(i) 1 representative of the Nevada 
                        Department of Wildlife;
                            ``(ii) 1 representative of the Nevada 
                        Department of Conservation and Natural 
                        Resources;
                            ``(iii) 1 county commissioner from each of 
                        Churchill, Lyon, Nye, Mineral, and Pershing 
                        Counties, Nevada;
                            ``(iv) 1 representative of each Indian 
                        tribe in the vicinity of the land described in 
                        paragraph (2); and
                            ``(v) not more than 3 members that the 
                        Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the 
                        Interior jointly determine would advance the 
                        goals and objectives of the executive 
                        committee.
                    ``(D) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--The 
                members of the executive committee shall elect from 
                among the members--
                            ``(i) 1 member to serve as Chairperson of 
                        the executive committee; and
                            ``(ii) 1 member to serve as Vice 
                        Chairperson of the executive committee.
                    ``(E) Meetings.--
                            ``(i) Frequency.--The executive committee 
                        shall meet not less frequently than 3 times 
                        each calendar year.
                            ``(ii) Location.--The location of the 
                        meetings of the executive committee shall 
                        rotate to facilitate ease of access for all 
                        members of the executive committee.
                            ``(iii) Public accessibility.--The meetings 
                        of the executive committee shall--
                                    ``(I) be open to the public; and
                                    ``(II) serve as a forum for the 
                                public to provide comments regarding 
                                the natural and cultural resources of 
                                the land described in paragraph (2).
                    ``(F) Conditions and terms.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Each member of the 
                        executive committee shall serve voluntarily and 
                        without compensation.
                            ``(ii) Term of appointment.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Except as 
                                provided in subclause (II)(bb), each 
                                member of the executive committee shall 
                                be appointed for a term of 4 years.
                                    ``(II) Original members.--Of the 
                                members initially appointed to the 
                                executive committee, the Secretary of 
                                the Navy and the Secretary of the 
                                Interior shall select--
                                            ``(aa) \1/2\ to serve for a 
                                        term of 4 years; and
                                            ``(bb) \1/2\ to serve for a 
                                        term of 2 years.
                            ``(iii) Reappointment and replacement.--The 
                        Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the 
                        Interior may reappoint or replace, as 
                        appropriate, a member of the executive 
                        committee if--
                                    ``(I) the term of the member has 
                                expired;
                                    ``(II) the member has resigned; or
                                    ``(III) the position held by the 
                                member has changed to the extent that 
                                the ability of the member to represent 
                                the group or entity that the member 
                                represents has been significantly 
                                affected.
                    ``(G) Liaisons.--The Secretary of the Navy and the 
                Secretary of the Interior shall each appoint 
                appropriate operational and land management personnel 
                of the Department of the Navy and the Department of the 
                Interior, respectively, to serve as liaisons to the 
                executive committee.''.
    (b) Joint Access and Use by Department of the Air Force and 
Department of the Interior of Nevada Test and Training Range and Desert 
National Wildlife Refuge.--
            (1) United states fish and wildlife service and department 
        of the air force coordination.--Section 3011(b)(5) of the 
        Military Lands Withdrawal Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-65; 113 
        Stat. 887) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(G) Interagency committee.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary of the 
                        Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force 
                        shall jointly establish an interagency 
                        committee (referred to in this subparagraph as 
                        the `interagency committee') to facilitate 
                        coordination, manage public access needs and 
                        requirements, and minimize potential conflict 
                        between the Department of the Interior and the 
                        Department of the Air Force with respect to 
                        joint operating areas within the Desert 
                        National Wildlife Refuge.
                            ``(ii) Membership.--The interagency 
                        committee shall include only the following 
                        members:
                                    ``(I) Representatives from the 
                                United States Fish and Wildlife 
                                Service.
                                    ``(II) Representatives from the 
                                Department of the Air Force.
                                    ``(III) The Project Leader of the 
                                Desert National Wildlife Refuge 
                                Complex.
                                    ``(IV) The Commander of the Nevada 
                                Test and Training Range, Nellis Air 
                                Force Base.
                            ``(iii) Report to congress.--The 
                        interagency committee shall biannually submit 
                        to the Committees on Armed Services, 
                        Environment and Public Works, and Energy and 
                        Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
                        Committees on Armed Services and Natural 
                        Resources of the House of Representatives, and 
                        make available publicly online, a report on the 
                        activities of the interagency committee.''.
            (2) Intergovernmental executive committee.--Such section is 
        further amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(H) Intergovernmental executive committee.--
                            ``(i) Establishment.--The Secretary of the 
                        Interior and the Secretary of the Air Force 
                        shall jointly establish, by memorandum of 
                        understanding, an intergovernmental executive 
                        committee (referred to in this subparagraph as 
                        the `executive committee') in accordance with 
                        this subparagraph.
                            ``(ii) Purpose.--The executive committee 
                        shall be established for the purposes of--
                                    ``(I) exchanging views, 
                                information, and advice relating to the 
                                management of the natural and cultural 
                                resources of the lands withdrawn and 
                                reserved by this section; and
                                    ``(II) discussing and making 
                                recommendations to the interagency 
                                committee established under 
                                subparagraph (G) with respect to public 
                                access needs and requirements.
                            ``(iii) Composition.--The executive 
                        committee shall comprise the following members:
                                    ``(I) Federal agencies.--The 
                                Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force shall each 
                                appoint 1 representative from an 
                                interested Federal agency.
                                    ``(II) State government.--The 
                                Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force shall 
                                jointly invite 1 representative of the 
                                Nevada Department of Wildlife.
                                    ``(III) Local governments.--The 
                                Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force shall 
                                jointly invite 1 county commissioner of 
                                each of Clark, Nye, and Lincoln 
                                Counties, Nevada.
                                    ``(IV) Tribal governments.--The 
                                Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force shall 
                                jointly invite 1 representative of each 
                                Indian tribe in the vicinity of the 
                                portions of the joint use area of the 
                                Desert National Wildlife Refuge where 
                                the Secretary of the Interior exercises 
                                primary jurisdiction.
                                    ``(V) Public.--The Secretary of the 
                                Interior and the Secretary of the Air 
                                Force shall jointly invite not more 
                                than 3 private individuals who the 
                                Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force jointly 
                                determine would further the goals and 
                                objectives of the executive committee.
                                    ``(VI) Additional members.--The 
                                Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force may 
                                designate such additional members as 
                                the Secretary of the Interior and the 
                                Secretary of the Air Force jointly 
                                determine to be appropriate.
                            ``(iv) Operation.--The executive committee 
                        shall operate in accordance with the terms set 
                        forth in the memorandum of understanding under 
                        clause (i), which shall specify the officials 
                        or other individuals to be invited to 
                        participate in the executive committee in 
                        accordance with clause (iii).
                            ``(v) Procedures.--Subject to clauses (vi) 
                        and (vii), the memorandum of understanding 
                        under clause (i) shall establish procedures 
                        for--
                                    ``(I) creating a forum for carrying 
                                out the purpose described in clause 
                                (ii);
                                    ``(II) rotating the Chairperson of 
                                the executive committee; and
                                    ``(III) scheduling regular 
                                meetings.
                            ``(vi) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The members of 
                                the executive committee shall elect 
                                from among the members--
                                            ``(aa) 1 member to serve as 
                                        the Chairperson of the 
                                        executive committee; and
                                            ``(bb) 1 member to serve as 
                                        the Vice Chairperson of the 
                                        executive committee.
                                    ``(II) Duties.--The duties of each 
                                of the Chairperson and the Vice 
                                Chairperson shall be included in the 
                                memorandum of understanding under 
                                clause (i).
                            ``(vii) Meetings.--
                                    ``(I) Frequency.--The executive 
                                committee shall meet not less 
                                frequently than 3 times each calendar 
                                year.
                                    ``(II) Meeting locations.--
                                Locations of meetings of the executive 
                                committee shall rotate to facilitate 
                                ease of access for all executive 
                                committee members.
                                    ``(III) Public accessibility.--
                                Meetings of the executive committee 
                                shall--
                                            ``(aa) be open to the 
                                        public; and
                                            ``(bb) provide a forum for 
                                        the public to provide comment 
                                        regarding the management of, 
                                        and public access to, the 
                                        Nevada Test and Training Range 
                                        and the Desert National 
                                        Wildlife Refuge.
                            ``(viii) Conditions and terms of 
                        appointment.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Each member of 
                                the executive committee shall serve 
                                voluntarily and without compensation.
                                    ``(II) Term of appointment.--
                                            ``(aa) In general.--Each 
                                        member of the executive 
                                        committee shall be appointed 
                                        for a term of 4 years.
                                            ``(bb) Original members.--
                                        Notwithstanding item (aa), the 
                                        Secretary of the Interior and 
                                        the Secretary of the Air Force 
                                        shall select--

                                                    ``(AA) \1/2\ of the 
                                                original members of the 
                                                executive committee to 
                                                serve for a term of 4 
                                                years; and

                                                    ``(BB) \1/2\ of the 
                                                original members of the 
                                                executive committee to 
                                                serve for a term of 2 
                                                years.

                                    ``(III) Reappointment and 
                                replacement.--The Secretary of the 
                                Interior and the Secretary of the Air 
                                Force may reappoint or replace a member 
                                of the executive committee if--
                                            ``(aa) the term of the 
                                        member has expired;
                                            ``(bb) the member has 
                                        resigned; or
                                            ``(cc) the position held by 
                                        the member has changed to the 
                                        extent that the ability of the 
                                        member to represent the group 
                                        or entity that the member 
                                        represents has been 
                                        significantly affected.
                            ``(ix) Liaisons.--The Secretary of the Air 
                        Force and the Secretary of the Interior shall 
                        each appoint appropriate operational and land 
                        management personnel of the Department of the 
                        Air Force and the Department of the Interior, 
                        respectively, to participate in, and serve as 
                        liaisons to, the executive committee.''.

SEC. 7862. LEASE EXTENSION FOR BRYAN MULTI-SPORTS COMPLEX, WAYNE 
              COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Air Force may extend to the 
City of Goldsboro the existing lease of the approximately 62-acre Bryan 
Multi-Sports Complex located in Wayne County, North Carolina, for the 
purpose of operating a sports and recreation facility for the benefit 
of both the Air Force and the community.
    (b) Duration.--At the option of the Secretary of the Air Force, the 
lease entered into under this section may be extended for up to 30 
additional years with a total lease period not to exceed 50 years.
    (c) Payments Under the Lease.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
waive the requirement under section 2667(b)(4) of title 10, United 
States Code, with respect to the lease entered into under this section 
if the Secretary determines that the lease enhances the quality of life 
of members of the Armed Forces.
    (d) Sense of Senate.--It is the Sense of the Senate regarding the 
conditions governing the extension of the current lease for the Bryan 
Multi-Sports Complex that--
            (1) the Senate has determined it is in the best interest of 
        the community and the Air Force to extend the lease at no cost;
            (2) the current lease allowed the Air Force to close their 
        sports field on Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base and resulted in 
        a savings of $15,000 per year in utilities and grounds 
        maintenance costs;
            (3) the current sports complex reduces force protection 
        vulnerability now that the sports complex is located outside 
        the fence line of the installation; and
            (4) the facility has improved the quality of life for 
        military families stationed at Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base 
        by allowing members of the Armed Forces and their families to 
        have access to world class sports facilities located adjacent 
        to the installation and on-base privatized housing with easy 
        access by junior enlisted members residing in the dorms.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 7881. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON RELOCATION OF JOINT SPECTRUM CENTER.

    It is the Sense of Congress that Congress strongly recommends that 
the Director of the Defense Information Systems Agency begin the 
process for the relocation of the Joint Spectrum Center of the 
Department of Defense to the building at Fort Meade that is allocated 
for such center.

      TITLE LXXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 8159. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF LIMITATIONS ON IMPORTATION OF 
              URANIUM FROM RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    Section 3158 and the amendments made by that section shall have no 
force or effect.

    DIVISION F--INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021

SEC. 9001. SHORT TITLE.

    This division may be cited as the ``Intelligence Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2021''.

SEC. 9002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this division:
            (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
        ``congressional intelligence committees'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3003).
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given such term in such section.

                   TITLE XCI--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 9101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2021 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Security Agency.
            (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
        and the Department of the Air Force.
            (7) The Coast Guard.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The Department of the Treasury.
            (10) The Department of Energy.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
            (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (16) The Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 9102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts.--The amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under section 9101 for the conduct of the intelligence 
activities of the elements listed in paragraphs (1) through (16) of 
section 9101, are those specified in the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations prepared to accompany this division.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        subsection (a), or of appropriate portions of such Schedule, 
        within the executive branch of the Federal Government.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedule except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 9103. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2021 the sum of 
$731,200,000.
    (b) Classified Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to 
amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account for 
fiscal year 2021 such additional amounts as are specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 9102(a).

   TITLE XCII--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY 
                                 SYSTEM

SEC. 9201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for fiscal year 
2021.

              TITLE XCIII--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MATTERS

           Subtitle A--General Intelligence Community Matters

SEC. 9301. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this division shall not be 
deemed to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence 
activity which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the 
laws of the United States.

SEC. 9302. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
              LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this division for salary, pay, 
retirement, and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased 
by such additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for 
increases in such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 9303. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF 
              NATIONAL MANAGER FOR NATIONAL SECURITY TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
              AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY.

    In carrying out the authorities and responsibilities of the 
National Manager for National Security Telecommunications and 
Information Systems Security under National Security Directive 42 
(signed by the President on July 5, 1990), the National Manager shall 
not supervise, oversee, or execute, either directly or indirectly, any 
aspect of the National Intelligence Program.

SEC. 9304. CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS PLANS FOR CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF THE 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY IN THE CASE OF A NATIONAL 
              EMERGENCY.

    (a) Definition of Covered National Emergency.--In this section, the 
term ``covered national emergency'' means the following:
            (1) A major disaster declared by the President under 
        section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
        Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170).
            (2) An emergency declared by the President under section 
        501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5191).
            (3) A national emergency declared by the President under 
        the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
            (4) A public health emergency declared under section 319 of 
        the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d).
    (b) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, the 
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the 
National Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the Defense 
Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security Agency, and 
the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency shall each 
establish continuity of operations plans for use in the case of covered 
national emergencies for the element of the intelligence community 
concerned.
    (c) Submission to Congress.--
            (1) Director of national intelligence and director of the 
        central intelligence agency.--Not later than 7 days after the 
        date on which a covered national emergency is declared, the 
        Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the 
        Central Intelligence Agency shall each submit to the 
        congressional intelligence committees the plan established 
        under subsection (b) for that emergency for the element of the 
        intelligence community concerned.
            (2) Director of national reconnaissance office, director of 
        defense intelligence agency, director of national security 
        agency, and director of national geospatial-intelligence 
        agency.--Not later than 7 days after the date on which a 
        covered national emergency is declared, the Director of the 
        National Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security 
        Agency, and the Director of the National Geospatial-
        Intelligence Agency shall each submit the plan established 
        under subsection (b) for that emergency for the element of the 
        intelligence community concerned to the following:
                    (A) The congressional intelligence committees.
                    (B) The Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
                    (C) The Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (d) Updates.--During a covered national emergency, the Director of 
National Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, 
the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office, the Director of the 
Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Security 
Agency, and the Director of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency 
shall each submit any updates to the plans submitted under subsection 
(c)--
            (1) in accordance with that subsection; and
            (2) in a timely manner consistent with section 501 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091).

SEC. 9305. APPLICATION OF EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE LEVEL III TO POSITION OF 
              DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.

    Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``Director of the National Reconnaissance Office.''.

SEC. 9306. NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY.

    (a) In General.--Title X of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3191 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

             ``Subtitle D--National Intelligence University

``SEC. 1031. TRANSFER DATE.

    ``In this subtitle, the term `transfer date' means the date on 
which the National Intelligence University is transferred from the 
Defense Intelligence Agency to the Director of National Intelligence 
under section 5324(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92).

``SEC. 1032. DEGREE-GRANTING AUTHORITY.

    ``(a) In General.--Beginning on the transfer date, under 
regulations prescribed by the Director of National Intelligence, the 
President of the National Intelligence University may, upon the 
recommendation of the faculty of the University, confer appropriate 
degrees upon graduates who meet the degree requirements.
    ``(b) Limitation.--A degree may not be conferred under this section 
unless--
            ``(1) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval 
        of the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing 
        Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and
            ``(2) the University is accredited by the appropriate 
        academic accrediting agency or organization to award the 
        degree, as determined by the Secretary of Education.
    ``(c) Congressional Notification Requirements.--
            ``(1) Actions on nonaccreditation.--Beginning on the 
        transfer date, the Director shall promptly--
                    ``(A) notify the congressional intelligence 
                committees of any action by the Middle States 
                Commission on Higher Education, or other appropriate 
                academic accrediting agency or organization, to not 
                accredit the University to award any new or existing 
                degree; and
                    ``(B) submit to such committees a report containing 
                an explanation of any such action.
            ``(2) Modification or redesignation of degree-granting 
        authority.--Beginning on the transfer date, upon any 
        modification or redesignation of existing degree-granting 
        authority, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
        intelligence committees a report containing--
                    ``(A) the rationale for the proposed modification 
                or redesignation; and
                    ``(B) any subsequent recommendation of the 
                Secretary of Education with respect to the proposed 
                modification or redesignation.

``SEC. 1033. FACULTY MEMBERS; EMPLOYMENT AND COMPENSATION.

    ``(a) Authority of Director.--Beginning on the transfer date, the 
Director of National Intelligence may employ as many professors, 
instructors, and lecturers at the National Intelligence University as 
the Director considers necessary.
    ``(b) Compensation of Faculty Members.--The compensation of persons 
employed under this section shall be as prescribed by the Director.
    ``(c) Compensation Plan.--The Director shall provide each person 
employed as a professor, instructor, or lecturer at the University on 
the transfer date an opportunity to elect to be paid under the 
compensation plan in effect on the day before the transfer date (with 
no reduction in pay) or under the authority of this section.

``SEC. 1034. ACCEPTANCE OF FACULTY RESEARCH GRANTS.

    ``The Director of National Intelligence may authorize the President 
of the National Intelligence University to accept qualifying research 
grants in the same manner and to the same degree as the President of 
the National Defense University under section 2165(e) of title 10, 
United States Code.

``SEC. 1035. CONTINUED APPLICABILITY OF THE FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
              ACT TO THE BOARD OF VISITORS.

    ``The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall continue 
to apply to the Board of Visitors of the National Intelligence 
University on and after the transfer date.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 5324 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(C), by striking ``subsection 
        (e)(2)'' and inserting ``section 1032(b) of the National 
        Security Act of 1947'';
            (2) by striking subsections (e) and (f); and
            (3) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections 
        (e) and (f), respectively.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of the National 
Security Act of 1947 is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 1024 the following:

             ``Subtitle D--National Intelligence University

``Sec. 1031. Transfer date.
``Sec. 1032. Degree-granting authority.
``Sec. 1033. Faculty members; employment and compensation.
``Sec. 1034. Acceptance of faculty research grants.
``Sec. 1035. Continued applicability of the Federal Advisory Committee 
                            Act to the Board of Visitors.''.

SEC. 9307. REQUIRING FACILITATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OF SOCIAL MEDIA DATA 
              AND THREAT ANALYSIS CENTER.

    (a) Requirement to Facilitate Establishment.--Subsection (c)(1) of 
section 5323 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended, by striking ``may'' and inserting 
``shall''.
    (b) Deadline to Facilitate Establishment.--Such subsection is 
further amended by striking ``The Director'' and inserting ``Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, the Director''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Reporting.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking 
                ``If the Director'' and all that follows through ``the 
                Center, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``180 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
                ``180 days after the date of the enactment of the 
                Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021''.
            (2) Funding.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended by 
        striking ``fiscal year 2020 and 2021'' and inserting ``fiscal 
        year 2021 and 2022''.
            (3) Clerical.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Authority'' and inserting ``Requirement''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), in the paragraph heading, by 
                striking ``Authority'' and inserting ``Requirement''.

SEC. 9308. DATA COLLECTION ON ATTRITION IN INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Standards for Data Collection.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall establish standards for collecting data 
        relating to attrition in the intelligence community workforce 
        across demographics, specialities, and length of service.
            (2) Inclusion of certain candidates.--The Director shall 
        include, in the standards established under paragraph (1), 
        standards for collecting data from candidates who accepted 
        conditional offers of employment but chose to withdraw from the 
        hiring process before entering into service, including data 
        with respect to the reasons such candidates chose to withdraw.
    (b) Collection of Data.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, each element of the intelligence community 
shall begin collecting data on workforce and candidate attrition in 
accordance with the standards established under subsection (a).
    (c) Annual Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on 
workforce and candidate attrition in the intelligence community that 
includes--
            (1) the findings of the Director based on the data 
        collected under subsection (b);
            (2) recommendations for addressing any issues identified in 
        those findings; and
            (3) an assessment of timeliness in processing hiring 
        applications of individuals previously employed by an element 
        of the intelligence community, consistent with the Trusted 
        Workforce 2.0 initiative sponsored by the Security Clearance, 
        Suitability, and Credentialing Performance Accountability 
        Council.

SEC. 9309. LIMITATION ON DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROGRAM 
              MANAGEMENT OF INFORMATION-SHARING ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 1016(b) of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (6 U.S.C. 485(b)), as amended by 
section 6402(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter before subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``Director of National Intelligence'' and 
        inserting ``President'';
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Director of National 
        Intelligence'' both places it appears and inserting 
        ``President''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Delegation.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                President may delegate responsibility for carrying out 
                this subsection.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--The President may not delegate 
                responsibility for carrying out this subsection to the 
                Director of National Intelligence.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2020.

SEC. 9310. IMPROVEMENTS TO PROVISIONS RELATING TO INTELLIGENCE 
              COMMUNITY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ENVIRONMENT.

    Section 6312 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) is amended by striking subsections (e) 
through (i) and inserting the following:
    ``(e) Long-term Roadmap.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2021, the Director of National Intelligence shall develop and maintain 
a long-term roadmap for the intelligence community information 
technology environment.
    ``(f) Business Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, 
the Director of National Intelligence shall develop and maintain a 
business plan to implement the long-term roadmap required by subsection 
(e).''.

SEC. 9311. REQUIREMENTS AND AUTHORITIES FOR DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL 
              INTELLIGENCE AGENCY TO IMPROVE EDUCATION IN SCIENCE, 
              TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, ARTS, AND MATHEMATICS.

    The Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3501 et 
seq.) is amended by adding the following:

``SEC. 24. IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATION IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
              ENGINEERING, ARTS, AND MATHEMATICS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' includes 
        a department or agency of the Federal Government, a State, a 
        political subdivision of a State, an individual, and a not-for-
        profit or other organization in the private sector.
            ``(2) Educational institution.--The term `educational 
        institution' includes any public or private elementary school 
        or secondary school, institution of higher education, college, 
        university, or any other profit or nonprofit institution that 
        is dedicated to improving science, technology, engineering, the 
        arts, mathematics, business, law, medicine, or other fields 
        that promote development and education relating to science, 
        technology, engineering, the arts, or mathematics.
            ``(3) State.--The term `State' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any 
        other territory or possession of the United States.
    ``(b) Requirements.--The Director shall, on a continuing basis--
            ``(1) identify actions that the Director may take to 
        improve education in the scientific, technology, engineering, 
        arts, and mathematics (known as `STEAM') skills necessary to 
        meet the long-term national security needs of the United States 
        for personnel proficient in such skills; and
            ``(2) establish and conduct programs to carry out such 
        actions.
    ``(c) Authorities.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director, in support of educational 
        programs in science, technology, engineering, the arts, and 
        mathematics, may--
                    ``(A) award grants to eligible entities;
                    ``(B) provide cash awards and other items to 
                eligible entities;
                    ``(C) accept voluntary services from eligible 
                entities;
                    ``(D) support national competition judging, other 
                educational event activities, and associated award 
                ceremonies in connection with such educational 
                programs; and
                    ``(E) enter into one or more education partnership 
                agreements with educational institutions in the United 
                States for the purpose of encouraging and enhancing 
                study in science, technology, engineering, the arts, 
                and mathematics disciplines at all levels of education.
            ``(2) Education partnership agreements.--
                    ``(A) Nature of assistance provided.--Under an 
                education partnership agreement entered into with an 
                educational institution under paragraph (1)(E), the 
                Director may provide assistance to the educational 
                institution by--
                            ``(i) loaning equipment to the educational 
                        institution for any purpose and duration in 
                        support of such agreement that the Director 
                        considers appropriate;
                            ``(ii) making personnel available to teach 
                        science courses or to assist in the development 
                        of science courses and materials for the 
                        educational institution;
                            ``(iii) providing sabbatical opportunities 
                        for faculty and internship opportunities for 
                        students;
                            ``(iv) involving faculty and students of 
                        the educational institution in Agency projects, 
                        including research and technology transfer or 
                        transition projects;
                            ``(v) cooperating with the educational 
                        institution in developing a program under which 
                        students may be given academic credit for work 
                        on Agency projects, including research and 
                        technology transfer for transition projects; 
                        and
                            ``(vi) providing academic and career advice 
                        and assistance to students of the educational 
                        institution.
                    ``(B) Priorities.--In entering into education 
                partnership agreements under paragraph (1)(E), the 
                Director shall prioritize entering into education 
                partnership agreements with the following:
                            ``(i) Historically Black colleges and 
                        universities and other minority-serving 
                        institutions, as described in section 371(a) of 
                        the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
                        1067q(a)).
                            ``(ii) Educational institutions serving 
                        women, members of minority groups, and other 
                        groups of individuals who traditionally are 
                        involved in the science, technology, 
                        engineering, arts, and mathematics professions 
                        in disproportionately low numbers.
    ``(d) Designation of Advisor.--The Director shall designate one or 
more individuals within the Agency to advise and assist the Director 
regarding matters relating to science, technology, engineering, the 
arts, and mathematics education and training.''.

    Subtitle B--Reports and Assessments Pertaining to Intelligence 
                               Community

SEC. 9321. ASSESSMENT BY THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES 
              ON EFFORTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO IDENTIFY AND MITIGATE RISKS 
              POSED TO THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND THE DEPARTMENT BY 
              THE USE OF DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER GENETIC TESTING BY THE 
              GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    (a) Assessment Required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
States shall assess the efforts of the intelligence community and the 
Department of Defense to identify and mitigate the risks posed to the 
intelligence community and the Department by the use of direct-to-
consumer genetic testing by the Government of the People's Republic of 
China.
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) Definition of united states direct-to-consumer genetic 
        testing company.--In this subsection, the term ``United States 
        direct-to-consumer genetic testing company'' means a private 
        entity that--
                    (A) carries out direct-to-consumer genetic testing; 
                and
                    (B) is organized under the laws of the United 
                States or any jurisdiction within the United States.
            (2) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit 
        to Congress, including the congressional intelligence 
        committees, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and 
        the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives, a report on the assessment required by 
        subsection (a).
            (3) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (2) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of key national security risks 
                and vulnerabilities associated with direct-to-consumer 
                genetic testing, including--
                            (i) how the Government of the People's 
                        Republic of China may be using data provided by 
                        personnel of the intelligence community and the 
                        Department through direct-to-consumer genetic 
                        tests; and
                            (ii) how ubiquitous technical surveillance 
                        may amplify those risks.
                    (B) An assessment of the extent to which the 
                intelligence community and the Department have 
                identified risks and vulnerabilities posed by direct-
                to-consumer genetic testing and have sought to mitigate 
                such risks and vulnerabilities, or have plans for such 
                mitigation, including the extent to which the 
                intelligence community has determined--
                            (i) in which United States direct-to-
                        consumer genetic testing companies the 
                        Government of the People's Republic of China or 
                        entities owned or controlled by the Government 
                        of the People's Republic of China have an 
                        ownership interest; and
                            (ii) which United States direct-to-consumer 
                        genetic testing companies may have sold data to 
                        the Government of the People's Republic of 
                        China or entities owned or controlled by the 
                        Government of the People's Republic of China.
                    (C) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General 
                may have for action by the intelligence community and 
                the Department to improve the identification and 
                mitigation of risks and vulnerabilities posed by the 
                use of direct-to-consumer genetic testing by the 
                Government of the People's Republic of China.
            (4) Form.--The report required by paragraph (2) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (c) Cooperation.--The heads of relevant elements of the 
intelligence community and components of the Department shall--
            (1) fully cooperate with the Comptroller General in 
        conducting the assessment required by subsection (a); and
            (2) provide any information and data required by the 
        Comptroller General to conduct the assessment.

SEC. 9322. REPORT ON USE BY INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OF HIRING 
              FLEXIBILITIES AND EXPEDITED HUMAN RESOURCES PRACTICES TO 
              ASSURE QUALITY AND DIVERSITY IN THE WORKFORCE OF THE 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on how 
elements of the intelligence community are exercising hiring 
flexibilities and expedited human resources practices afforded under 
section 3326 of title 5, United States Code, and subpart D of part 315 
of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulation, to 
assure quality and diversity in the workforce of the intelligence 
community.
    (b) Obstacles.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include identification of any obstacles encountered by the intelligence 
community in exercising the authorities described in such subsection.

SEC. 9323. REPORT ON SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE PRIORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on signals 
intelligence priorities and requirements subject to Presidential Policy 
Directive 28.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall cover 
the following:
            (1) The implementation of the annual process for advising 
        the Director on signals intelligence priorities and 
        requirements described in section 3 of Presidential Policy 
        Directive 28.
            (2) The signals intelligence priorities and requirements as 
        of the most recent annual process.
            (3) The application of such priorities and requirements to 
        the signals intelligence collection efforts of the intelligence 
        community.
            (4) The contents of the classified annex referenced in 
        section 3 of Presidential Policy Directive 28.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 9324. ASSESSMENT OF DEMAND FOR STUDENT LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM 
              BENEFIT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the head of each element of the intelligence 
community shall--
            (1) calculate the number of personnel of that element who 
        qualify for a student loan repayment program benefit;
            (2) compare the number calculated under paragraph (1) to 
        the number of personnel who apply for such a benefit;
            (3) provide recommendations for how to structure such a 
        program to optimize participation and enhance the effectiveness 
        of the benefit as a retention tool, including with respect to 
        the amount of the benefit offered and the length of time an 
        employee receiving a benefit is required to serve under a 
        continuing service agreement; and
            (4) identify any shortfall in funds or authorities needed 
        to provide such a benefit.
    (b) Inclusion in Fiscal Year 2022 Budget Submission.--The Director 
of National Intelligence shall include in the budget justification 
materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget for the 
intelligence community for fiscal year 2022 (as submitted with the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code) a report on the findings of the elements of the 
intelligence community under subsection (a).

SEC. 9325. ASSESSMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY DEMAND FOR CHILD CARE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
coordination with the heads of the elements of the intelligence 
community specified in subsection (b), shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report that includes--
            (1) a calculation of the total annual demand for child care 
        by employees of such elements, at or near the workplaces of 
        such employees, including a calculation of the demand for early 
        morning and evening child care;
            (2) an identification of any shortfall between the demand 
        calculated under paragraph (1) and the child care supported by 
        such elements as of the date of the report;
            (3) an assessment of options for addressing any such 
        shortfall, including options for providing child care at or 
        near the workplaces of employees of such elements;
            (4) an identification of the advantages, disadvantages, 
        security requirements, and costs associated with each such 
        option;
            (5) a plan to meet, by the date that is 5 years after the 
        date of the report--
                    (A) the demand calculated under paragraph (1); or
                    (B) an alternative standard established by the 
                Director for child care available to employees of such 
                elements; and
            (6) an assessment of needs of specific elements of the 
        intelligence community, including any Government-provided child 
        care that could be collocated with a workplace of employees of 
        such an element and any available child care providers in the 
        proximity of such a workplace.
    (b) Elements Specified.--The elements of the intelligence community 
specified in this subsection are the following:
            (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (2) The National Security Agency.
            (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (4) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (6) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

SEC. 9326. OPEN SOURCE INTELLIGENCE STRATEGIES AND PLANS FOR THE 
              INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Requirement for Survey and Evaluation of Customer Feedback.--
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the head of 
each element of the intelligence community, shall--
            (1) conduct a survey of the open source intelligence 
        requirements, goals, monetary and property investments, and 
        capabilities for each element of the intelligence community; 
        and
            (2) evaluate the usability and utility of the Open Source 
        Enterprise by soliciting customer feedback and evaluating such 
        feedback.
    (b) Requirement for Overall Strategy and for Intelligence 
Community, Plan for Improving Usability of Open Source Enterprise, and 
Risk Analysis of Creating Open Source Center.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director, in 
coordination with the head of each element of the intelligence 
community and using the findings of the Director with respect to the 
survey conducted under subsection (a), shall--
            (1) develop a strategy for open source intelligence 
        collection, analysis, and production that defines the 
        overarching goals, roles, responsibilities, and processes for 
        such collection, analysis, and production for the intelligence 
        community;
            (2) develop a plan for improving usability and utility of 
        the Open Source Enterprise based on the customer feedback 
        solicited under subsection (a)(2); and
            (3) conduct a risk and benefit analysis of creating an open 
        source center independent of any current intelligence community 
        element.
    (c) Requirement for Plan for Centralized Data Repository.--Not 
later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
using the findings of the Director with respect to the survey and 
evaluation conducted under subsection (a), the strategy and plan 
developed under subsection (b), and the risk and benefit analysis 
conducted under such subsection, the Director shall develop a plan for 
a centralized data repository of open source intelligence that enables 
all elements of the intelligence community--
            (1) to use such repository for their specific requirements; 
        and
            (2) to derive open source intelligence advantages.
    (d) Requirement for Cost-sharing Model.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act and using the findings of 
the Director with respect to the survey and evaluation conducted under 
subsection (a), the strategy and plan developed under subsection (b), 
the risk and benefit analysis conducted under such subsection, and the 
plan developed under subsection (c), the Director shall develop a cost-
sharing model that leverages the open source intelligence investments 
of each element of the intelligence community for the beneficial use of 
the entire intelligence community.
    (e) Congressional Briefing.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, 
the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director of the 
Defense Intelligence Agency, the Director of the National Geospatial-
Intelligence Agency, and the Director of the National Security Agency 
shall jointly brief the congressional intelligence committees on--
            (1) the strategy developed under paragraph (1) of 
        subsection (b);
            (2) the plan developed under paragraph (2) of such 
        subsection;
            (3) the plan developed under subsection (c); and
            (4) the cost-sharing model developed under subsection (d).

         TITLE XCIV--SECURITY CLEARANCES AND TRUSTED WORKFORCE

SEC. 9401. EXCLUSIVITY, CONSISTENCY, AND TRANSPARENCY IN SECURITY 
              CLEARANCE PROCEDURES, AND RIGHT TO APPEAL.

    (a) Exclusivity of Procedures.--Section 801 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(c) Exclusivity.--Except as provided in subsection (b) and 
subject to sections 801A and 801B, the procedures established pursuant 
to subsection (a) and promulgated and set forth under subpart A of 
title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, or successor regulations, shall 
be the exclusive procedures by which decisions about eligibility for 
access to classified information are governed.''.
    (b) Transparency.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(d) Publication.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this subsection, the President shall--
                    ``(A) publish in the Federal Register the 
                procedures established pursuant to subsection (a); or
                    ``(B) submit to Congress a certification that the 
                procedures currently in effect that govern access to 
                classified information as described in subsection (a)--
                            ``(i) are published in the Federal 
                        Register; and
                            ``(ii) comply with the requirements of 
                        subsection (a).
            ``(2) Updates.--Whenever the President makes a revision to 
        a procedure established pursuant to subsection (a), the 
        President shall publish such revision in the Federal Register 
        not later than 30 days before the date on which the revision 
        becomes effective.''.
    (c) Consistency.--
            (1) In general.--Title VIII of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
        section 801 the following:

``SEC. 801A. DECISIONS RELATING TO ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Agency.--The term `agency' has the meaning given the 
        term `Executive agency' in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            ``(2) Classified information.--The term `classified 
        information' includes sensitive compartmented information, 
        restricted data, restricted handling information, and other 
        compartmented information.
            ``(3) Eligibility for access to classified information.--
        The term `eligibility for access to classified information' has 
        the meaning given such term in the procedures established 
        pursuant to section 801(a).
    ``(b) In General.--Each head of an agency that makes a 
determination regarding eligibility for access to classified 
information shall ensure that in making the determination, the head of 
the agency or any person acting on behalf of the head of the agency--
            ``(1) does not violate any right or protection enshrined in 
        the Constitution of the United States, including rights 
        articulated in the First, Fifth, and Fourteenth Amendments;
            ``(2) does not discriminate for or against an individual on 
        the basis of race, ethnicity, color, religion, sex, national 
        origin, age, or handicap;
            ``(3) is not carrying out--
                    ``(A) retaliation for political activities or 
                beliefs; or
                    ``(B) a coercion or reprisal described in section 
                2302(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code; and
            ``(4) does not violate section 3001(j)(1) of the 
        Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 
        U.S.C. 3341(j)(1)).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in the 
        matter preceding section 2 of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3002) is amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 801 the following:

``Sec. 801A. Decisions relating to access to classified information.''.
    (d) Right to Appeal.--
            (1) In general.--Such title, as amended by subsection (c), 
        is further amended by inserting after section 801A the 
        following:

``SEC. 801B. RIGHT TO APPEAL.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Agency.--The term `agency' has the meaning given the 
        term `Executive agency' in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            ``(2) Covered person.--The term `covered person' means a 
        person, other than the President and Vice President, currently 
        or formerly employed in, detailed to, assigned to, or issued an 
        authorized conditional offer of employment for a position that 
        requires access to classified information by an agency, 
        including the following:
                    ``(A) A member of the Armed Forces.
                    ``(B) A civilian.
                    ``(C) An expert or consultant with a contractual or 
                personnel obligation to an agency.
                    ``(D) Any other category of person who acts for or 
                on behalf of an agency as determined by the head of the 
                agency.
            ``(3) Eligibility for access to classified information.--
        The term `eligibility for access to classified information' has 
        the meaning given such term in the procedures established 
        pursuant to section 801(a).
            ``(4) Need for access.--The term `need for access' has such 
        meaning as the President may define in the procedures 
        established pursuant to section 801(a).
            ``(5) Reciprocity of clearance.--The term `reciprocity of 
        clearance', with respect to a denial by an agency, means that 
        the agency, with respect to a covered person--
                    ``(A) failed to accept a security clearance 
                background investigation as required by paragraph (1) 
                of section 3001(d) of the Intelligence Reform and 
                Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(d));
                    ``(B) failed to accept a transferred security 
                clearance background investigation required by 
                paragraph (2) of such section;
                    ``(C) subjected the covered person to an additional 
                investigative or adjudicative requirement in violation 
                of paragraph (3) of such section; or
                    ``(D) conducted an investigation in violation of 
                paragraph (4) of such section.
            ``(6) Security executive agent.--The term `Security 
        Executive Agent' means the officer serving as the Security 
        Executive Agent pursuant to section 803.
    ``(b) Agency Review.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2021, each head of an agency shall, consistent with 
        the interest of national security, establish and publish in the 
        Federal Register a process by which a covered person to whom 
        eligibility for access to classified information was denied or 
        revoked by the agency or for whom reciprocity of clearance was 
        denied by the agency can appeal that denial or revocation 
        within the agency.
            ``(2) Elements.--The process required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) In the case of a covered person to whom 
                eligibility for access to classified information or 
                reciprocity of clearance is denied or revoked by an 
                agency, the following:
                            ``(i) The head of the agency shall provide 
                        the covered person with a written--
                                    ``(I) detailed explanation of the 
                                basis for the denial or revocation as 
                                the head of the agency determines is 
                                consistent with the interests of 
                                national security and as permitted by 
                                other applicable provisions of law; and
                                    ``(II) notice of the right of the 
                                covered person to a hearing and appeal 
                                under this subsection.
                            ``(ii) Not later than 30 days after 
                        receiving a request from the covered person for 
                        copies of the documents that formed the basis 
                        of the agency's decision to revoke or deny, 
                        including the investigative file, the head of 
                        the agency shall provide to the covered person 
                        copies of such documents as--
                                    ``(I) the head of the agency 
                                determines is consistent with the 
                                interests of national security; and
                                    ``(II) permitted by other 
                                applicable provisions of law, 
                                including--
                                            ``(aa) section 552 of title 
                                        5, United States Code (commonly 
                                        known as the `Freedom of 
                                        Information Act');
                                            ``(bb) section 552a of such 
                                        title (commonly known as the 
                                        `Privacy Act of 1974'); and
                                            ``(cc) such other 
                                        provisions of law relating to 
                                        the protection of confidential 
                                        sources and privacy of 
                                        individuals.
                            ``(iii)(I) The covered person shall have 
                        the opportunity to retain counsel or other 
                        representation at the covered person's expense.
                            ``(II) Upon the request of the covered 
                        person, and a showing that the ability to 
                        review classified information is essential to 
                        the resolution of an appeal under this 
                        subsection, counsel or other representation 
                        retained under this clause shall be considered 
                        for access to classified information for the 
                        limited purposes of such appeal.
                            ``(iv)(I) The head of the agency shall 
                        provide the covered person an opportunity, at a 
                        point in the process determined by the agency 
                        head--
                                    ``(aa) to appear personally before 
                                an adjudicative or other authority, 
                                other than the investigating entity, 
                                and to present to such authority 
                                relevant documents, materials, and 
                                information, including evidence that 
                                past problems relating to the denial or 
                                revocation have been overcome or 
                                sufficiently mitigated; and
                                    ``(bb) to call and cross-examine 
                                witnesses before such authority, unless 
                                the head of the agency determines that 
                                calling and cross-examining witnesses 
                                is not consistent with the interests of 
                                national security.
                            ``(II) The head of the agency shall make, 
                        as part of the security record of the covered 
                        person, a written summary, transcript, or 
                        recording of any appearance under item (aa) of 
                        subclause (I) or of any calling or cross-
                        examining of witnesses under item (bb) of such 
                        subclause.
                            ``(v) On or before the date that is 30 days 
                        after the date on which the covered person 
                        receives copies of documents under clause (ii), 
                        the covered person may request a hearing of the 
                        decision to deny or revoke by filing a written 
                        appeal with the head of the agency.
                    ``(B) A requirement that each review of a decision 
                under this subsection is completed on average not later 
                than 180 days after the date on which a hearing is 
                requested under subparagraph (A)(v).
            ``(3) Agency review panels.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each head of an agency shall 
                establish a panel to hear and review appeals under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Membership.--
                            ``(i) Composition.--Each panel established 
                        by the head of an agency under subparagraph (A) 
                        shall be composed of at least three employees 
                        of the agency selected by the agency head, two 
                        of whom shall not be members of the security 
                        field.
                            ``(ii) Terms.--A term of service on a panel 
                        established by the head of an agency under 
                        subparagraph (A) shall not exceed 2 years.
                    ``(C) Decisions.--
                            ``(i) Written.--Each decision of a panel 
                        established under subparagraph (A) shall be in 
                        writing and contain a justification of the 
                        decision.
                            ``(ii) Consistency.--Each head of an agency 
                        that establishes a panel under subparagraph (A) 
                        shall ensure that each decision of the panel is 
                        consistent with the interests of national 
                        security and applicable provisions of law.
                            ``(iii) Overturn.--The head of an agency 
                        may overturn a decision of the panel if, not 
                        later than 30 days after the date on which the 
                        panel issues the decision, the agency head 
                        personally exercises the authority granted by 
                        this clause to overturn such decision.
                            ``(iv) Finality.--Each decision of a panel 
                        established under subparagraph (A) or 
                        overturned pursuant to clause (iii) of this 
                        subparagraph shall be final.
                    ``(D) Access to classified information.--The head 
                of an agency that establishes a panel under 
                subparagraph (A) shall afford access to classified 
                information to the members of the panel as the agency 
                head determines--
                            ``(i) necessary for the panel to hear and 
                        review an appeal under this subsection; and
                            ``(ii) consistent with the interests of 
                        national security.
            ``(4) Representation by counsel.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each head of an agency shall 
                ensure that, under this subsection, a covered person 
                appealing a decision of the head's agency under this 
                subsection has an opportunity to retain counsel or 
                other representation at the covered person's expense.
                    ``(B) Access to classified information.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Upon the request of a 
                        covered person appealing a decision of an 
                        agency under this subsection and a showing that 
                        the ability to review classified information is 
                        essential to the resolution of the appeal under 
                        this subsection, the head of the agency shall 
                        sponsor an application by the counsel or other 
                        representation retained under this paragraph 
                        for access to classified information for the 
                        limited purposes of such appeal.
                            ``(ii) Extent of access.--Counsel or 
                        another representative who is cleared for 
                        access under this subparagraph may be afforded 
                        access to relevant classified materials to the 
                        extent consistent with the interests of 
                        national security.
            ``(5) Publication of decisions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each head of an agency shall 
                publish each final decision on an appeal under this 
                subsection.
                    ``(B) Requirements.--In order to ensure 
                transparency, oversight by Congress, and meaningful 
                information for those who need to understand how the 
                clearance process works, each publication under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be--
                            ``(i) made in a manner that is consistent 
                        with section 552 of title 5, United States 
                        Code, as amended by the Electronic Freedom of 
                        Information Act Amendments of 1996 (Public Law 
                        104-231);
                            ``(ii) published to explain the facts of 
                        the case, redacting personally identifiable 
                        information and sensitive program information; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) made available on a website that is 
                        searchable by members of the public.
    ``(c) Period of Time for the Right to Appeal.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), any 
        covered person who has been the subject of a decision made by 
        the head of an agency to deny or revoke eligibility for access 
        to classified information shall retain all rights to appeal 
        under this section until the conclusion of the appeals process 
        under this section.
            ``(2) Waiver of rights.--
                    ``(A) Persons.--Any covered person may voluntarily 
                waive the covered person's right to appeal under this 
                section and such waiver shall be conclusive.
                    ``(B) Agencies.--The head of an agency may not 
                require a covered person to waive the covered person's 
                right to appeal under this section for any reason.
    ``(d) Waiver of Availability of Procedures for National Security 
Interest.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the head of an agency determines that 
        a procedure established under subsection (b) cannot be made 
        available to a covered person in an exceptional case without 
        damaging a national security interest of the United States by 
        revealing classified information, such procedure shall not be 
        made available to such covered person.
            ``(2) Finality.--A determination under paragraph (1) shall 
        be final and conclusive and may not be reviewed by any other 
        official or by any court.
            ``(3) Reporting.--
                    ``(A) Case-by-case.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In each case in which 
                        the head of an agency determines under 
                        paragraph (1) that a procedure established 
                        under subsection (b) cannot be made available 
                        to a covered person, the agency head shall, not 
                        later than 30 days after the date on which the 
                        agency head makes such determination, submit to 
                        the Security Executive Agent and to the 
                        congressional intelligence committees a report 
                        stating the reasons for the determination.
                            ``(ii) Form.--A report submitted under 
                        clause (i) may be submitted in classified form 
                        as necessary.
                    ``(B) Annual reports.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not less frequently than 
                        once each fiscal year, the Security Executive 
                        Agent shall submit to the congressional 
                        intelligence committees a report on the 
                        determinations made under paragraph (1) during 
                        the previous fiscal year.
                            ``(ii) Contents.--Each report submitted 
                        under clause (i) shall include, for the period 
                        covered by the report, the following:
                                    ``(I) The number of cases and 
                                reasons for determinations made under 
                                paragraph (1), disaggregated by agency.
                                    ``(II) Such other matters as the 
                                Security Executive Agent considers 
                                appropriate.
    ``(e) Denials and Revocations Under Other Provisions of Law.--
            ``(1) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
        be construed to limit or affect the responsibility and power of 
        the head of an agency to deny or revoke eligibility for access 
        to classified information or to deny reciprocity of clearance 
        in the interest of national security.
            ``(2) Denials and revocation.--The power and responsibility 
        to deny or revoke eligibility for access to classified 
        information or to deny reciprocity of clearance pursuant to any 
        other provision of law or Executive order may be exercised only 
        when the head of an agency determines that an applicable 
        process established under this section cannot be invoked in a 
        manner that is consistent with national security.
            ``(3) Finality.--A determination under paragraph (2) shall 
        be final and conclusive and may not be reviewed by any other 
        official or by any court.
            ``(4) Reporting.--
                    ``(A) Case-by-case.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In each case in which 
                        the head of an agency determines under 
                        paragraph (2) that a determination relating to 
                        a denial or revocation of eligibility for 
                        access to classified information or denial of 
                        reciprocity of clearance could not be made 
                        pursuant to a process established under this 
                        section, the agency head shall, not later than 
                        30 days after the date on which the agency head 
                        makes such a determination under paragraph (2), 
                        submit to the Security Executive Agent and to 
                        the congressional intelligence committees a 
                        report stating the reasons for the 
                        determination.
                            ``(ii) Form.--A report submitted under 
                        clause (i) may be submitted in classified form 
                        as necessary.
                    ``(B) Annual reports.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not less frequently than 
                        once each fiscal year, the Security Executive 
                        Agent shall submit to the congressional 
                        intelligence committees a report on the 
                        determinations made under paragraph (2) during 
                        the previous fiscal year.
                            ``(ii) Contents.--Each report submitted 
                        under clause (i) shall include, for the period 
                        covered by the report, the following:
                                    ``(I) The number of cases and 
                                reasons for determinations made under 
                                paragraph (2), disaggregated by agency.
                                    ``(II) Such other matters as the 
                                Security Executive Agent considers 
                                appropriate.
    ``(f) Relationship to Suitability.--No person may use a 
determination of suitability under part 731 of title 5, Code of Federal 
Regulations, or successor regulation, for the purpose of denying a 
covered person the review proceedings of this section where there has 
been a denial or revocation of eligibility for access to classified 
information or a denial of reciprocity of clearance.
    ``(g) Preservation of Roles and Responsibilities Under Executive 
Order 10865 and of the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals.--Nothing 
in this section shall be construed to diminish or otherwise affect the 
procedures in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
this Act for denial and revocation procedures provided to individuals 
by Executive Order 10865 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note; relating to safeguarding 
classified information within industry), or successor order, including 
those administered through the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals 
of the Department of Defense under Department of Defense Directive 
5220.6, or successor directive.
    ``(h) Rule of Construction Relating to Certain Other Provisions of 
Law.--This section and the processes and procedures established under 
this section shall not be construed to apply to paragraphs (6) and (7) 
of section 3001(j) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention 
Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in the 
        matter preceding section 2 of the National Security Act of 1947 
        (50 U.S.C. 3002), as amended by subsection (c), is further 
        amended by inserting after the item relating to section 801A 
        the following:

``Sec. 801B. Right to appeal.''.

SEC. 9402. ESTABLISHING PROCESS PARITY FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE 
              REVOCATIONS.

    Subparagraph (C) of section 3001(j)(4) of the Intelligence Reform 
and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(j)(4)) is amended 
to read as follows:
                    ``(C) Burdens of proof.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (iii), 
                        in determining whether the adverse security 
                        clearance or access determination violated 
                        paragraph (1), the agency shall find that 
                        paragraph (1) was violated if the individual 
                        has demonstrated that a disclosure described in 
                        paragraph (1) was a contributing factor in the 
                        adverse security clearance or access 
                        determination taken against the individual.
                            ``(ii) Circumstantial evidence.--An 
                        individual under clause (i) may demonstrate 
                        that the disclosure was a contributing factor 
                        in the adverse security clearance or access 
                        determination taken against the individual 
                        through circumstantial evidence, such as 
                        evidence that--
                                    ``(I) the official making the 
                                determination knew of the disclosure; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) the determination occurred 
                                within a period such that a reasonable 
                                person could conclude that the 
                                disclosure was a contributing factor in 
                                the determination.
                            ``(iii) Defense.--In determining whether 
                        the adverse security clearance or access 
                        determination violated paragraph (1), the 
                        agency shall not find that paragraph (1) was 
                        violated if, after a finding that a disclosure 
                        was a contributing factor, the agency 
                        demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence 
                        that it would have made the same security 
                        clearance or access determination in the 
                        absence of such disclosure.''.

SEC. 9403. FEDERAL POLICY ON SHARING OF DEROGATORY INFORMATION 
              PERTAINING TO CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES IN THE TRUSTED 
              WORKFORCE.

    (a) Policy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Security Executive Agent, in coordination 
with the principal members of the Performance Accountability Council 
and the Attorney General, shall issue a policy for the Federal 
Government on sharing of derogatory information pertaining to 
contractor employees engaged by the Federal Government.
    (b) Consent Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--The policy issued under subsection (a) 
        shall require, as a condition of accepting a security clearance 
        with the Federal Government, that a contractor employee provide 
        prior written consent for the Federal Government to share 
        covered derogatory information with the chief security officer 
        of the contractor employer that employs the contractor 
        employee.
            (2) Covered derogatory information.--For purposes of this 
        section, covered derogatory information--
                    (A) is information that--
                            (i) contravenes National Security 
                        Adjudicative Guidelines as specified in 
                        Security Executive Agent Directive 4 (10 C.F.R. 
                        710 app. A), or any successor Federal policy;
                            (ii) a Federal Government agency certifies 
                        is accurate and reliable;
                            (iii) is relevant to a contractor's ability 
                        to protect against insider threats as required 
                        by section 1-202 of the National Industrial 
                        Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), or 
                        successor manual; and
                            (iv) may have a bearing on the contractor 
                        employee's suitability for a position of public 
                        trust or to receive credentials to access 
                        certain facilities of the Federal Government; 
                        and
                    (B) shall include any negative information 
                considered in the adjudicative process, including 
                information provided by the contractor employee on 
                forms submitted for the processing of the contractor 
                employee's security clearance.
    (c) Elements.--The policy issued under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) require Federal agencies, except under exceptional 
        circumstances specified by the Security Executive Agent, to 
        share with the contractor employer of a contractor employee 
        engaged with the Federal Government the existence of 
        potentially derogatory information and which National Security 
        Adjudicative Guideline it falls under, with the exception that 
        the Security Executive Agent may waive such requirement in 
        circumstances the Security Executive Agent considers 
        extraordinary;
            (2) require that covered derogatory information shared with 
        a contractor employer as described in subsection (b)(1) be used 
        by the contractor employer exclusively for risk mitigation 
        purposes under section 1-202 of the National Industrial 
        Security Program Operating Manual, or successor manual;
            (3) require Federal agencies to share any mitigation 
        measures in place to address the derogatory information;
            (4) establish standards for timeliness for sharing the 
        derogatory information;
            (5) specify the methods by which covered derogatory 
        information will be shared with the contractor employer of the 
        contractor employee;
            (6) allow the contractor employee, within a specified 
        timeframe, the right--
                    (A) to contest the accuracy and reliability of 
                covered derogatory information;
                    (B) to address or remedy any concerns raised by the 
                covered derogatory information; and
                    (C) to provide documentation pertinent to 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) for an agency to place in 
                relevant security clearance databases;
            (7) establish a procedure by which the contractor employer 
        of the contractor employee may consult with the Federal 
        Government prior to taking any remedial action under section 1-
        202 of the National Industrial Security Program Operating 
        Manual, or successor manual, to address the derogatory 
        information the Federal agency has provided;
            (8) stipulate that the chief security officer of the 
        contractor employer is prohibited from sharing or discussing 
        covered derogatory information with other parties, including 
        nonsecurity professionals at the contractor employer; and
            (9) require companies in the National Industrial Security 
        Program to comply with the policy.
    (d) Consideration of Lessons Learned From Information-sharing 
Program for Positions of Trust and Security Clearances.--In developing 
the policy issued under subsection (a), the Director shall consider, to 
the extent available, lessons learned from actions taken to carry out 
section 6611(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92).

                  TITLE XCV--REPORTS AND OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 9501. REPORT ON ATTEMPTS BY FOREIGN ADVERSARIES TO BUILD 
              TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CYBERSECURITY EQUIPMENT AND 
              SERVICES FOR, OR TO PROVIDE SUCH EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES 
              TO, CERTAIN ALLIES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Five eyes country.--The term ``Five Eyes country'' 
        means any of the following:
                    (A) Australia.
                    (B) Canada.
                    (C) New Zealand.
                    (D) The United Kingdom.
                    (E) The United States.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, 
the Director of the National Security Agency, and the Director of the 
Defense Intelligence Agency shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on attempts by foreign adversaries to 
build telecommunications and cybersecurity equipment and services for, 
or to provide such equipment and services to, Five Eyes countries.
    (c) Elements.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An assessment of United States intelligence sharing and 
        intelligence and military force posture in any Five Eyes 
        country that currently uses or intends to use 
        telecommunications or cybersecurity equipment or services 
        provided by a foreign adversary of the United States, including 
        China and Russia.
            (2) A description and assessment of mitigation of any 
        potential compromises or risks for any circumstance described 
        in paragraph (1).
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) shall include an 
unclassified executive summary, and may include a classified annex.

SEC. 9502. REPORT ON THREATS POSED BY USE BY FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS AND 
              ENTITIES OF COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE CYBER INTRUSION AND 
              SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the 
threats posed by the use by foreign governments and entities of 
commercially available cyber intrusion and other surveillance 
technology.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) Matters relating to threats described in subsection (a) 
        as they pertain to the following:
                    (A) The threat posed to United States persons and 
                persons inside the United States.
                    (B) The threat posed to United States personnel 
                overseas.
                    (C) The threat posed to employees of the Federal 
                Government, including through both official and 
                personal accounts and devices.
            (2) A description of which foreign governments and entities 
        pose the greatest threats from the use of technology described 
        in subsection (a) and the nature of those threats.
            (3) An assessment of the source of the commercially 
        available cyber intrusion and other surveillance technology 
        that poses the threats described in subsection (a), including 
        whether such technology is made by United States companies or 
        companies in the United States or by foreign companies.
            (4) An assessment of actions taken, as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, by the Federal Government and foreign 
        governments to limit the export of technology described in 
        subsection (a) from the United States or foreign countries to 
        foreign governments and entities in ways that pose the threats 
        described in such subsection.
            (5) Matters relating to how the Federal Government, 
        Congress, and foreign governments can most effectively mitigate 
        the threats described in subsection (a), including matters 
        relating to the following:
                    (A) Working with the technology and 
                telecommunications industry to identify and improve the 
                security of consumer software and hardware used by 
                United States persons and persons inside the United 
                States that is targeted by commercial cyber intrusion 
                and surveillance software.
                    (B) Export controls.
                    (C) Diplomatic pressure.
                    (D) Trade agreements.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 9503. REPORTS ON RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE CYBERSPACE SOLARIUM 
              COMMISSION.

    (a) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee 
        on Intelligence, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation, and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select 
        Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on Homeland Security, 
        the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Reports Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, each head of an agency described in 
subsection (c) shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report on the recommendations included in the report issued by the 
Cyberspace Solarium Commission under section 1652(k) of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (Public 
Law 115-232).
    (c) Agencies Described.--The agencies described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Department of Homeland Security.
            (3) The Department of Energy.
            (4) The Department of Commerce.
            (5) The Department of Defense.
    (d) Contents.--Each report submitted under subsection (b) by the 
head of an agency described in subsection (c) shall include the 
following:
            (1) An evaluation of the recommendations in the report 
        described in subsection (b) that the agency identifies as 
        pertaining directly to the agency.
            (2) A description of the actions taken, or the actions that 
        the head of the agency may consider taking, to implement any of 
        the recommendations (including a comprehensive estimate of 
        requirements for appropriations to take such actions).

SEC. 9504. ASSESSMENT OF CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY TRENDS RELATING TO 
              ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, MICROCHIPS, AND SEMICONDUCTORS 
              AND RELATED SUPPLY CHAINS.

    (a) Assessment Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
complete a detailed assessment of critical technology trends relating 
to artificial intelligence, microchips, and semiconductors and related 
supply chains.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) Export controls.--
                    (A) In general.--An assessment of efforts by 
                partner countries to enact and implement export 
                controls and other technology transfer measures with 
                respect to artificial intelligence, microchips, 
                advanced manufacturing equipment, and other artificial 
                intelligence enabled technologies critical to United 
                States supply chains.
                    (B) Identification of opportunities for 
                cooperation.--The assessment under subparagraph (A) 
                shall identify opportunities for further cooperation 
                with international partners on a multilateral and 
                bilateral basis to strengthen export control regimes 
                and address technology transfer threats.
            (2) Semiconductor supply chains.--
                    (A) In general.--An assessment of global 
                semiconductor supply chains, including areas to reduce 
                United States vulnerabilities and maximize points of 
                leverage.
                    (B) Analysis of potential effects.--The assessment 
                under subparagraph (A) shall include an analysis of the 
                potential effects of significant geopolitical shifts, 
                including those related to Taiwan.
                    (C) Identification of opportunities for 
                diversification.--The assessment under subparagraph (A) 
                shall also identify opportunities for diversification 
                of United States supply chains, including an assessment 
                of cost, challenges, and opportunities to diversify 
                manufacturing capabilities on a multinational basis.
            (3) Computing power.--An assessment of trends relating to 
        computing power and the effect of such trends on global 
        artificial intelligence development and implementation, in 
        consultation with the Director of the Intelligence Advanced 
        Research Projects Activity, the Director of the Defense 
        Advanced Research Projects Agency, and the Director of the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology, including 
        forward-looking assessments of how computing resources may 
        affect United States national security, innovation, and 
        implementation relating to artificial intelligence.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) Definition of appropriate committees of congress.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of 
        Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Banking, 
                Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on 
                Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 
                the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
                Financial Services, and the Committee on Foreign 
                Affairs of the House of Representatives.
            (2) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the findings of 
        the Director with respect to the assessment completed under 
        subsection (a).
            (3) Form.--The report submitted under paragraph (2) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 9505. COMBATING CHINESE INFLUENCE OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES 
              AND STRENGTHENING CIVIL LIBERTIES PROTECTIONS.

    (a) Updates to Annual Reports on Influence Operations and Campaigns 
in the United States by the Chinese Communist Party.--Section 1107(b) 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3237(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) An identification of influence activities and 
        operations employed by the Chinese Communist Party against the 
        United States science and technology sectors, specifically 
        employees of the United States Government, researchers, 
        scientists, and students in the science and technology sector 
        in the United States.''.
    (b) Plan for Federal Bureau of Investigation to Increase Public 
Awareness and Detection of Influence Activities by the Government of 
the People's Republic of China.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation shall submit to the congressional 
        intelligence committees a plan--
                    (A) to increase public awareness of influence 
                activities by the Government of the People's Republic 
                of China; and
                    (B) to publicize mechanisms that members of the 
                public can use--
                            (i) to detect such activities; and
                            (ii) to report such activities to the 
                        Bureau.
            (2) Consultation.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Director shall consult with the following:
                    (A) The Director of the Office of Science and 
                Technology Policy.
                    (B) Such other stakeholders outside the 
                intelligence community, including professional 
                associations, institutions of higher education, 
                businesses, and civil rights and multicultural 
                organizations, as the Director determines relevant.
    (c) Recommendations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to 
Strengthen Relationships and Build Trust With Communities of 
Interest.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation, in consultation with the Assistant Attorney 
        General for the Civil Rights Division and the Chief Privacy and 
        Civil Liberties Officer of the Department of Justice, shall 
        develop recommendations to strengthen relationships with 
        communities targeted by influence activities of the Government 
        of the People's Republic of China and build trust with such 
        communities through local and regional grassroots outreach.
            (2) Submittal to congress.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to 
        Congress the recommendations developed under paragraph (1).
    (d) Technical Corrections.--The National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 1107 (50 U.S.C. 3237)--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``communist 
                party of china'' and inserting ``chinese communist 
                party''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Communist Party of China'' both 
                places it appears and inserting ``Chinese Communist 
                Party''; and
            (2) in the table of contents before section 2 (50 U.S.C. 
        3002), by striking the item relating to section 1107 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 1107. Annual reports on influence operations and campaigns in 
                            the United States by the Chinese Communist 
                            Party.''.

SEC. 9506. ANNUAL REPORT ON CORRUPT ACTIVITIES OF SENIOR OFFICIALS OF 
              THE CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY.

    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
        the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Foreign Relations, 
        and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Annual Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 
        2025, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
        the corruption and corrupt activities of senior officials of 
        the Chinese Communist Party.
            (2) Elements.--
                    (A) In general.--Each report under paragraph (1) 
                shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the wealth of, and 
                        corruption and corrupt activities among, senior 
                        officials of the Chinese Communist Party.
                            (ii) A description of any recent actions of 
                        the officials described in clause (i) that 
                        could be considered a violation, or potential 
                        violation, of United States law.
                            (iii) A description and assessment of 
                        targeted financial measures, including 
                        potential targets for designation of the 
                        officials described in clause (i) for the 
                        corruption and corrupt activities described in 
                        that clause and for the actions described in 
                        clause (ii).
                    (B) Scope of reports.--The first report under 
                paragraph (1) shall include comprehensive information 
                on the matters described in subparagraph (A). Any 
                succeeding report under paragraph (1) may consist of an 
                update or supplement to the preceding report under that 
                subsection.
            (3) Coordination.--In preparing each report, update, or 
        supplement under this subsection, the Director of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency shall coordinate as follows:
                    (A) In preparing the description required by clause 
                (i) of paragraph (2)(A), the Director of the Central 
                Intelligence Agency shall coordinate with the head of 
                the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the 
                Department of the Treasury and the Director of the 
                Federal Bureau of Investigation.
                    (B) In preparing the descriptions required by 
                clauses (ii) and (iii) of such paragraph, the Director 
                of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate 
                with the head of the Office of Intelligence and 
                Analysis of the Department of the Treasury.
            (4) Form.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include an 
        unclassified executive summary, and may include a classified 
        annex.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should undertake every effort and pursue every opportunity to 
expose the corruption and illicit practices of senior officials of the 
Chinese Communist Party, including President Xi Jinping.

SEC. 9507. REPORT ON CORRUPT ACTIVITIES OF RUSSIAN AND OTHER EASTERN 
              EUROPEAN OLIGARCHS.

    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
        the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Foreign Relations, 
        and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 100 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress and the 
Undersecretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs a 
report on the corruption and corrupt activities of Russian and other 
Eastern European oligarchs.
    (c) Elements.--
            (1) In general.--Each report under subsection (b) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) A description of corruption and corrupt 
                activities among Russian and other Eastern European 
                oligarchs who support the Government of the Russian 
                Federation, including estimates of the total assets of 
                such oligarchs.
                    (B) An assessment of the impact of the corruption 
                and corrupt activities described pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) on the economy and citizens of Russia.
                    (C) A description of any connections to, or support 
                of, organized crime, drug smuggling, or human 
                trafficking by an oligarch covered by subparagraph (A).
                    (D) A description of any information that reveals 
                corruption and corrupt activities in Russia among 
                oligarchs covered by subparagraph (A).
                    (E) A description and assessment of potential 
                sanctions actions that could be imposed upon oligarchs 
                covered by subparagraph (A) who support the leadership 
                of the Government of Russia, including President 
                Vladimir Putin.
            (2) Scope of reports.--The first report under subsection 
        (a) shall include comprehensive information on the matters 
        described in paragraph (1). Any succeeding report under 
        subsection (a) may consist of an update or supplement to the 
        preceding report under that subsection.
    (d) Coordination.--In preparing each report, update, or supplement 
under this section, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
shall coordinate as follows:
            (1) In preparing the assessment and descriptions required 
        by subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1), the 
        Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate 
        with the head of the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the 
        Department of the Treasury and the Director of the Federal 
        Bureau of Investigation.
            (2) In preparing the description and assessment required by 
        subparagraph (E) of such subsection, the Director of the 
        Central Intelligence Agency shall coordinate with the head of 
        the Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of 
        the Treasury.
    (e) Form.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), each report 
        under subsection (b) shall include an unclassified executive 
        summary, and may include a classified annex.
            (2) Unclassified form of certain information.--The 
        information described in subsection (c)(1)(D) in each report 
        under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form.

SEC. 9508. REPORT ON BIOSECURITY RISK AND DISINFORMATION BY THE CHINESE 
              COMMUNIST PARTY AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S 
              REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
                and Pensions, and the Committee on Homeland Security 
                and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, 
                the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
                Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
                and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Critical infrastructure.--The term ``critical 
        infrastructure'' has the meaning given such term in section 
        1016(e) of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 
        Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism 
        (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001 (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e)).
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report identifying 
whether and how officials of the Chinese Communist Party and the 
Government of the People's Republic of China may have sought--
            (1) to suppress information about--
                    (A) the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in Wuhan;
                    (B) the spread of the virus through China; and
                    (C) the transmission of the virus to other 
                countries;
            (2) to spread disinformation relating to the pandemic; or
            (3) to exploit the pandemic to advance their national 
        security interests.
    (c) Assessments.--The report required by subsection (b) shall 
include assessments of reported actions and the effect of those actions 
on efforts to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic, including each of 
the following:
            (1) The origins of the novel coronavirus outbreak, the time 
        and location of initial infections, and the mode and speed of 
        early viral spread.
            (2) Actions taken by the Government of China to suppress, 
        conceal, or misinform the people of China and those of other 
        countries about the novel coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan.
            (3) The effect of disinformation or the failure of the 
        Government of China to fully disclose details of the outbreak 
        on response efforts of local governments in China and other 
        countries.
            (4) Diplomatic, political, economic, intelligence, or other 
        pressure on other countries and international organizations to 
        conceal information about the spread of the novel coronavirus 
        and the response of the Government of China to the contagion, 
        as well as to influence or coerce early responses to the 
        pandemic by other countries.
            (5) Efforts by officials of the Government of China to deny 
        access to health experts and international health organizations 
        to afflicted individuals in Wuhan, pertinent areas of the city, 
        or laboratories of interest in China, including the Wuhan 
        Institute of Virology.
            (6) Efforts by the Government of China, or those acting at 
        its direction or with its assistance, to conduct cyber 
        operations against international, national, or private health 
        organizations conducting research relating to the novel 
        coronavirus or operating in response to the pandemic.
            (7) Efforts to control, restrict, or manipulate relevant 
        segments of global supply chains, particularly in the sale, 
        trade, or provision of relevant medicines, medical supplies, or 
        medical equipment as a result of the pandemic.
            (8) Efforts to advance the economic, intelligence, national 
        security, and political objectives of the Government of China 
        by exploiting vulnerabilities of foreign governments, 
        economies, and companies under financial duress as a result of 
        the pandemic or to accelerate economic espionage and 
        intellectual property theft.
            (9) Efforts to exploit the disruption of the pharmaceutical 
        and telecommunications industries as well as other industries 
        tied to critical infrastructure and bilateral trade between 
        China and the United States and between China and allies and 
        partners of the United States in order to advance the economic 
        and political objectives of the Government of China following 
        the pandemic.
    (d) Form.--The report required under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 9509. REPORT ON EFFECT OF LIFTING OF UNITED NATIONS ARMS EMBARGO 
              ON ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN.

    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, 
in consultation with such heads of other elements of the intelligence 
community as the Director considers appropriate, shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on--
            (1) the plans of the Government of the Islamic Republic of 
        Iran to acquire military arms if the ban on arms transfers to 
        or from such government under United Nations Security Council 
        resolutions are lifted; and
            (2) the effect such arms acquisitions may have on regional 
        security and stability.
    (c) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall 
include assessments relating to plans of the Government of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran to acquire additional weapons, the intention of other 
countries to provide such weapons, and the effect such acquisition and 
provision would have on regional stability, including with respect to 
each of the following:
            (1) The type and quantity of weapon systems under 
        consideration for acquisition.
            (2) The countries of origin of such systems.
            (3) Likely reactions of other countries in the region to 
        such acquisition, including the potential for proliferation by 
        other countries in response.
            (4) The threat that such acquisition could present to 
        international commerce and energy supplies in the region, and 
        the potential implications for the national security of the 
        United States.
            (5) The threat that such acquisition could present to the 
        Armed Forces of the United States, of countries allied with the 
        United States, and of countries partnered with the United 
        States stationed in or deployed in the region.
            (6) The potential that such acquisition could be used to 
        deliver chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons.
            (7) The potential for the Government of the Islamic 
        Republic of Iran to proliferate weapons acquired in the absence 
        of an arms embargo to regional groups, including Shi'a militia 
        groups backed by such government.
    (d) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 9510. REPORT ON IRANIAN ACTIVITIES RELATING TO NUCLEAR 
              NONPROLIFERATION.

    (a) Definition of Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this 
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Select Committee on Intelligence, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report assessing--
            (1) any relevant activities potentially relating to nuclear 
        weapons research and development by the Islamic Republic of 
        Iran; and
            (2) any relevant efforts to afford or deny international 
        access in accordance with international nonproliferation 
        agreements.
    (c) Assessments.--The report required by subsection (b) shall 
include assessments, for the period beginning on January 1, 2018, and 
ending on the date of the submittal of the report, of the following:
            (1) Activities to research, develop, or enrich uranium or 
        reprocess plutonium with the intent or capability of creating 
        weapons-grade nuclear material.
            (2) Research, development, testing, or design activities 
        that could contribute to or inform construction of a device 
        intended to initiate or capable of initiating a nuclear 
        explosion.
            (3) Efforts to receive, transmit, store, destroy, relocate, 
        archive, or otherwise preserve research, processes, products, 
        or enabling materials relevant or relating to any efforts 
        assessed under paragraph (1) or (2).
            (4) Efforts to afford or deny international access, in 
        accordance with international nonproliferation agreements, to 
        locations, individuals, and materials relating to activities 
        described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
    (d) Form.--The report required under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 9511. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THIRD OPTION FOUNDATION.

    It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the work of the Third Option Foundation to heal, help, 
        and honor members of the special operations community of the 
        Central Intelligence Agency and their families is invaluable; 
        and
            (2) the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency should 
        work closely with the Third Option Foundation in implementing 
        section 19A of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
        U.S.C. 3519b), as added by section 6412 of the Damon Paul 
        Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and 2020 (Public Law 116-92).

            Passed the Senate July 23, 2020.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
116th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 4049

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

     To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2021 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and 
   for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe 
   military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.