Calendar No. 68
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 429
[Report No. 102-42]
A BILL
To amend the Sherman Act regarding retail competition.
APRIL 19, 1991
Reported without amendment and without recommendation
S 429 RS
Calendar No. 68
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 429
[Report No. 102-42]
To amend the Sherman Act regarding retail competition.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
February 20 (legislative day, FEBRUARY 6), 1991
Mr. METZENBAUM (for himself, Mr. RUDMAN, Mr. BIDEN, Mr. GORTON,
Mr. SIMON, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. BENTSEN, Mr. BRADLEY, Mr. MURKOWSKI, Mr. SASSER,
Mr. CRANSTON, Mr. ROBB, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. INOUYE, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. KOHL, Mr. EXON,
Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. KERRY, Mr. PELL, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. MOYNIHAN,
Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. ADAMS, Mr. LIEBERMAN, Mr. DODD, Mr. WIRTH, Mr. AKAKA,
Mr. BURDICK, Mr. HARKIN, and Mr. WELLSTONE) introduced the following bill;
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary
April 19, 1991
Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of April 18 (legislative
day, April 9, 1991), by Mr. BIDEN, without amendment and without recommendation
A BILL
To amend the Sherman Act regarding retail competition.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as
  `The Consumer Protection Against Price-Fixing Act of 1991'.
  SEC. 2. The Congress finds that--
  (1) consumer welfare is greatly enhanced by an ability to purchase goods
  and services at lower prices as a result of vigorous price competition;
  (2) vertical price restraints generally have an adverse impact on competition
  that results in higher consumer prices;
  (3) recent court decisions have so narrowly construed the laws against
  vertical price restraints that consumer welfare has been put in jeopardy; and
  (4) it is necessary to enact legislation that protects the interests of
  consumers in vigorous price competition while recognizing the needs of
  manufacturers and others to maintain reasonable service, quality, and
  safety standards.
  SEC. 3. The Sherman Act is amended by redesignating section 8 and any
  references to section 8 as section 9 and by inserting between section 7
  and section 9, as herein redesignated, the following new section:
  `SEC. 8. (a)(1)(A) In any civil action based on section 1 or 3 of this Act,
  including an action brought by the United States or by a State attorney
  general, or by the Federal Trade Commission under section 5 of the Federal
  Trade Commission Act, which alleges a contract, combination or conspiracy
  to set, change, or maintain prices, if pursuant to the Federal Rules of
  Civil Procedure the court finds that there is sufficient evidence, direct
  or circumstantial, from which a trier of fact could reasonably conclude
  that a person who sells a good or service to the claimant for resale
  entered into a contract, combination, or conspiracy with a competitor of
  such claimant to curtail or eliminate price competition by such claimant
  in the resale of such good or service, then the court shall permit the
  trier of fact to consider whether such person and such competitor engaged
  in concerted action to set, change, or maintain prices for such good or
  service in violation of such section.
  `(B) For purposes of paragraph (1), the court shall find the existence of
  `sufficient evidence' that a person who sells a good or service entered
  into a contract, combination, or conspiracy if the claimant presents
  sufficient evidence that such person--
  `(i) received from a competitor of the claimant an express or implied
  request or demand, including a threat to discontinue an existing business
  arrangement, that the seller take steps to curtail or eliminate price
  competition by the claimant in the resale of such good or service, and
  `(ii) because of such request, demand, or threat terminated the claimant
  as buyer of such good or service for resale or refused to continue to
  supply to the claimant some or all of such goods or services requested by
  the claimant: Provided, That a termination or refusal to supply is made
  `because of such request, demand, or threat' only if such request, demand
  or threat is the major cause of such termination or refusal to supply.
  `(2) The court shall not permit the trier of fact to consider whether such
  person and such competitor engaged in concerted action to set, change,
  or maintain prices for such good or service in violation of such section
  if the court determines that the trier of fact could only find that such
  person and such competitor engaged in concerted action by making inferences
  which are implausible.
  `(b) In any civil action based on section 1 or 3 of this Act, including
  an action brought by the Federal Trade Commission under section 5 of the
  Federal Trade Commission Act, which alleges a contract, combination, or
  conspiracy to set, change or maintain prices, the fact that the seller
  of a good or service and the purchaser of a good or service entered into
  an agreement to set, change, or maintain the resale price of a good or
  service shall be sufficient to constitute a violation of such section,
  except that this section shall not apply when the agreement to set, change,
  or maintain the resale price of a good or service is an agreement to set,
  change, or maintain the maximum resale price of a good or service. An
  agreement between the seller of a good or service and the purchaser of a
  good or service to terminate another purchaser as a dealer or to refuse to
  supply such other purchaser because of that purchaser's pricing policies
  shall constitute a violation of such section, whether or not a specific
  price or price level is agreed upon.'.
  SEC. 4. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to change the requirement
  of the Sherman Act that a violation of section 1 or 3 of that Act may only
  be found upon a determination that the defendant entered into an illegal
  contract, combination, or conspiracy.
  SEC. 5. Nothing in this Act shall affect the application of the rule
  of reason standard to vertical location clauses or vertical territorial
  restraints under the antitrust laws.