Calendar No. 99
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 596
[Report No. 102-67]
A BILL
To provide that Federal facilities meet Federal and State environmental laws
and requirements and to clarify that such facilities must comply with such
environmental laws and requirements.
May 30, 1991
Reported without amendment
S 596 RS
Calendar No. 99
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 596
[Report No. 102-67]
To provide that Federal facilities meet Federal and State environmental laws
and requirements and to clarify that such facilities must comply with such
environmental laws and requirements.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 7 (legislative day, FEBRUARY 6), 1991
Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. BURDICK, Mr. REID,
Mr. HARKIN, Mr. PELL, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. LIEBERMAN, Mr. SPECTER,
Mr. DECONCINI, Mr. BRYAN, Mr. ADAMS, Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. COHEN, Ms. MIKULSKI,
Mr. WIRTH, Mr. WELLSTONE, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. AKAKA, Mr. METZENBAUM, Mr. KERRY,
Mr. SANFORD, Mr. KERREY, Mr. HATFIELD, Mr. CRANSTON, Mr. DURENBERGER,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. PACKWOOD, Mr. RIEGLE, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BRADLEY, and Mr. BROWN)
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the
Committee on Environment and Public Works
May 30, 1991
Reported, under the authority of the order of the Senate of May 17 (legislative
day, April 25), 1991, by Mr. BURDICK, without amendment
A BILL
To provide that Federal facilities meet Federal and State environmental laws
and requirements and to clarify that such facilities must comply with such
environmental laws and requirements.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
  SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Federal Facility Compliance Act
  of 1991'.
FACILITY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
  SEC. 2. (a) Each department, agency, and instrumentality of the United
  States shall perform an assessment of the releases of hazardous substances
  (including hazardous constituents thereof) from each solid waste management
  unit at each hazardous substance treatment, storage, or disposal facilty
  owned or operated by the department, agency, or instrumentality after
  November 19, 1980. Such assessments shall be completed within twelve months
  after the enactment of this section and shall indicate whether such facility
  and department, agency, or instrumentality is in compliance with applicable
  requirements of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Comprehensive Emergency
  Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean
  Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Toxic Subtances Control
  Act. Such assessments shall be provided to the Environmental Protection
  Agency and to the State in which the facility is located.
  (b) FACILITY INSPECTIONS- The Administrator of the Environmental Protection
  Agency shall undertake a thorough inspection annually of each facility
  owned or operated by a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United
  States that is subject to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Comprehensive
  Emergency Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Clean Air Act,
  the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Toxic Substances
  Control Act to enforce compliance with these Acts. Each annual inspection
  shall include an analysis of comprehensive groundwater monitoring. The
  records of such inspections shall be available to the public in the
  same manner as provided in section 3007(b) of the Solid Waste Disposal
  Act. The department, agency, or instrumentality owning or operating each
  such facility shall reimburse the Environmental Protection Agency for the
  costs of the inspection of the facility.
APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS TO FEDERAL FACILITIES
  Sec. 3. (a) IN GENERAL- Section 6001 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act
  (42 U.S.C. 6961) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a) IN GENERAL- ' after `6001.';
  (2) in the first sentence, by inserting `and management' before `in the
  same manner';
  (3) by inserting after the first sentence the following: `The Federal, State,
  interstate, and local substantive and procedural requirements referred
  to in this subsection include, but are not limited to, all administrative
  orders and all civil and administrative penalties and fines.'; and
  (4) by inserting after the second sentence the following: `For purposes
  of enforcing any such substantive or procedural requirement (including,
  but not limited to, any injunctive relief, administrative order, or civil
  or administrative penalty or fine) against any such department, agency,
  or instrumentality, the United States hereby expressly waives any immunity
  otherwise applicable to the United States. No agent, employee, or officer
  of the United States shall be personally liable for any civil penalty
  under any Federal or State solid or hazardous waste law with respect to
  any act or omission within the scope of his official duties. An agent,
  employee, or officer of the United States shall be subject to any criminal
  sanction (including, but not limited to, any fine or imprisonment) under
  any Federal or State solid or hazardous waste law, but no department,
  agency, or instrumentality of the executive, legislative, or judicial
  branch of the Federal Government shall be subject to any such sanction.'.
Federal agencies are authorized, at the discretion of the Secretary of the
head of the Federal department or agency concerned, to:
  (1) in State criminal proceedings, represent or expend funds to represent
  an employee in a case in which he or she is sued, subpoenaed or charged in
  his or her individual capacity, when the actions for which representation
  is requested reasonably appear to have been performed within the scope of
  the employee's employment and providing representation would otherwise be
  in the interest of the United States;
  (2) in Federal criminal proceedings, reimburse an employee for reasonable
  defense costs, if no indictment is brought, for actions performed within
  the scope of the employee's employment.
  (b) ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS- Such section is further amended
  by adding at the end the following new subsection--
  `(b) ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS- (1) The Administrator may commence
  an administrative enforcement action against any department, agency, or
  instrumentality of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the
  Federal Government pursuant to the enforcement authorities contained in
  this act. The Administrator shall initiate an administrative enforcement
  action against such a department, agency, or instrumentality in the same
  manner and under the same circumstances as an action would be initiated
  against another person. Any voluntary resolution or settlement of such an
  action shall be set forth in a consent order.
  `(2) No administrative order issued to such a department, agency, or
  instrumentality shall become final until such department, agency, or
  instrumentality has had the opportunity to confer with the Administrator.'.
DEFINITION
  SEC. 4. (a) PERSON- Section 1004(15) is amended by adding the following
  before the period: `and shall include each department, agency, and
  instrumentality of the United States.'.