PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4079
Public Law 101-625
101st Congress
An Act
To authorize a new HOME Investment Partnerships program, a National Homeownership Trust program, £md HOPE programs, to amend and extend certain laws Nov. 28, 1990
relating to housing, community and neighborhood preservation, and related pro- fS 5661
grEims, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, CranstonCrOnZfllGZ
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. National
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as the "Cranston-Gon- Houshfg Act
zalez National Affordable Housing Act". 42 usc 12701
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.— note.
Section 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS AND POLiaES
Sec. 101. The national housing goal.
Sec. 102. Objective of national housing policy.
Sec. 103. Purposes of the Cranston-Gronzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
Sec. 104. Definitions.
Sec. 105. State and local housing strategies.
Sec. 106. Certification.
Sec. 107. Citizen participation.
Sec. 108. Compliance.
Sec. 109. Energy efficiency standards.
Sec. 110. Capacity study.
Sec. 111. Protection of State smd local authority.
TITLE II—INVESTMENT IN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Findings.
Sec. 203. Purposes.
Sec. 204. Coordinated Federal support for housing strategies.
Sec. 205. Authorization.
Sec. 206. Notice.
Subtitle A—HOME Investment Partnerships
Sec. 211. Authority.
Sec. 212. Eligible uses of investment.
Sec. 213. Development of model programs.
Sec. 214. Income targeting.
Sec. 215. Qualification as affordable housing.
Sec. 216. Participation by States and local governments.
Sec. 217. Allocation of resources.
Sec. 218. HOME investment trust funds.
Sec. 219. Repayment of investment.
Sec. 220. Matching requirements.
Sec. 221. Private-public partnership.
Sec. 222. Distribution of assistance. /
Sec. 223. Penalties for misuse of funds.
Sec. 224. Limitation on jurisdictions under court order.
Sec. 225. Tenant and participant protections.
Sec. 226. Monitoring of compliance.
Subtitle B—Community Housing Partnership
Sec. 231. Set-Aside for community housing development organizations.
49-139 O - 90 (625) 
104 STAT. 4080 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Sec. 232. Project-specific assistance to community housing development organizations.
Sec. 233. Housing education and orgsmizational support.
Sec. 234. Other requirements.
Subtitle C—Other Support for State and Local Housing Strategies
Sec. 241. Authority.
Sec. 242. Priorities for capacity development.
Sec. 243. Conditions of contracts.
Sec. 244. Research in housing affordability.
Sec. 245. REACH: Asset recycling information dissemination.
Subtitle D—Specified Model Programs
Sec. 251. (Jeneral authority.
Sec. 252. Rental housing production.
Sec. 253. Rental rehabilitation.
Sec. 254. Rehabilitation loans.
Sec. 255. Sweat equity model program.
Sec. 256. Home repair services grants for older and disabled homeowners.
Sec. 257. Low-income housing conservation and efficiency grant programs.
Sec. 258. Second mortgage assist£mce for first-time homebuyers.
Sec. 259. Rehabilitation of State and local government in rem properties.
Subtitle E—Mortgage Credit Enhancement
Sec. 271. Report on credit enhancement.
Subtitle F—General Provisions
Sec. 281. Equal opportunity.
Sec. 282. Nondiscrimination.
Sec. 283. Annual audits £md accountability.
Sec. 284. Uniform recordkeeping smd reports to the Congress.
Sec. 285. Citizen participation.
Sec. 286. Labor.
Sec. 287. Interstate agreements.
Sec. 288. Environmental review.
Sec. 289. Termination of existing housing programs.
TITLE III—HOMEOWNERSHIP
Subtitle A—National Homeownership Trust Demonstration
Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. National Homeownership Trust.
Sec. 303. Assistemce for first-time homebuyers.
Sec. 304. National Homeownership Trust Fund.
Sec. 305. Definitions.
Sec. 306. Regulations.
Sec. 307. Report.
Sec. 308. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 309. Transition.
Sec. 310. Termination.
Subtitle B—FHA and Secondary Mortgage Market
Sec. 321. Limitation on FHA insurance authority.
Sec. 322. Appraisal services.
Sec. 323. Increase in mortgage limit.
Sec. 324. Mortgagor equity.
Sec. 325. Mortgage insurance premiums.
Sec. 326. Limitation on secondary residences.
Sec. 327. Mortgage counseling for delinquent mortgagors.
Sec. 328. Delegation of processing.
Sec. 329. Disclosure regarding interest due upon mortgage prepayment.
Sec. 330. Accountability of mortgage lenders.
Sec. 331. Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund distributions.
Sec. 332. Actuarial soundness of Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund.
Sec. 333. Insurance of mortgages on property in Virgin Islands.
Sec. 334. Home equity conversion mortgage insurance demonstration.
Sec. 335. Information regarding early defaults on FHA-insured loans.
Sec. 336. Auction of multifamily mortgages.
Sec. 337. Disapproval of regulations regarding property disposition.
Sec. 338. Report regarding foreclosed properties. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4081
Sec. 339. Limitation on GNMA guarantees of mortg£ige-backed securities.
Sec. 340. Increase in loan limits for property improvement loan insurance.
Subtitle C—Effective Date
Sec. 351. Effective date.
TITLE IV—HOMEOWNERSfflP AND OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE
EVERYWHERE PROGRAMS
Sec. 401. Short title.
Subtitle A—HOPE for Public and Indian Housing Homeownership
Sec. 411. HOPE for public and Indifui housing homeownership.
Sec. 412. Amendment to section 18 regarding demolition £uid disposition of public
housing.
Sec. 413. Related amendments to section 8.
Sec. 414. Related CLAP amendment.
Sec. 415. Limitation on section 20 resident management financial assistance.
Sec. 416. Extension of section 21 homeownership program and provision of technical and other assistance.
Sec. 417. Amendment to section 5Gi).
Sec. 418. Implementation.
Sec. 419. Applicability to Indian public housing.
Subtitle B—HOPE for Homeownership of Multifamily Units
Sec. 421. Program authority.
Sec. 422. Planning grants.
Sec. 423. Implementation grants.
Sec. 424. Homeownership program requirements.
Sec. 425. Other program requirements.
Sec. 426. Definitions.
Sec. 427. Exemption.
Sec. 428. Limitation on selection criteria.
Sec. 429. Amendment to National Housing Act.
Sec. 430. Implementation.
Sec. 431. Annual report.
Subtitle C—HOPE for Homeownership of Single Ftunily Homes
Sec. 441. Program authority.
Sec. 442. Planning grants.
Sec. 443. Implementation gr£mts.
Sec. 444. Homeownership program requirements.
Sec. 445. Other program requirements.
Sec. 446. Definitions.
Sec. 447. Limitation on selection criteria.
Sec. 448. Implementation.
TITLE V—HOUSING ASSISTANCE
Subtitle A—Public and Indian Housing
Sec. 501. Preference rules. 1
Sec. 502. Reform of public housing management.
Sec. 503. Eviction and termination procedures.
Sec. 504. Lease requirements regarding termination of tenancy in public housing.
Sec. 505. Notice to post office regarding eviction for criminal activity.
Sec. 506. Public housing assistance for foster care children.
Sec. 507. Public housing operating subsidies.
Sec. 508. Cooling degree day adjustment under performance funding system.
Sec. 509. Formida allocation of modernization funding.
Sec. 510. Reduction of vacancies in public housing units.
Sec. 511. Income eligibility for public housing.
Sec. 512. Scattered-site public housing disposition proceeds.
Sec. 513. Replacement housing.
Sec. 514. Public housing resident management.
Sec. 515. Public housing family investment centers.
Sec. 516. Eligibility of Indian mutual help housing for comprehensive improvement
assistance.
Sec. 517. Public housing early childhood development grants.
Sec. 518. Indian public housing early childhood development demonstration program. 
104 STAT. 4082 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Sec. 519. Public housing rent waiver for police officers.
Sec. 520. Public housing youth sports programs.
Sec. 521. Public housing one-stop perinatal services demonstration.
Sec. 522. Public housing mixed income new communities strategy demonstration.
Sec. 523. Energy efRciency demonstration.
Sec. 524. Study of public housing funding system.
Sec. 525. Study of prospective payment system for public housing.
Sec. 526. GAO study of edtematives in public housing development.
Sec. 527. Applicability.
Subtitle B—Low-Income Rental Assistance
Sec. 541. Designation of certificate and voucher programs.
Sec. 542. Drug-related rent a^jvistments.
Sec. 543. Tenant rent contributions under tenant-based certificate program.
Sec. 544. Opt-outs.
Sec. 545. Preference rules.
Sec. 546. Tencmt protections.
Sec. 547. Revisions to project-based certificate program.
Sec. 548. Section 8 assistance for PHA-owned units.
Sec. 549. Definitions of participating jurisdiction cuid drug-related criminal activity.
Sec. 550. Revisions to voucher program.
Sec. 551. Portability of certificates and vouchers.
Sec. 552. Renewal of expiring contracts.
Sec. 553. Assistance to promote family unification.
Sec. 554. Family self-sufficiency.
Sec. 555. Income eligibility for tenfmcy in new construction imits.
Sec. 556. Distribution of section 8 certificates.
Sec. 557. Settlement agreement reg8u-ding certain section 8 assistance.
Sec. 558. GAO study regarding fair market rent calculation.
Sec. 559. Study of section 8 utilization rates.
Sec. 560. Report on residual receipts accounts in section 8 and section 202 housing.
Sec. 561. Feasibility study regarding Indicm tribe eligibility for voucher progreim.
Subtitle C—General Provisions and Other Assistance Programs
Sec. 571. Low-income housing authorization.
Sec. 572. Low-income term.
Sec. 573. Definitions under United States Housing Act of 1937.
Sec. 574. Effect of foster care children in determining family composition and size.
Sec. 575. Exemption from housing development grant construction commencement
requirements.
Sec. 576. Consultation regarding foster care children in development of housing assistance plan.
Sec. 577. Housing counseling.
Sec. 578. Flexible subsidy program.
Sec. 579. Streamlined property disposition requirements for unsubsidized multifamily housing projects.
Sec. 580. Multifamily housing disposition partnership.
Sec. 581. Public £uid assisted housing drug elimination.
Sec. 582. Study of private nonprofit initiatives.
Sec. 583. Extension of capital assessment study.
TITLE VI—PRESERVATION OF AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING
Subtitle A—Prepayment of Mortgages Insured Under National Housing Act
Sec. 601. Prepayment of mortgages.
Sec. 602. Related National Housing Act amendments.
Sec. 603. Related United States Housing Act of 1937 amendments.
Sec. 604. Transition provisions.
Sec. 605. Effective date.
Subtitle B—Other Preservation Provisions
Sec. 611. Section 236 rental assistance.
Sec. 612. Management and preservation of federally assisted housing.
Sec. 613. Assistance to prevent prepayment under State mortgage programs.
TITLE Vn—RURAL HOUSING
Sec. 701. Program authorizations.
Sec. 702. Effect of foster care children in determination of family composition and
size.
Sec. 703. Escrow accounts. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4083
Sec. 704. Remote rursil areas.
Sec. 705. Section 502 deferred mortgage demonstration.
Sec. 706. Rural housing loan guarantees.
Sec. 707. Foreclosure procedures.
Sec. 708. Disposition of interests on Indian trust land.
Sec. 709. Housing in underserved are£is.
Sec. 710. Rur£d housing inventory.
Sec. 711. Rights of appetd.
Sec. 712. Section 515 losuis.
Sec. 713. Set-aside of rurtd rental housing funds.
Sec. 714. Housing for rural homeless and migrant farmworkers.
Sec. 715. Rural area classification.
Sec. 716. Assistance to reduce rent overburden.
Sec. 717. Housing preservation grants.
Sec. 718. Reciprocity in approval of housing subdivisions Emiong Federal agencies.
Sec. 719. Rural housing technical amendments.
TITLE Vin—HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS
Subtitle A—Supportive Housing for the Elderly
Sec. 801. Supportive housing for the elderly.
Sec. 802. Revised congregate housing services program.
Sec. 803. HOPE for elderly independence.
Sec. 804. Use of Resolution Trust Corporation eligible properties for section 202
housing.
Sec. 805. Centralized applications for section 202 housing.
Sec. 806. Elder cottage housing units.
Sec. 807. Notice of rejection.
Sec. 808. Service coordinators as eligible project cost in section 202 projects.
Subtitle B—Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities
Sec. 811. Supportive housing for persons with disabilities.
SUBTITLE C—SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOE THE HOMELESS
Part 1—Revised McKinney Act
Sec. 821. Amendment to McKinney Act.
Sec. 822, Definition of "homeless person".
Sec. 823. Transitional rule.
Sec. 824. Conforming amendment.
Sec. 825. Strategy to eliminate unfit tremsient facilities.
Part 2—Amendments to Current Progreim
Sec. 831. Comprehensive homeless assistance plan.
Sec. 832. Emergency shelter grants program.
Sec. 833. Supportive housing demonstration program.
Sec. 834. Supplemental assistance for facilities to assist the homeless.
Sec. 835. Section 8 assistance for single room occupancy dwellings.
Sec. 836. Housing eiffordability strategy requirement.
Sec. 837. Shelter plus care.
Part 3—Effective Date '
Sec. 841. Effective date.
SUBTITLE D—HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WFTH AIDS
Sec. 851. Short title.
Sec. 852. Purpose.
Sec. 853. Definitions.
Sec. 854. General authority.
Sec. 855. Eligible activities.
Sec. 856. Responsibilities of grantees.
Sec. 857. Grants for AIDS housing information and coordination services.
Sec. 858. AIDS short-term supported housing and services.
Sec. 859. Short-term rental assistance.
Sec. 860. Single room occupancy dwellings.
Sec. 861. Grants for community residences and services.
Sec. 862. Report.
Sec. 863. Authorization of appropriations. 
104 STAT. 4084 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
TITLE IX—COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND MISCELLANEOUS PROGRAMS
Subtitle A—Community and Neighborhood Development and Preservation
Sec. 901. Community development authorizations.
Sec. 902. Targeting community development block grant assistance.
Sec. 903. Community development city and county classifications.
Sec. 904. Allocation formula in cases of annexation.
Sec. 905. Housing affordability strategy requirement.
Sec. 906. Protection of individuals engaging in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations.
Sec. 907. CDBG eligible activities.
Sec. 908. Public services.
Sec. 909. Authority to provide lump-sum payments to revolving loan funds.
Sec. 910. Community development loan guarantees.
Sec. 911. Hawaiian home lands.
Sec. 912. Prohibition of discrimination on basis of religion under CDBG progreim.
Sec. 913. Technical corrections regarding CDBG for Indian tribes.
Sec. 914. Urban homesteading.
Sec. 915. Neighborhood development demonstration.
Sec. 916. CDBG assistance for United States-Mexico border region.
Sec. 917. Neighborhood reinvestment corporation.
Sec. 918. Use of urban renewal land disposition proceeds smd certain other community development and public facility funds.
Sec. 919. Study regarding availability of housing proximate to places of employment.
Sec. 920. Allocation of funds under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
Sec. 921. Study on turning drug zones into opportunity zones.
Sec. 922. Community development plans.
Subtitle B—Disaster Relief
Sec. 931. Section 8 certificates and vouchers.
Sec. 932. Moderate rehabilitation.
Sec. 933. Community development.
Sec. 934. Rural housing.
Subtitle C—Regulatory Programs
Sec. 941. Mortgage servicing transfer disclosure.
Sec. 942. Mortgage escrow accounts.
Sec. 943. National Commission on Manufactured Housing.
Sec. 944. Energy assessment report.
Sec. 945. 5-year energy efficiency plan.
Sec. 946. Uniform mortgage financing plan for energy efficiency.
Sec. 947. Report on seismic safety property standarc^.
Subtitle D—Miscellaneous Programs
Sec. 951. HUD research and development.
Sec. 952. National Institute of Building Sciences.
Sec. 953. Fair housing initiatives program.
Sec. 954. Collection and maintenance of data regarding programs under HUD.
^ Sec. 955. Exemption from Davis-Bacon Act requirements of volunteers under housing programs.
Sec. 956. Eligibility under first-time homebuyer programs.
Sec. 957. Maximum annual limitation on rent increases resulting from employment.
Sec. 958. Preferences for Native Hawfdians on Haweiiian homelands under HUD
programs.
Sec. 959. Waiver of matching funds requirements in Indian housing programs.
Sec. 960. Study of pension fund financing of housing.
Sec. 961. Energy efficiency demonstration.
TITLE X—EXPEDITED FUNDS AVAILABILITY
Sec. 1001. Amendments to Expedited Funds Availability Act. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4085
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS AND
POLICIES
SEC. 101. THE NATIONAL HOUSING GOAL. 42 USC 12701.
The Congress affirms the national goal that every American
family be able to afford a decent home in a suitable environment.
SEC. 102. OBJECTIVE OF NATIONAL HOUSING POLICY. 42 USC 12702.
The objective of national housing policy shall be to reaffirm the
long-established national commitment to decent, safe, and sanitary
housing for every American by strengthening a nationwide partnership of public and private institutions able—
(1) to ensure that every resident of the United States has
access to decent shelter or assistance in avoiding homelessness;
(2) to increase the Nation's supply of decent housing that is
Eifibrdable to low-income and moderate-income families and
accessible to job opportunities;
(3) to improve housing opportunities for all residents of the
United States, particularly members of disadvantaged minorities, on a nondiscriminatory basis;
(4) to help make neighborhoods safe and livable;
(5) to expand opportunities for homeownership;
(6) to provide every American community with a reliable,
readily available supply of mortgage finance at the lowest
possible interest rates; and
(7) to encourage tenant empowerment and reduce
generational poverty in federally assisted and public housing by
improving the means by which self-sufficiency may be achieved.
SEC. 103. PURPOSES OF THE CRANSTON-GONZALEZ NATIONAL AFFORD- 42 USC 12703.
ABLE HOUSING ACT.
The purposes of this Act are—
(1) to help families not owning a home to save for a down
payment for the purchase of a home;
(2) to retain wherever feasible as housing affordable to lowincome families those dwelling units produced for such purpose
with Federal assistance;
(3) to extend and strengthen partnerships among all levels of
government and the private sector, including for-profit and
nonprofit organizations, in the production and operation of
housing affordable to low-income and moderate-income families;
(4) to expand and improve Federal rental assistance for very
low-income families; and
(5) to increase the supply of supportive housing, which combines structural features and services needed to enable persons
with special needs to live with dignity and independence.
SEC. 104. DEFINITIONS. 42 USC 12704.
As used in this title and in title XL
(1) The term "unit of general local government" means a city,
town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose
political subdivision of a State; Guam, the Northern Mariana
Islands, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Federated
States of Micronesia and Palau, the Marshall Islands, or a
general purpose political subdivision thereof; a consortium of
such political subdivisions recognized by the Secretary in 
104 STAT. 4086 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
accordance with section 216(2) of this Act; and any agency or
instrumentality thereof that is established pursuant to legislation and designated by the chief executive to act on behalf of the
jurisdiction with regard to provisions of this Act.
(2) The term "State" means any State of the United States,
the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico.
(3) The term "jurisdiction" means a State or unit of general
local government.
(4) The term "participating jurisdiction" means any State or
unit of general local government that has been so designated in
accordance with section 216 of this Act.
(5) The term "nonprofit organization" means any private,
nonprofit organization (including a State or locally chartered,
nonprofit organization) that—
(A) is organized under State or local laws,
(B) has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of
any member, founder, contributor, or individual,
(C) complies with standards of financial accountability
acceptable to the Secretary, and
(D) has among its purposes significant activities related to
the provision of decent housing that is affordable to lowincome and moderate-income persons.
(6) The term "community housing development organization"
means a nonprofit organization as defined in paragraph (5),
that—
(A) has among its purposes the provision of decent housing that is affordable to low-income and moderate-income
persons;
(B) maintains, through significant representation on the
organization's governing board and otherwise, accountability to low-income community residents and, to the extent
practicable, low-income beneficiaries with regard to decisions on the design, siting, development, and management
of affordable housing;
(C) has a demonstrated capacity for carrsdng out activities assisted under this Act; and
(D) has a history of serving the local community or
communities within which housing to be assisted under this
Act is to be located.
(7) The term "government-sponsored mortgage finance corporations" means the Federal National Mortgage Association,
the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and the Federal
Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
(8) The term "housing" includes manufactured housing and
manufactured housing lots.
(9) The term "very low-income families" means low-income
families whose incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the median
family income for the area, as determined by the Secretary with
adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that the
Secretary may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 50
percent of the median for the area on the basis of the Secretary's findings that such variations are necessary because of
prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or
unusually high or low family incomes.
(10) The term "low-income families" means families whose
incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4087
area, as determined by the Secretary with adjustments for
smaller and larger families, except that the Secretary may
establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the
median for the area on the basis of the Secretary's findings that
such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of
construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low
family incomes.
(11) The term "families" has the same meaning given that
term by section 3 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
(12) The term "security" has the same meaning as in section 2
of the Securities Act of 1933.
(13) The term "displaced homemaker" means an individual
who—
(A) is an adult;
(B) has not worked full-time full-year in the labor force
for a number of years but has, during such years, worked
primarily without remuneration to care for the home and
family; and
(C) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing
difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.
(14) The term "first-time homebuyer" means an individual
and his or her spouse who have not owned a home during the 3-
year period prior to purchase of a home with assistance under
title II, except that—
(A) any individual who is a displaced homemaker may
not be excluded from consideration as a first-time homebuyer under this paragraph on the basis that the individual, while a homemaker, owned a home with his or her
spouse or resided in a home owned by the spouse; and
(B) any individual who is a single parent may not be
excluded from consideration as a first-time homebuyer
under this paragraph on the basis that the individual, while
married, owned a home with his or her spouse or resided in
a home owned by the spouse.
(15) The term "single parent" means an individual who—
(A) is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and
(BXi) has 1 or more minor children for whom the individual has custody or joint custody; or
(ii) is pregnant.
(16) The term "Secretary" means the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development, unless otherwise specified in this Act.
(17) The term "substantial rehabilitation" means the rehabilitation of residential property at an average cost in excess
of $25,000 per dwelling unit.
(18) The term "public housing agency" has the meaning given
the term in section 3(b) of the United Stetes Housing Act of 1937
(42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
(19) The term "metropolitan city" has the meaning given the
term in section 102(aX4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(aX4)).
(20) The term "urban county" has the meaning given the
term in section 102(aX6) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302(aX6)).
(21) The term "certification" means a written assertion, based
on supporting evidence, which shall be kept available for inspection by the Secretary, the Inspector General and the public,
which assertion shall be deemed to be accurate for purposes of 
104 STAT. 4088 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
this Act, unless the Secretary determines otherwise after
inspecting the evidence and providing due notice and opportunity for comment.
(23) The term "to demonstrate to the Secretary" means to
submit to the Secretary a written assertion together with
supporting evidence that, in the determination of the Secretary,
supports the accuracy of the assertion.
42 us e 12705. SEC. 105. STATE AND LOCAL HOUSING STRATEGIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall provide assistance directly
to a jurisdiction only if—
(1) the jurisdiction submits to the Secretary a comprehensive
housing affordability strategy (hereafter in this section referred
to as the "housing strategy");
(2) the jurisdiction submits annual updates of the housing
strategy; and
(3) the housing strategy, and any annual update of such
strategy, is approved by the Secretary.
The Secretary shall establish such dates and manner for the submission and approval of housing strategies under this section that the
Secretary determines will facilitate orderly program management
by jurisdictions and provide for timely investment or other use of
funds made available under title II of this Act and other programs
requiring submission of a housing strategy. If the Secretary finds
there is good cause, the Secretary may provide reasonable extensions of any deadlines for submission of a jurisdiction's housing
strategy.
(b) CONTENTS.—A housing strategy submitted under this section
shall be in a form that the Secretary determines to be appropriate
for the assistance the jurisdiction may be provided and shall—
(1) describe the jurisdiction's estimated housing needs projected for the ensuing 5-year period, and the jurisdiction's need
for assistance for very low-income, low-income, and moderateincome families, specifying such needs for different types of
tenure and for different categories of residents, such as very
low-income, low-income, and moderate-income families, the
elderly, single persons, large families, residents of
nonmetropolitan areas, families who are participating in an
organized program to achieve economic independence and selfsufficiency, persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome,
and other categories of persons residing in or expected to reside
in the jurisdiction that the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
Homeless. (2) describe the nature and extent of homelessness within the
jurisdiction, providing an estimate of the special needs of various categories of persons who are homeless or threatened with
homelessness, and a description of the jurisdiction's strategy for
(A) helping low-income families avoid becoming homeless; (B)
addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing
needs of homeless persons (including a brief inventory of facilities and services that meet such needs within that jurisdiction);
and (C) helping homeless persons make the transition to permanent housing and independent living;
(3) describe the significant characteristics of the jurisdiction's
housing market, indicating how those characteristics will influence the use of funds made available for rental assistance. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4089
production of new units, rehabilitation of old units, or acquisition of existing units;
(4) explain whether the cost of housing or the incentives to
develop, maintain, or improve affordable housing in the jurisdiction are affected by public policies, particularly by policies of
the jurisdiction, including tax policies affecting land and other
property, land use controls, zoning ordinances, building codes,
fees and charges, growth limits, and policies that affect the
return on residential investment, and describe the jurisdiction's
strategy to remove or ameliorate negative effects, if any, of such
policies;
(5) explain the institutional structure, including private industry, nonprofit organizations, and public institutions, through
which the jurisdiction will carry out its housing strategy, assessing the strengths and gaps in that delivery system and describing what the jurisdiction will do to overcome those gaps;
(6) indicate resources from private and non-Federal public
sources that are reasonably expected to be made available to
carry out the purposes of this Act, explaining how funds made
available will leverage those additional resources and identifying, where the jurisdiction deems it appropriate, publicly owned
land or property located within the jurisdiction that may be
utilized to carry out the purposes of this Act;
(7) set forth the jurisdiction's plan for investment or other use
of housing funds made available under title II of this Act, the
United States Housing Act of 1937, the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, and the Stewart B. McKinney
Homeless Assistance Act, during the ensuing year or such
longer period as the Secretary determines to be appropriate,
indicating the general priorities for allocating investment geographically within the jurisdiction and among different activities and housing needs;
(8) describe the means of cooperation and coordination among
the State and any units of general local government in the
development, submission, and implementation of their housing
strategies;
(9) in the case of a unit of local government, describe the
number of public housing units in the jurisdiction, the physical
condition of such units, the restoration and revitalization needs
of public housing projects within the jurisdiction, the public
housing agency's strategy for improving the msmagement and
operation of such public housing, and the public housing
agency's strategy for improving the living environment of lowand very-low-income families residing in public housing;
(10) in the case of a State, describe the strategy to coordinate
the Low-Income Tax Credit with development of housing,
including public housing, that is affordable to very low-income
and low-income families;
(11) describe the jurisdiction's activities to encourage public
housing residents to become more involved in management and
participate in homeownership;
(12) describe the standards and procedures according to which
the jurisdiction will monitor activities authorized under this Act
and ensure long-term compliance with the provisions of this
Act;
(13) include a certification that the jurisdiction will affirmatively further fair housing; 
104 STAT. 4090 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Infants and
children.
Aged.
Handicapped.
Homeless.
(14) include a certification that the jurisdiction is in compliance with a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan under section 104(d) of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (to the extent that such a plan applies
to the jurisdiction); and
(15) include the number of families to whom the jurisdiction
will provide affordable housing as defined in section 215 using
funds made available.
The Secretary may provide for the submission of abbreviated housing strategies by jurisdictions that are not otherwise expected to be
participating jurisdictions under title II of this Act. Such an abbreviated housing strategy shall be appropriate to the types and
amounts of assistance the jurisdiction is to receive as determined by
the Secretary.
(c) APPROVAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall review the housing
strategy upon receipt. Not later than 60 days after receipt by
the Secretary, the housing strategy shall be approved unless the
Secretary determines before that date that (A) the housing
strategy is inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, or (B) the
information described in subsection (b) has not been provided in
a substantially complete manner. For Ihe purpose of the preceding sentence, the adoption or continuation of a public policy
identified pursuant to subsection (bX4) shall not be a basis for
the Secretary's disapproval of a housing strategy. During the
18-month period following enactment of this Act, the Secretary may extend the review period to not longer than 90
days.
(2) ACTIONS IN CASE OF DISAPPROVAL.—If the Secretary disapproves the housing strategy, the Secretary shall immediately
notify the jurisdiction of such disapproval. Not later than 15
days after the Secretary's disapproval, the Secretary shall
inform the jurisdiction in writing of (A) the reasons for disapproval, and (B) actions that the jurisdiction could take to
meet the criteria for approval. If the Secretary fails to inform
the jurisdiction of the reasons for disapproval within such 15-
day period, the housing strategy shall be deemed to have been
approved.
(3) AMENDMENTS AND RESUBMISSION.—The Secretary shall, for
a period of not less than 45 days following the date of first
disapproval, permit amendments to, or the resubmission of, any
housing strategy that is disapproved. The Secretary shall
approve or disapprove a housing strategy not less than 30
days after receipt of such amendments or resubmission.
(d) COORDINATION OF STATE AND LOCAL HOUSING STRATEGIES.—The
Secretary may establish such requirements as the Secretary deems
appropriate to encourage coordination between and among the housing strategies of a State and any participating jurisdictions within
the State, except that a unit of general local government shall not
be required to have elements of its housing strategy approved by the
State.
(e) (DoNSULTATioN WiTH SociAL SERVICE AGENCIES.—When preparing a housing strategy for submission under this section, a jurisdiction shall make reasonable efforts to confer with appropriate social
service agencies regarding the housing needs of children, elderly 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4091
persons, persons with disabilities, homeless persons, and other persons served by such agencies.
(f) BARRIER REMOVAL.—Not later than 4 months after completion Reports.
of the final report of the Secretary's Advisory Commission on Regulatory Barriers to Affordable Housing, the Secretary shall submit to
the Congress a written report outlining the Secretary's recommendations for legislative and administrative actions to facilitate
the removal or modification of excessive, duplicative, or unnecessary
regulations or other requirements of Federal, State, or local governments that (1) inflate the costs of or otherwise inhibit the construction, rehabilitation, or management of housing, particularly housing that otherwise could be affordable to low-income and
moderate-income families, or (2) contribute to economic or racial
discrimination.
SEC. 106. CERTIFICATION. 42 us e 12706.
The Secretary shall, by regulation or otherwise, as deemed by the Regulations.
Secretary to be appropriate, require any application for housing
assistance under title II of this Act, assistance under the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974, or assistance under the
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, to contain or be
accompanied by a certification by an appropriate State or local
public official that the proposed housing activities are consistent
with the housing strategy of the jurisdiction to be served.
SEC. 107. CITIZEN PARTICIPATION. 42 USC 12707.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Before submitting a housing strategy under this
section, a jurisdiction shall—
(1) make available to its citizens, public agencies, and other
interested parties information concerning the amount of assistance the jurisdiction expects to receive and the range of investment or other uses of such assistance that the jurisdiction may
undertake;
(2) publish a proposed housing strategy in a manner that, in
the determination of the Secretary, affords affected citizens,
public agencies, and other interested parties a reasonable opportunity to examine its content and to submit comments on the
proposed housing strategy;
(3) hold one or more public hearings to obtain the views of
citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties on the
housing needs of the jurisdiction; and
(4) provide citizens, public agencies, and other interested
parties with reasonable access to records regarding any uses of
any assistance the jurisdiction may have received during the
preceding 5 years.
Ot)) NOTICE AND COMMENT.—Before submitting any performance
report or substantial amendment to a housing strategy under this
section, a participating jurisdiction shall provide citizens with
reasonable notice of, and opportunity to comment on, such performance report or substantial amendment prior to its submission.
(c) CONSIDERATION OF COMMENTS.—A participating jurisdiction
shall consider any comments or views of citizens in preparing a final
housing strategy, amendment to a housing strategy or performance
report for submission. A summary of such comments or views shall
be attached when a housing strategy, amendment to a housing
strategy or performance report is submitted. The submitted housing
39-194 O - 91 - 25 : QL 3 Part 5 
104 STAT. 4092 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
strategy, amendment, or report shall be made available to the
public.
(d) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall by regulation establish
procedures appropriate and practicable for providing a fair hearing
and timely resolution of citizen complaints related to housing strategies or performance reports.
42 us e 12708. SEC. 108. COMPLIANCE.
(a) PERFORMANCE REPORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each participating jurisdiction shall annually review and report, in a form acceptable to the Secretary,
on the progress it has made in carrying out its housing strategy,
which report shall include an evaluation of the jurisdiction s
progress in meeting its goal established in section 105(bX15) of
this Act, and information on the number and types of households served, including the number of very low-income, low-
^ income, and moderate-income persons served and the racial and
ethnic status of persons served that will be assisted with funds
made available.
(2) SUBMISSION.—The Secretary shall (A) establish dates for
submission of reports under this subsection, and (B) review such
reports and make such recommendations as the Secretary
deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(3) FAILURE TO REPORT.—If a jurisdiction fails to submit a
report satisfactory to the Secretary in a timely manner, assistance to the jurisdiction under title II of this Act or the other
programs referred to in section 106 may be—
(A) suspended until a report satisfactory to the Secretary
is submitted; or
(B) withdrawn and reallocated if the Secretary finds,
after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the jurisdiction will not submit a satisfactory report.
(b) PERFORMANCE REVIEW BY SECRETARY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure that activities of
each jurisdiction required to submit a housing strategy under
section 105 are reviewed not less frequently than annually.
Such review shall include, insofar as practicable, on-site visits
by employees of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and shall include an assessment of the jurisdiction's—
(A) management of funds made available under programs
administered by the Secretary;
(B) compliance with its housing strategy;
(C) accuracy in the preparation of performance reports
under subsection (a); and
(D) efforts to ensure that housing assisted under programs administered by the Secretary are in compliance
with contractual agreements and the requirements of law.
(2) REPORT BY THE SECRETARY.—The Secretary shall report on
the performance review in writing. The Secretary shall give the
jurisdiction not less than 30 days to review and comment on the
report. After taking into consideration the comments of the
jurisdiction, the Secretary may revise the report and shall make
the jurisdiction's comments and the report, with any revisions,
readily available to the public within 30 days after receipt of the
jurisdiction's comments.
(c) REVIEW BY COURTS.—The adequacy of information submitted
under section 105(bX4) shall not be reviewable by any Federal, State, 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4093
or other court. Review of a housing strategy by £iny Federal, State,
or other court shall be limited to determining whether the process of
development and the content of the strategy are in substantial
compliance with the requirements of this Act. During the pendency
of any action challenging the adequacy of a housing strategy or the
action of the Secretary in approving a strategy, the court shall not
have the authority to enjoin activities taken by the jurisdiction to
implement an approved housing strategy. Any housing assisted
during the pendency of such action shall not be subject to any order
of the court resulting from such action.
SEC. 109. ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS. 42 USC 12709.
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall, not later
than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, promulgate
energy efficiency standards for new construction of public and
assisted housing and single-family and multifamily residential housing (other than manufactured homes) subject to mortgages under
the National Housing Act. Such standards shall meet or exceed the
provisions of the most recent edition of the Model Energy Code of
the Council of American Building Officials and shall be cost-effective with respect to construction and operating costs. In developing
such standards the Secretary shall consult with an advisory task
force composed of homebuilders, national, State, and local housing
agencies (including public housing agencies), energy agencies and
building code organizations and agencies, energy efficiency organizations, utility organizations, low-income housing organizations, and
other parties designated by the Secretary.
SEC. 110. CAPACITY STUDY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure that the Department
of Housing and Urban Development has adequate capacity and
resources, including staff and training programs, to carry out its
mission and responsibilities, and to implement the provisions of this
Act, including the ability of the Department to carry out the multifamily mortgage insurance program.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and
submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs of the House of Representatives a study detailing the Department's plan to maintain such capacity, together with any recommendations for legislative and administrative action as the
Secretary determines to be appropriate.
SEC. 111. PROTECTION OF STATE AND LOCAL AUTHORITY. 42 USC 12711.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this title or title II, the
Secretary shall not establish any criteria for allocating or denjdng
funds made available under programs administered by the Secretary based on the adoption, continuation, or discontinuation by a
jurisdiction of any public policy, regulation, or law that is (1)
adopted, continued, or discontinued in accordance with the jurisdiction's duly established authority, and (2) not in violation of any
Federal law.
Business and
industry.
Intergovernmental
relations.
42 USC 12710. 
104 STAT. 4094 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
HOME
Investment
Partnerships
Act.
42 us e 12701
note.
42 us e 12721.
TITLE II—INVESTMENT IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the "HOME Investment Partnerships
Act".
SEC. 202. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds that—
(1) the Nation has not made adequate progress toward the
goal of national housing policy, as set out in the Housing Act of
1949 and reaffirmed in the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1968, which would provide decent, safe, sanitary, and
affordable living environments for all Americans;
(2) the supply of affordable rental housing is diminishing;
(3) the Tax Reform Act of 1986 removed major tax incentives
for the production of affordable rental housing;
(4) the living environments of an increasing number of Americans have deteriorated over the past several years as a result of
reductions in Federal assistance to low-income and moderateincome families;
(5) many Americans face the possibility of homelessness
unless Federal, State, and local governments work together
with the private sector to develop and rehabilitate the housing
stock of the Nation to provide decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing for very low-income and low-income families;
(6) reliable Federal leadership is needed to achieve an adequate supply of affordable housing for all Americans;
(7) to acMeve the goal of national housing policy, there is a
need to strengthen nationwide a cost-effective community-based
housing partnership designed to—
(A) expand the supply of rental housing that is affordable
to very low-income and low-income families,
(B) improve homeownership opportunities for low-income
families,
(C) carry out comprehensive housing strategies tailored to
local housing market conditions, and
(D) protect the Federal, State, and local investment in
low-income housing to ensure affordability of the housing
for the remaining useful life of the property;
(8) direct assistance to expand the supply of affordable rental
housing should be provided in a way that is more cost-effective
and targeted than tax incentives;
(9) much of the Nation's housing system works very well and
provides a strong base on which national housing policy should
build;
(10) an increasing number of States and loceil governments
have been successful in producing cost-effective low-income and
moderate-income housing by working in partnership with the
private sector, including nonprofit community development corporations, community action agencies, neighborhooid housing
services corporations, trade unions, groups sponsored by religious organizations, limited equity cooperatives, and other
tenant organizations; 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4095
(11) during the 1980's, nonprofit community housing development organizations, despite severe obstacles caused by inadequate funding, have played an increasingly important role in
the production and rehabilitation of affordable housing in
communities across the Nation;
(12) additional financial resources and technical skills must
be made available in loceil communities if the Nation is to
mobilize the capacity of the private sector, including nonprofit
community housing development organizations, to provide a
more adequate supply of decent, safe, and sanitary housing that
is affordable to very low-income, low-income, and moderateincome families and meets the need for large family units and
other additional units that are available to very low-income
families receiving rental assistance payments from Federal,
State, and local governments; and
(13) the long-term success of efforts to provide more affordable
housing depends upon tenants and homeowners being fiscally
responsible and able managers.
SEC. 203. PURPOSES. 42 USC 12722.
The purposes of this title are—
(1) to expand the supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing, with primary attention to rental housing, for very
low-income and low-income Americans;
(2) to mobilize and strengthen the abilities of States and units
of general local government throughout the United States to
design and implement strategies for achieving an adequate
supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing;
(3) to provide participating jurisdictions, on a coordinated
basis, with the various forms of Federal housing assistance,
including capital investment, mortgage insurance, rental assistance, and other Federal assistance, needed—
(A) to expand the supply of decent, safe, sanitary, and
affordable housing;
(B) to make new construction, rehabilitation, substantial
rehabilitation, and acquisition of such housing feasible; and
(C) to promote the development of partnerships among
the Federal Government, States and units of general local
government, private industry, and nonprofit organizations
able to utilize effectively all available resources to provide
more of such housing;
(4) to make housing more affordable for very low-income and
low-income families through the use of tenant-based rental
assistance;
(5) to develop and refine, on an ongoing basis, a selection of
model programs incorporating the most effective methods for
providing decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing, and
accelerate the application of such methods where appropriate
throughout the United States to achieve the prudent and efficient use of funds made available under this title;
(6) to expand the capacity of nonprofit community housing
development organizations to develop and manage decent, safe,
sanitary, and affordable housing;
(7) to ensure that Federal investment produces housing stock
that is available and affordable to low-income families for the
property's remaining useful life, is appropriate to the neighbor-
104 STAT. 4096 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
hood surroundings, and, wherever appropriate, is mixed income
housing;
(8) to increase the investment of private capital and the use of
private sector resources in the provision of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing;
(9) to allocate Federal funds for investment in affordable
housing among participating jurisdictions by formula allocation;
(10) to leverage those funds insofar as practicable with State
and local matching contributions and private investment;
(11) to establish for each participating jurisdiction a HOME
Investment Trust Fund with a line of credit for investment in
affordable housing, with repa3nnents back to its HOME Investment Trust Fund being made available for reinvestment by the
jurisdiction;
(12) to provide credit enhancement for affordable housing by
utilizing the capacities of existing agencies and mortgage finance institutions when most efficient and supplementing their
activities when appropriate; and
(13) to assist very low-income and low-income families to
obtsiin the skills and knowledge necessary to become responsible
homeowners and tenants.
42 us e 12723. SEC. 204. COORDINATED FEDERAL SUPPORT FOR HOUSING STRATEGIES.
The Secretary shall make assistance under this title available to
participating jurisdictions, through the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-FHA Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to the maximum extent practicable, in
coordination with mortgage insurance, rental assistance, and other
housing assistance appropriate to the efficient and timely completion of activities under this title.
42 us e 12724. SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION.
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title
$1,000,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and $2,086,000,000 for fiscal year
1992, of which—
(1) not more than $14,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and
$14,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, shall be for community housing
partnership activities authorized under section 233; and
(2) not more than $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, and
$11,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, shall be for activities in
support of State and local housing strategies authorized under
subtitle C.
42 us e 12725. SEC. 206. NOTICE.
Regulations. The Secretary shall issue regulations to implement the provisions
of this title after notice and an opportunity for comment pursuant to
section 553 of title 5, United States Code. Such regulations shall
become effective not later than 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act.
Subtitle A—HOME Investment Partnerships
42 us e 12741. SEC. 211. AUTHORITY.
The Secretary is authorized to make funds available to participating jurisdictions for investment to increase the number of families 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4097
served with decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable housing and
expand the long-term supply of affordable housing in accordance
with provisions of this subtitle.
SEC. 212. ELIGIBLE USES OF INVESTMENT. 42 USC 12742.
(a) HOUSING USES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds made available under this subtitle
may be used by participating jurisdictions to provide incentives
to develop and support affordable rental housing and
homeownership affordability through the acquisition, new
construction, reconstruction, or moderate or substantial
rehabilitation of affordable housing, including real property
acquisition, site improvement, conversion, demolition, and other
expenses, including financing costs, relocation expenses of any
displaced persons, families, businesses, or organizations, and to
provide tenant-based rental assistance.
(2) PREFERENCE TO REHABIUTATION.—A participating jurisdiction shall give preference to rehabilitation of substandard housing unless the jurisdiction determines that—
(A) such rehabilitation is not the most cost effective way
to meet the jurisdiction's need to expand the supply of
affordable housing; and
(B) the jurisdiction's housing needs cannot be met
through rehabilitation of the available stock.
The Secretary shall not restrict a participating jurisdiction's
choice of rehabilitation, substantial rehabilitation, new
construction, reconstruction, acquisition, or other eligible housing use unless such restriction is explicitly authorized under
paragraph (3) of this subsection or under section 223(2).
(3) CONDITIONS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Funds made available under this subtitle may be used (at the discretion of a participating jurisdiction) for new construction of housing only if the housing
is to serve a local market area that, in the determination of
the Secretary has—
(i) an inadequate supply of housing at rentals below
the fair market rent established for the area under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, and
(ii) a severe shortage of substandard residential structures in the jurisdiction that are suitable for rehabilitation as affordable rental housing.
(B) ESTABLISHMENT OF CRITERIA.—The Secretary shall
publish—
(i) obiective criteria for determining whether a jurisdiction s housing supply is sufficiently inadequate to
permit new construction pursuant to subparagraph (A),
and
(ii) a list of jurisdictions that in the determination of
the Secretary meet those criteria.
The Secretary shall give reasonable opportunity for jurisdictions not designated on the published list to demonstrate, on the basis of additional information, that they
meet the criteria. Such criteria shall permit new construction by not fewer than 30 percent of the jurisdictions receiving an allocation under section 216(1). Such criteria shall
include objective data on housing market conditions such as 
104 STAT. 4098 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
low vacancy rates, low turnover of units with rents below
fair market rents, and a high proportion of substandard
housing.
(C) NEIGHBORHOOD REVITAUZATION.—Notwithstanding
subparagraph (A), a participating jurisdiction may use
funds made available under this subtitle for construction of
affordable housing if the participating jurisdiction certifies
that—
(i) the program of construction is needed to facilitate
a neighborhood revitalization program that emphasizes
rehabilitation of substandard housing for rental or
homeownership opportunities by low-income and moderate-income families in an area designated by the
jurisdiction;
(ii) the housing is located in a low- or moderateincome neighborhood, as defined in section 10(j)(13) of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Act;
(iii) the number of units to be constructed with assistance under this subtitle does not exceed 20 percent of
the total number of units in the neighborhood revitalization program that are assisted with funds under this
subtitle; and
(iv) the housing is to be produced by a community
housing development organization, as defined in section 104(6), or a public agency.
(D) APPLICABIUTY.—Clause (iii) of subparagraph (C) shall
not apply if the jurisdiction certifies that—
(i) the housing is to be located in a severely distressed
area with large tracts of vacant land and abandoned
buildings,
(ii) the housing is to be located in an area with an
inadequate supply of existing housing that can
economically be rehabilitated to meet identified housing needs, or
(iii) the new construction is required to accomplish
the neighborhood revitalization program.
(E) SPECIAL NEEDS HOUSING.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), a participating jurisdiction may use funds made
available under this subtitle for construction of—
(i) affordable housing for large families;
(ii) affordable housing for persons with disabilities;
(iii) single room occupancy housing; and
(iv) other categories of affordable housing for persons
with special needs that the Secretary may designate;
if the participating jurisdiction certifies on the basis of
objective data in its annual housing strategy that a high
priority need for such housing exists in the jurisdiction, and
that there is not a supply of vacant, habitable, public
housing units in excess of normal vacancies resulting from
turnovers that could meet the specified need.
(4) TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A participating jurisdiction may use
funds provided under this subtitle for tenant-based rental
assistance only if—
(i) the jurisdiction certifies that the use of funds
under this subtitle for tenant-beised rental assistance is 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4099
an essential element of the jurisdiction's annual housing strategy for expanding the supply, affordability,
and availability of decent, safe, sanitary, and affordable
housing, and specifies the local market conditions that
lead to the choice of this option; and
(ii) the tenant-based rental assistance is provided to
persons from the waiting lists eligible for section 8
Eissistance in accordance with the applicable
preferences.
(B) FAIR SHARE NOT AFFECTED.—A jurisdiction's section 8
fair share allocation shall be unaffected by the use of
assistance under this title.
(C) 24-MONTH CONTRACTS.—Rental assistance contracts
made available with assistance under this title shall be for
not more than 24 months, except that assistance to a family
may be renewed.
(D) USE OF SECTION 8 ASSISTANCE.—In any case where
assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 becomes available to a participating jurisdiction,
recipients of rental assistance under this title shall qualify
for tenant selection preferences to the same extent as when
they received the rental assistance under this title. A rental
assistance program under this title shall meet minimum
criteria prescribed by the Secretary, such as housing quality standards and standards regarding the reasonableness
of the rent.
(b) INVESTMENTS.—Participating jurisdictions shall have discretion
to invest funds made available under this subtitle as equity investments, interest-bearing loans or advances, noninterest-bearing loans
or advances, interest subsidies or other forms of assistance that the
Secretary has determined to be consistent with the purposes of this
title. Each participating jurisdiction shall have the right to establish
the terms of assistance.
(c) PROHIBITED USES.—Funds made available under this subtitle
may not be used to—
(1) defray any administrative cost of a participating
jurisdiction,
(2) provide tenant-bsised rental assistance for the special purposes of the existing section 8 program, including replacing
public housing that is demolished or disposed of, preserving
federally assisted housing, assisting in the disposition of housing
owned or held by the Secretary, preventing displacement from
rental rehabilitation projects, or extending or renewing tenantbased assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937,
(3) provide non-Federal matching contributions required
under any other Federal program,
(4) provide assistance authorized under section 9 of the United
States Housing Act of 1937,
(5) carry out activities authorized under section 14 of the
Housing Act of 1937, or
(6) provide assistance to eligible low-income housing under
the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987
or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident
Homeownership Act of 1990.
(d) COST LIMITS.— 
104 STAT. 4100 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish limits on the
amount of funds under this subtitle that may be invested on a
per unit basis. The limits shall be established on a market-bymarket basis, with adjustments made for number of bedrooms,
and shall reflect the actual cost of new construction, reconstruction, or rehabilitation of housing that meets applicable State
and local housing and building codes and the cost of land,
including necessary site improvements. Adjustments shall be
made amnually to reflect inflation. Separate limits may be set
for different eligible activities.
(2) CRITERIA.—In calculating per unit limits, the Secretary
shall take into account that assistance under this title is
intended to—
(A) provide nonluxury housing with suitable amenities;
(B) operate effectively in all jurisdictions;
(C) facilitate mixed-income housing; and
(D) reflect the costs associated with meeting the special
needs of tenants or homeowners that the housing is
designed to serve.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In calculating cost limits, the Secretary
shall consult with organizations that have expertise in the
development of affordable housing, including nationed nonprofit
organizations and national organizations representing private
development Arms and State and local governments.
(e) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.—The requirements of section
102(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
Reform Act of 1989 shall be satisfied by a certification by a participating jurisdiction to the Secretary that the combination of Federal
assistance provided to any housing project shall not be any more
than is necessary to provide affordable housing.
42 us e 12743. SEC. 213. DEVELOPMENT OF MODEL PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
Nonprofit (1) in Cooperation with participating jurisdictions, governorganizations. ment-sponsored mortgage finance corporations, nonprofit
kidust^ organizations, the private sector, and other appropriate parties,
develop, test, evaluate, refine, and, as necessary, replace a
selection of model programs designed to carry out the purposes
of this title;
(2) make available to participating jurisdictions alternative
model programs, which shall include suggested guidelines,
procedures, forms, legal documents and such other elements as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
(3) assure, insofar as is feasible, the availability of an appropriate variety of model programs designed for local market
conditions, housing problems, project characteristics, and managerial capacities as they differ £unong participating
jurisdictions;
Government (4) negotiate and enter into agreements with agencies of the
contracts. Federal Government, participating jurisdictions, private financial institutions, government-sponsored mortgage finance corporations, nonprofit organizations, and other entities to provide
such services, products, or financing as may be required for the
implementation of a model program;
(5) provide detailed information on model programs as requested by participating jurisdictions, private financial institu-
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4101
tions, developers, nonprofit organizations, and other interested
parties; and
(6) encourage the use of such model programs to achieve
efficiency, economies of scale, and effectiveness in the investment of funds made available under this subtitle through thirdparty training, printed materials, and such other means of
support as the Secretary determines will achieve the purpose of
this title.
Ob) ADOPTION OF PROGRAMS.—Except as provided in section 223(2),
each participating jurisdiction shall have the discretion to adopt one
or more model programs, adapt one or more model programs to its
own requirements, design additional forms of assistsmce by itself or
in cooperation with other participating jurisdictions, and suggest
additional model programs for adoption by the Secretary as the
participating jurisdiction may deem appropriate, and the Secretary
may assist a participating jurisdiction in adopting, adapting, or
designing one or more model programs.
(c) SUBTITLE D PROGRAMS.—The selection of model programs to be
made available for adoption or adaptation shall include programs
meeting the criteria set forth in subtitle D.
SEC. 214. INCOME TARGETING. 42 USC 12744.
Each participating jurisdiction shall invest funds made available
under this subtitle within each fiscal year so that—
(1) with respect to rental assistance and rental units—
(A) not less than -90 percent of such funds are invested
with respect to dwelling units that are occupied by families
whose incomes do not exceed 60 percent of the median
family income for the area, as determined by the Secretary
with adjustments for smaller and larger families, (except
that the Secretary may establish income ceilings higher or
lower than 60 percent of the median for the area on the
basis of the Secretary's findings that such variations are
necessary because of prevailing levels of construction cost
or fair market rent, or unusually high or low family
income) at the time of occupancy or at the time funds are
invested, whichever is later, and
(B) the remainder of such funds are invested with respect
to dwelling units that are occupied by households that
quEilify as low-income families (other than families described in subparagraph (A)) at the time of occupancy or at
the time funds are invested, whichever is later;
(2) with respect to homeownership assistance, 100 percent of
such funds are invested with respect to dwelling units that are
occupied by households that qualify as low-income families at
the time of occupancy or at the time funds are invested, whichever is later; and
(3) all such funds are invested with respect to housing that
qualifies £is affordable housing under section 215.
SEC. 215. QUALIFICATION AS AFFORDABLE HOUSING. 42 USC 12745.
(a) RENTAL HOUSING.—
(1) QUALIFICATION.—Housing that is for rental shall qualify as
affordable housing under this title only if the housing—
(A) bears rents not greater than the lesser of (i) the
existing fair market rent for comparable units in the area
as established by the Secretary under section 8 of the 
104 STAT. 4102 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
United States Housing Act of 1937, or (ii) a rent that does
not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family
whose income equals 65 percent of the median income for
the area, as determined by the Secretary, with adjustment
for smaller and larger families, except that the Secretary
may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 65
percent of the median for the area on the basis of the
Secretary's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair
market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes;
(B) has not less than 20 percent of the units (i) occupied
by very low-income families who pay as a contribution
toward rent (excluding any Federal or State rental subsidy
provided on behalf of the family) not more than 30 percent
of the family's monthly adjusted income as determined by
the Secretary, or (ii) occupied by very low-income families
and bearing rents not greater than the gross rent for rentrestricted residential units as determined under section
42(gX2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(C) is occupied only by households that qualify as lowincome families;
(D) is not refused for leasing to a holder of a voucher or
certificate of eligibility under section 8 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 because of the status of the prospective
tenant as a holder of such voucher or certificate of
eligibility;
(E) will remain affordable, according to binding commitments satisfactory to the Secretary, for the remaining
useful life of the property, as determined by the Secretary,
without regard to the term of the mortgage or to transfer of
ownership, or for such other period that the Secretary
determines is the longest feasible period of time consistent
with sound economics and the purposes of this Act; and
(F) if newly constructed, meets the energy efficiency
standards promulgated by the Secretary in accordance with
section 109 of this Act.
(2) ADJUSTMENT OF QUALIFYING RENT.—The Secretary may
adjust the qualif3dng rent established for a project under
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1), only if the Secretary finds
that such adjustment is necessary to support the continued
financial viability of the project and only by such amount as the
Secretary determines is necessary to maintain continued financial viability of the project.
(3) INCREASES IN TENANT INCOME.—Housing shall qualify as
affordable housing despite a temporary noncompliance with
subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) if such noncompliance
is caused by increases in the incomes of existing tenants and if
actions satisfactory to the Secretary are being taken to ensure
that all vacancies are filled in accordance with paragraph (1)
until such noncompliance is corrected. Tenants who no longer
qualify as low-income families shall pay as rent not less than 30
percent of the family's adjusted monthly income, as recertified
annually.
(4) MIXED-INCOME PROJECT.—Housing that accounts for less
than 100 percent of the dwelling units in a project shall qualify
as affordable housing if such housing meets the criteria of th ^
section. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4103
(5) MIXED-USE PROJECT.—Housing in a project that is designed
in part for uses other than residential use shall qualify as
affordable housing if such housing meets the criteria of this
section.
(b) HoMEOWNERSHiP.—Housing that is for homeownership shall
qualify as affordable housing under this title only if the housing—
(1) has an initial purchase price that does not exceed 95
percent of the median purchase price for the area, as determined by the Secretary with such adjustments for differences in
structure, including whether the housing is single-family or
multifamily, and for new and old housing as the Secretary
determines to be appropriate;
(2) is the principal residence of an owner whose family qualifies as a low-income family at the time of purchase;
(3) is made available for initial purchase only to first-time
homebuyers;
(4) is made available for subsequent purchase only—
(A) to persons who meet the qualifications specified under
paragraph (2), and
(B) at a price consistent with guidelines that are established by the participating jurisdiction and determined by
the Secretary to be appropriate—
(i) to provide the owner with a fair return on investment, including any improvements, and
(ii) to ensure that the housing will remain affordable
to a reasonable range of low income homebuyers; and
(5) if newly constructed, meets the energy efficiency standards
promulgated by the Secretary in accordance with section 109 of
this Act.
SEC. 216. PARTICIPATION BY STATES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS. 42 USC 12746.
The Secretary shall designate a State or unit of general local Regulations.
government to be a participating jurisdiction when it complies with
procedures that the Secretary shall establish by regulation, which
procedures shall only provide for the following:
(1) ALLOCATION.—Not later than 20 days after funds to carry
out this subtitle become available (or, during the first year after
enactment of this Act, not later than 20 days after (A) funds to
carry out this subtitle are provided in an appropriations Act, or
(B) regulations to implement this subtitle are promulgated,
whichever is later), the Secretary shall allocate funds in accordance with section 217 and promptly notify each jurisdiction
receiving a formula allocation of its allocation amount. If a
jurisdiction is not already a participating jurisdiction, the Secretary shall inform the jurisdiction in writing how the jurisdiction may become a participating jurisdiction.
(2) CONSORTIA.—A consortium of geographically contiguous
units of general local government shall be deemed to be a unit
of general local government for purposes of this title if the
Secretary determines that the consortium—
(A) has sufficient authority and administrative capability
to carry out the purposes of this title on behalf of its
member jurisdictions, and
(B) will, according to a written certification by the State
(or States, if the consortium includes jurisdictions in more
than one State), direct its activities to alleviation of housing
problems within the State or States. 
104 STAT. 4104 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
(3) EuGiBiLiTY.—(A) A jurisdiction receiving a formula allocation under section 217 shall be eligible to become a participating
jurisdiction if its formula allocation is $750,000 or greater, or if
the Secretary finds that—
(i) the jurisdiction has a local housing authority and has
demonstrated a capacity to carry out provisions of this
subtitle, and
(ii) the State has authorized the Secretary to transfer to
the jurisdiction a portion of the State's allocation that is
equal to or greater than the difference between the jurisdiction's formula allocation and $750,000, or the State or
jurisdiction has made available from the State's or jurisdiction's own sources an equal amount for use by the jurisdiction in conformance with the provisions of this subtitle.
(B) If a jurisdiction heis met the requirements of subparagraph
(A), the jurisdiction's formula allocation for a fiscal year shall
subsequently be deemed to equal the sum of the jurisdiction's
allocation under section 217(a)(1) and the amount made available to the jurisdiction under subparagraph (AXii).
(4) NOTIFICATION.—If an eligible jurisdiction notifies the
Secretary in writing, not later than 30 days after receiving
notification under paragraph (1), of its intention to become a
participating jurisdiction, the Secretary shall reserve an
amount equal to the jurisdiction's gdlocation (plus any
reallocations for which the jurisdiction is eligible under section
217(dXl)) pending the jurisdiction's designation as a participating jurisdiction. The Secretary shall reallocate, in accordemce
with paragraph (6) of this section, any funds reserved under the
previous sentence if the Secretary determines that the jurisdiction will not meet the requirements for designation as a participating jurisdiction within a reasonable period of time.
(5) SUBMISSION OF STRATEGY.—Not later than 90 days after
providing notification under paragraph (4), an eligible jurisdiction shall submit to the Secretary a comprehensive housing
affordability strategy in accordance with section 105.
(6) REALLOCATION.—If the Secretary determines that a jurisdiction has failed to meet the requirements of the previous 3
paragraphs or if the Secretary, after providing for amendments
and resubmissions in accordance with section 105(c)(3), disapproves the jurisdiction's comprehensive housing affordability
strategy, the Secretary shgdl reallocate any funds reserved for
the jurisdiction as follows:
(A) STATE.—If a State has failed to meet the requirements, the Secretary shall—
(i) make any funds reserved for the State available by
direct reallocation among applications submitted by
units of general local government within the State or
consortia that include units of general local government within the State, insofar as approvable applications meeting the selection criteria under section 217(c)
are received within 12 months after the funds become
available for the direct reallocation, and
(ii) reallocate the remainder by formula in accordance with section 217(b).
(B) LOCAL.—If a unit of general local government has
failed to meet the requirements and is located in a State
that is a participating jurisdiction, the Secretary shall re-
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4105
allocate to the State any funds reserved for the locality,
with preference going to the provision of affordable housing
within the locality.
(C) DIRECT REALLOCATION.—If a unit of general local
government has failed to meet the requirements and is
located in a State that is not a participating jurisdiction,
the Secretary shall—
(i) make any funds reserved for the locality available
for use within the State by direct reallocation among
units of general local government and community
housing development organizations, insofar as approvable applications meeting the selection criteria under
section 217(c) are received within 12 months after the
funds become available for the direct reallocation with
priority going to applications for affordable housing
within the locality, and
(ii) reallocate the remainder in accordance with section 217(b).
(D) CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS DEEMED TO BE PARTICIPATING
JURISDICTIONS.—If a State or unit of general local government is meeting the requirements of paragraphs (3), (4), and
(5), it shall be deemed to be a participating jurisdiction for
purposes of reallocation under this paragraph.
(7) DESIGNATION.—The Secretary shall designate an eligible
jurisdiction to be a participating jurisdiction as soon as its
comprehensive housing affordability strategy is approved in
accordance with section 105.
(8) CONTINUOUS DESIGNATION.—Once a State or unit of general
local government is designated a participating jurisdiction, it
shall remain a participating jurisdiction for subsequent fiscal
years, except as provided in paragraph (9). The provisions of
paragraphs (3) through (6) shall not apply to participating
jurisdictions.
(9) REVOCATION.—The Secretary may revoke a jurisdiction's
designation as a participating jurisdiction if—
(A) the Secretary finds, after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing, that the jurisdiction is unwilling or
unable to carry out the provisions of this title, or
(B) the jurisdiction's allocation falls below $750,000 for 3
consecutive years, below $625,000 for 2 consecutive years, or
the jurisdiction does not receive a formula allocation of
$500,000 or more in any 1 year.
If a jurisdiction's designation as a participating jurisdiction is
revoked, any remaining line of credit in the jurisdiction's
HOME Investment Trust Fund established under section 218
shall be reallocated in accordance with paragraph (6) of this
section.
SEC. 217. ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES. 42 USC 12747.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) STATES AND UNITS OF GENERAL LOCAL GOVERNMENT.—After
reserving amounts for Indian tribes as required by paragraph
(2) of this subsection, the Secretary shall allocate funds approved in an appropriations Act to carry out this title by
formula as provided in subsection (b). Of the funds made available under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall initially 
104 STAT. 4106 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
allocate 60 percent among units of general local government
and 40 percent among States.
Grant programs. (2) INDIAN ALLOCATION.—For each fiscal year, of the amount
approved in an appropriations Act to carry out this title, the
Secretary shall reserve for grants to Indian tribes 1 percent of
the amount appropriated under such section. The Secretary
shall provide for distribution of amounts under this paragraph
to Indian tribes on the basis of a competition conducted pursuant to specific criteria for the selection of Indian tribes to
Regulations. receive such amounts. The criteria shall be contained in a
regulation promulgated by the Secretary after notice and public
comment.
0>) FORMULA ALLOCATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) RENTAL HOUSING PRODUCTION FORMULA.—(i) Of the
funds made available under subsection (aXl), the Secretary
shall designate 10 percent in fiscal year 1991, and 15 percent in fiscal year 1992, for use only to produce affordable
rental housing through new construction or substantial
rehabilitation. Such funds shall be initially allocated by
formula among jurisdictions that, according to the determination of the Secretary under section 212(a)(3)(B), have a
housing supply sufficiently inadequate to permit new
construction. The allocation among States shall reflect each
State's share of the need in areas that meet the criteria
established by the Secretary under section 212(a)(3)(B). Such
formula shall reflect each eligible jurisdiction's share of the
total need among all eligible jurisdictions for rental housing
production as identified by objective measures of inadequate housing supply, including low vacancy rates, low
turnover of units with rents below fair market rents, a high
proportion of substandard housing, and other measures
that the Secretary determines are appropriate under section 212(a)(3)(B). In no case may a jurisdiction's total allocation under this subparagraph and subparagraph (B) exceed
the amount the jurisdiction would have received if its
allocation were made under subparagraph (B) alone.
(ii) Any amounts made available under clause (i) that are
not committed for new construction or substantial rehabilitation within a period ending 12 months after they
are deposited in a jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust
Fund shall remain available only for such purposes during
a subsequent 12-month period, after which they shall be
available for other eligible uses in accordance with section
212 for an additional period of not to exceed 12 months.
Regulations. (B) BASIC FORMULA.—The Secretary shall establish in
regulation an allocation formula that reflects each jurisdiction's share of total need among eligible jurisdiction for an
increased supply of affordable housing for very low-income
and low-income families of different size, as identified by
objective measures of inadequate housing supply, substandard housing, the number of low-income families in
housing likely to be in need of rehabilitation, the costs of
producing housing, poverty, and the relative fiscal incapacity of the jurisdiction to carry out housing activities eligible
under section 212 without Federal assistance. Allocation
among units of general local government shall take into 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4107
account the housing needs of metropolitan cities, urban
counties, and approved consortia of units of general local
government.
(C) SOURCE OF DATA.—The data to be used for formula
allocation of funds within a fiscal year shall be data obtained from a standard source that are available to the
Secretary 90 days prior to the beginning of that fiscal year.
(D) USE OF BASIC FORMULA.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (A), the beisic formula established under
subparagraph (B) shall be used for all formula allocations
and reallocations provided for in this subtitle.
(E) WEIGHTS.—When eillocation is made among States,
the Secretary shall apply the formulas in subparagraph (B)
giving 20 percent weight to measures of need for the whole
State and 80 percent weight to measures of need among
units of general local government that are not receiving an
allocation under section 216(1).
(F) ADJUSTMENTS.—In developing the basic formula in
subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall (i) avoid the allocation of an excessively large share of amounts made available under this subtitle to any one State or unit of general
local government, and (ii) take into account the need for a
geographic distribution of amounts made available under
this subtitle that appropriately reflects the housing need in
each region of the Nation. If a jurisdiction receives an
allocation under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
make such adjustments in the jurisdiction's allocation
under the formula in subparagraph (B) as may be necessary
to ensure that the combined effect of the formulas in
subparagraphs (A) and (B) does not reduce the allocation of
any jurisdiction below the allocation it would receive if
allocations were made according to the formula under
subparagraph (B) alone.
(G) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall develop the formulas in subparagraphs (A) and (B) in ongoing consultation
with (i) the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs of
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
the Senate, (ii) the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Development of the Committee on Banking, Finance
and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, and (iii)
organizations representing States and units of general local
government. Not less than 60 days prior to publishing a
formula for comment, the Secretary shall submit to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs of the House of Representatives a copy of the formula the Secretary intends to propose.
(2) MINIMUM STATE ALLOCATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the formula, when applied to funds
approved under this section in appropriations Acts for a
fiscal year, would allocate less than $3,000,000 to any State,
the allocation for such State shall be $3,000,000, and the
increase shall be deducted pro rata from the allocations of
other States.
(B) INCREASED MINIMUM ALLOCATION.—If no unit of general local government within a State receives an allocation
under paragraph (3), the State's allocation shall be in-
104 STAT. 4108 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
creased by $500,000. Priority for use of such increased
allocation shall go to the provision of affordable housing
within the boundaries of metropolitan cities, urban counties, and approved consortia within the State, based on the
need for such funds. The increased allocation to a State
under the preceding sentence shall be derived by a pro rata
deduction from the allocations to units of general local
government in all States, except that such pro rata deduction shall not reduce the allocation of any unit of general
local government below $500,000.
(3) MINIMUM LOCAL ALLOCATION.—The Secretary shall allocate
funds available for formula allocation to units of general local
government that, as of the end of the previous fiscal year,
qualified as metropolitan cities, urban counties, and consortia
approved by the Secretary in accordance with section 216(2) so
that, when all such funds are initially allocated by formula,
only those jurisdictions that are allocated an amount of
$500,000 or greater shall receive an allocation, Prior to
announcing initial allocations, the Secretary shall successively
recalculate the allocations to jurisdictions under this subsection
so that the maximum number of such jurisdictions can receive
initial allocations,
(c) CRITERIA FOR DIRECT REALLOCATION.—The Secretary shall
establish objective criteria for making direct reallocations to any
participating jurisdiction and other eligible entities. A jurisdiction
shall be eligible for a direct reallocation under this subsection only
if the jurisdiction, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, submits an
application that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary
that the jurisdiction is engaged, or has made good faith efforts to
engage, in cooperative efforts between the State and appropriate
participating jurisdictions within the State to develop, coordinate.
Regulations. and implement housing strategies under this title. The Secretary
shall by regulation establish objective selection criteria for such
direct reallocations, which criteria shall take into account—
(1) the applicant's demonstrated commitment to expand the
supply of affordable rental housing, including units developed
by public housing agencies, as indicated by the additional
number of units of affordable housing made available through
production or rehabilitation within the previous 2 years,
making adjustment for regional variations in construction and
rehabilitation costs and giving special consideration to the
number of additional units made available under this title
through production or rehabilitation, including units developed
by public housing agencies, in relation to the amounts made
available under this program;
(2) the applicant's actions that—
(A) direct funds made available under this subtitle to
benefit very low-income families, with a range of incomes,
in amounts that exceed the income targeting requirements
of section 214, with extra consideration given for activities
that expand the supply of affordable housing for very lowincome families whose incomes do not exceed 30 percent of
the median family income for the area, as determined by
the Secretary;
(B) apply the tenant selection preference categories applicable under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4109
1937 to the selection of tenants for housing assisted under
this subtitle;
(C) provide matching resources in excess of funds
required under section 220; and
(D) stimulate a high degree of investment and participation in development by the private sector, including nonprofit organizations; and
(3) the degree to which the applicant is pursuing policies
that—
(A) make existing housing more affordable;
(B) remove or ameliorate any negative effects that public
policies identified by the applicant pursuant to section
10503)(4) may have on the cost of housing or the incentives
to develop, maintain, or improve affordable housing in the
jurisdiction;
(C) preserve the affordability of privately-owned housing
that is vulnerable to conversion, demolition, disinvestment,
or abandonment;
(D) increase the supply of housing that is affordable to
very low-income and low-income persons, particularly in
areas that are accessible to expanding job opportunities;
and
(E) remedy the effects of discrimination and improve
housing opportunities for disadvantaged minorities.
(d) REALLOCATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make any reallocations
periodically throughout each fiscal year so as to ensure that £ill
funds to be reallocated are made available to eligible jurisdictions as soon as possible, consistent with orderly program
administration. Jurisdictions eligible for such reallocations
shall include participating jurisdictions and jurisdictions
meeting the requirements of paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) of
section 216.
(2) COMMITMENTS.—The Secretary shall establish procedures
according to which participating jurisdictions may make
commitments to invest funds made available under this section.
Such procedures shall provide for appropriate stages of commitment of funds to a project from initisd reservation through
binding commitment. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this title, funds that the Secretary determines are needed to
fulfill binding commitments shall not be available for
reallocation.
(3) LIMITATION.—Unless otherwise specified in this subtitle,
any reallocation of funds from a State shall be made only
among all participating States, and any reallocation of funds
from units of general local government shall be made only
among all participating units of general local government.
SEC. 218. HOME INVESTMENT TRUST FUNDS. 42 USC 12748.
(a) ESTABUSHMENT.—The Secretary shall establish for each
participating jurisdiction a HOME Investment Trust Fund, which
shsdl be an account (or accounts as provided in section 219(c)) for use
solely to invest in affordable housing within the participating jurisdiction's boundaries in accordance with the provisions of this
subtitle. 
104 STAT. 4110 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
42 us e 12749.
Government
contracts.
(b) LINE OF CREDIT.—The Secretary shall establish a line of credit
in the HOME Investment Trust Fund of each participating jurisdiction, which line of credit shall include—
(1) funds allocated or reallocated to the participating jurisdiction under section 217, and
(2) any payment or repayment made pursuant to section 219.
(c) REDUCTIONS.—A participating jurisdiction's line of credit shall
be reduced by—
(1) funds drawn from the HOME Investment Trust Fund by
the participating jurisdiction,
(2) funds expiring under subsection (g), and
(3) any penalties assessed by the Secretary under section 224.
(d) CERTIFICATION.—A participating jurisdiction may draw funds
from its HOME Investment Trust Fund, but not to exceed the
remaining line of credit, only after providing certification that the
funds shall be used pursuant to the participating jurisdiction's
approved housing strategy and in compliance with all requirements
of this title. When such certification is received, the Secretary shall
immediately disburse such funds in accordance with the form of the
assistance determined by the participating jurisdiction.
(e) INVESTMENT WITHIN 15 DAYS.—The participating jurisdiction
shall, not later than 15 days after funds are drawn from the
jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund, invest such funds,
together with any interest earned thereon, in the affordable housing
for which the funds were withdrawn.
(f) NO INTEREST OR FEES.—The Secretary shall not charge any
interest or levy any other fee with regard to funds in a HOME
Investment Trust Fund.
(g) EXPIRATION OF RIGHT TO DRAW FUNDS.—Except as provided in
section 217(b)(l)(A)(ii), if any funds becoming available to a participating jurisdiction under this title are not placed under binding
commitment to affordable housing within 24 months after the last
day of the month in which such funds are deposited in the jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund, the jurisdiction's right to
draw such funds from the HOME Investment Trust Fund shall
expire. The Secretary shall reduce the line of credit in the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund by the expiring
amount and shall reallocate the funds by formula in accordance
with section 217(d).
(h) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION.—The Secretary shall keep each
participating jurisdiction informed of the status of its HOME Investment "Trust Fund, including the status of amounts under various
stages of commitment.
SEC. 219. REPAYMENT OF INVESTMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Any repa5mient of funds drawn from a jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund, and any payment of interest
or other return on the investment of such funds, shall be deposited
in such jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund, except that, if
the jurisdiction is not a participating jurisdiction when such payment or repayment is made, the amount of such payment or repayment shall be reallocated in accordance with section 217(d).
(b) ASSURANCE OF REPAYMENT.—Each participating jurisdiction
shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary ensuring that
funds invested in affordable housing under this subtitle are repayable when the housing no longer qualifies as affordable housing.
Any repayment under the previous sentence shall be for deposit in 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4111
the HOME Investment Trust Fund of the jurisdiction making the
investment; except that if such jurisdiction is not a participating
jurisdiction when such repa3anent is made, the amount of such
repayment shall be reallocated in accordance with section 217(d),
(c) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall take such actions as are
necessary to ensure that any repajrments deposited in a HOME
Investment Trust Fund in accordance with this section shall be
immediately available to the participating jurisdiction for investment subject to the provisions of this subtitle that apply to funds
that are allocated under section 217. Actions authorized under the
preceding sentence may include authorizing the establishment for a
participating jurisdiction of a HOME Investment Trust Fund account outside of the Federal Government that, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Secretary, shall be used solely to invest in
affordable housing within the participating jurisdiction's boundaries
in accordance with the provisions of this title. Such accounts shall
be established in such a manner that repa5anents are not receipts or
collections of the Federal Government.
SEC. 220. MATCHING REQUIREMENTS. 42 USC 12750.
(a) CONTRIBUTION.—Each participating jurisdiction shall make
contributions to affordable housing assisted under this title that
total, throughout a fiscal year, not less than—
(1) 25 percent of the total funds drawn from the jurisdiction's
HOME Investment Trust Fund in that fiscal year with respect
to rental assistance and housing rehabilitation;
(2) 33 percent of the total funds drawn from the jurisdiction's
HOME Investment Trust Fund in that fiscal year with respect
to substantial rehabilitation; and
(3) 50 percent of the total funds drawn from the jurisdiction's
HOME Investment Trust Fund in that fiscal year with respect
to new construction.
Such contributions shall be in addition to any amounts made available under section 216(3XAXii).
(b) RECOGNITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A contribution shall be recognized for purposes of subsection (a) only if it—
(A) is made with respect to housing that qualifies as
affordable housing under section 215; or
(B) is made with respect to any portion of a project not
less than 50 percent of the units of which qualify as affordable housing under section 215.
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Contributions for administrative expenses shall be recognized only up to an amount equal to
7 percent of funds provided for investment under this title.
(c) FORM.—Such contributions may be in the form of—
(1) cash contributions from non-Federal resources, which may
not include funds from a grant made under section 1060?) or
section 106(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act
of 1974;
(2) payment of administrative expenses, as defined by the
Secretary, from non-Federal resources, which may include
funds from a grant made under section 106(b) or section 106(d)
of the Housing and (Community Development Act of 1974;
(3) the value of taxes, fees, or other charges that are normally
and customarily imposed but are waived, foregone, or deferred 
104 STAT. 4112 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
in a manner that achieves affordability of housing assisted
under this title;
(4) the value of land or other real property as appraised
according to procedures acceptable to the Secretary; and
(5) the value of investment in on-site and off-site infrastructure directly required for affordable housing assisted under this
title.
(d) REDUCTION OF REQUIREMENT.—If a jurisdiction demonstrates to
the satisfaction of the Secretary that a reduction of the matching
requirement specified in subsection (a) is necessary to permit the
jurisdiction to carry out the purposes of this title, the Secretary may
reduce the matching requirement during a period not to exceed 3
years after the jurisdiction is first designated as a participating
jurisdiction. Such reduction shall be not more than 75 percent in the
first year, not more than 50 percent in the second year, and not
more than 25 percent in the third year.
42 us e 12751. SEC. 221. PRIVATE-PUBLIC PARTNERSHIP.
Each participating jurisdiction shall make all reasonable efforts,
consistent with the purposes of this title, to maximize participation
by the private sector, including nonprofit organizations and forprofit entities, in the implementation of the jurisdiction's housing
strategy, including participation in the financing, development,
rehabilitation and management of affordable housing. Nothing in
the previous sentence shall preclude public housing authorities from
fully participating in the implementation of a jurisdiction's housing
strategy.
42 us e 12752. SEC. 222. DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE.
(a) LOCAL.—Each participating jurisdiction shall, insofar as is
feasible, distribute assistance under this subtitle geographically
within its boundaries and among different categories of housing
need, according to the priorities of housing need identified in the
jurisdiction's approved housing strategy.
(b) STATE.—Participating States shall be responsible for distributing assistance throughout the State according to the State's assessment of the geographical distribution of the housing need within the
Rural areas. State, £is identified in the State's approved housing strategy. Participating States shall distribute assistance to rural areas in amounts
that take into account the nonmetropolitan share of the State's total
population and objective measures of rural housing need, such as
poverty and substandard housing, as set forth in the State's housing
strategy approved under section 105 of this Act. To the extent the
need is within the boundaries of a participating unit of general local
government, the State and the unit of general local government
shall coordinate activities to address that need.
42 us e 12753. SEC. 223. PENALTIES FOR MISUSE OF FUNDS.
If the Secretary finds after reasonable notice and opportunity for
hearing that a participating jurisdiction has failed to comply
substantially with any provision of this subtitle and until the Secretary is satisfied that there is no longer any such failure to comply,
the Secretary shall reduce the line of credit in the participating
jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund by the amount of any
expenditures that were not in accordance with the requirements of
this title, and the Secretary may— 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4113
(1) prevent withdrawals from the participating jurisdiction's
HOME Investment Trust Fund for activities affected by such
failure to comply;
(2) restrict the participating jurisdiction's activities under this
title to activities that conform to one or more model programs
made available under section 213; or
(3) remove the participating jurisdiction from participation in
allocations or reallocations of funds made available under this
subtitle.
SEC. 224. LIMITATION ON JURISDICTIONS UNDER COURT ORDER
(a) IN GENERAL,—Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act,
the Secretary shall ensure that funds provided under this subtitle
are not employed to carry out housing remedies or to pay fines,
penalties, or costs associated with an action in which—
(1) a participating jurisdiction has been adjudicated, by a
Federal, State, or local court, to be in violation of title VI of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Fair Housing Act, or any other
Federal, State, or local law promoting fair housing or prohibiting discrimination, or
(2) a settlement has been entered into in any case where
claims of such violations have been asserted against a participating jurisdiction, except to the extent permitted by subsection (b).
Ot)) REMEDIAL USE OF FUNDS PERMITTED.—In the case of settlement
described in subsection (aX2), a jurisdiction may use funds provided
under this Act to carry out housing remedies with eligible activities.
SEC. 225. TENANT AND PARTICIPANT PROTECTIONS.
(a) LEASE.—The lease between a tenant and an owner of affordable
housing assisted under this title for rental shall be for not less than
one year, unless by mutual agreement between the tenant and the
owner, and shall contain such terms and conditions as the Secretary
shall determine to be appropriate.
(b) TERMINATION OF TENANCY.—An owner shall not terminate the
tenancy or refuse to renew the lease of a tenant of rental housing
assisted under this title except for serious or repeated violation of
the terms and conditions of the lease, for violation of applicable
Federal, State, or local law, or for other good cause. Any termination or refusal to renew must be preceded by not less than 30 days
by the owner's service upon the tenant of a written notice specifjdng
the grounds for the action.
(c) MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.—The owner of rental housing Eissisted under this title shall maintain the premises in compliance with all applicable housing quality standards and local code
requirements.
(d) TENANT SELECTION.—The owner of rental housing assisted
under this title shall adopt written tenant selection policies and
criteria that—
(1) are consistent with the purpose of providing housing for
very low-income and low-income families,
(2) are reasonably related to program eligibility and the
applicant's ability to perform the obligations of the lesise,
(3) give reasonable consideration to the housing needs of
families that would have a preference under section 6(c)(4)(A) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437d(c)(4XA)),
and
42 us e 12754.
42 us e 12755. 
104 STAT. 4114 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
(4) provide for (A) the selection of tenants from a written
waiting list in the chronological order of their application,
insofar as is practicable, and (B) for the prompt notification in
writing of any rejected applicant of the grounds for any
rejection.
42 use 12756. SEC. 226. MONITORING OF COMPLIANCE.
(a) ENFORCEABLE AGREEMENTS.—Each participating jurisdiction,
through binding contractual agreements with owners and otherwise,
shall ensure long-term compliance with the provisions of this title.
Such measures shall provide for (1) enforcement of the provisions of
this title by the jurisdiction or by the intended beneficiaries, and (2)
remedies for the breach of such provisions.
(b) PERIODIC MONITORING.—Each participating jurisdiction, not
less frequently than annually, shall review the activities of owners
of affordable housing assisted under this title for rental to assess
compliance with the requirements of this title. Such review shall
include on-site inspection to determine compliance with housing
codes and other applicable regulations. The results of each review
shall be included in the jurisdiction's performance report submitted
to the Secretary under section 108(a) and made avEiilable to the
public.
(c) SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS.—In the case of
small-scale or scattered site housing, the Secretary may provide for
such streamlined procedures for achieving the purposes of this
section as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
Subtitle B—Community Housing Partnership
42 use 12771. SEC. 231. SET-ASIDE FOR COMMUNITY HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
ORGANIZATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—For a period of 18 months after funds under
subtitle A are made available to a jurisdiction, the jurisdiction shall
reserve not less than 15 percent of such funds for investment only in
housing to be developed, sponsored, or owned by community housing
development organizations. Each participating jurisdiction shall
make reasonable efforts to identify community housing development
organizations that are capable or can reasonably be expected to
become capable of carrjdng out elements of the jurisdiction's housing strategy and to encourage such community housing development
organizations to do so. A participating jurisdiction is authorized to
enter into contracts with community housing development organizations to carry out this section.
OJ) RECAPTURE AND REUSE.—If any funds reserved under subsection (a) remain uninvested for a period of 18 months, then the
Secretary shall deduct such funds from the line of credit in the
participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund and
make such funds available by direct reallocation (1) to other participating jurisdictions for affordable housing developed, sponsored or
owned by community housing development organizations, or (2) to
nonprofit intermediary organizations to carry out activities that
develop the capacity of community housing development organizations consistent with section 233, with preference to community
housing development organizations serving the jurisdiction from
which the funds were recaptured. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4115
(c) DIRECT REALLOCATION CRITERIA.—Insofar as practicable, direct
reallocations under this section shall be made according to the
selection criteria established under section 217(c).
SEC. 232. PROJECT-SPECIFIC ASSISTANCE TO COMMUNITY HOUSING 42 USC12772.
DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Amounts reserved under section 231 may be
used for activities eligible under section 212 and, in amounts not to
exceed 10 percent of the amounts so reserved, for other activities
specified under this section.
(b) PROJECT-SPECIFIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND SITE CONTROL
LOANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts reserved under the previous section may be used to provide technical assistance and site control
loans to community housing development organizations in the
early stages of site development for an eligible project. Such
loans shall not exceed amounts that the jurisdiction determines
to be customary and reasonable project preparation costs allowable under paragraph (2).
(2) ALLOWABLE EXPENSES.—A loan under this subsection may
be provided to cover project expenses necessary to determine
project feasibility (including costs of an initial feasibility study),
consulting fees, costs of preliminary financial applications, legal
fees, architectural fees, engineering fees, engagement of a development team, site control and title clearance.
(3) REPAYMENT.—A community housing development
organization that receives a loan under this subsection shall
repay the loan to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund from construction loan proceeds or other
project income. The participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loan, in part or in whole, if there are impediments
to project development that the participating jurisdiction determines are reasonably beyond the control of the borrower.
(c) PROJECT-SPECIFIC SEED MONEY LOANS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts reserved under the previous section may be used to provide loans to community housing development organizations to cover preconstruction project costs that
the jurisdiction determines to be customary and reasonable,
including, but not limited to the costs of obtaining firm
construction loan commitments, architectural plans and specifications, zoning approvals, engineering studies and legal fees.
(2) EuGiBLE SPONSORS.—A loan under this subsection may be
provided only to a community housing development organization that has, with respect to the project concerned, site control,
a preliminary financial commitment, and a capable development team.
(3) REPAYMENT.—A community housing development
organization that receives a losin under this subsection shall
repay the loan to the jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust
Fund from construction loan proceeds or other project income.
The participating jurisdiction may waive repayment of the loan,
in whole or in part, if there are impediments to project development that the participating jurisdiction determines are resisonably beyond the control of the borrower. 
104 STAT. 4116 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
42 us e 12773. SEC. 233. HOUSING EDUCATION AND ORGANIZATIONAL SUPPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary is authorized to provide education
and organizational support assistance, in conjunction with other
assistance made available under this subtitle—
(1) to facilitate the education of low-income homeowners and
tenants; and
(2) to promote the ability of community housing development
organizations to maintain, rehabilitate and construct housing
for low-income and moderate-income families in conformance
with the requirements of this title.
(b) EuGiBLE ACTIVITIES.—Assistance under this section may be
used only for the following eligible activities:
(1) ORGANIZATIONAL SUPPORT.—Organizational support assistance may be made available to community housing development organizations to cover operational expenses and to cover
expenses for training and technical, legal, engineering and
other assistance to the board of directors, staff, and members of
the community housing development organization.
(2) HOUSING EDUCATION.—Housing education assistance may
be made available to community housing development organizations to cover expenses for providing or administering programs
for educating, counseling, or organizing homeowners and tenants who are eligible to receive assistance under other provisions of this title.
(3) PROGRAM-WIDE SUPPORT OF NONPROFIT DEVELOPMENT AND
MANAGEMENT.—Technical assistance, training, and continuing
support may be made available to eligible community housing
development organizations for managing and conserving properties developed under this title.
(4) BENEVOLENT LOAN FUNDS.—Technical assistance may be
made available to increase the investment of private capital in
housing for very low-income families, particularly by encouraging the establishment of benevolent loan funds through which
private financial institutions will accept deposits at belowmarket interest rates and make those funds available at favorable rates to developers of low-income housing and to lowincome homebuyers.
(5) COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND CREDIT UNIONS.—
Technical assistance may be made available to establish privately owned, local community development banks and credit
unions to finance affordable housing.
Government (c) DEUVERY OF ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary shall provide this
contracts. assistance only through contract—
(1) with a nonprofit intermediary organization that, in the
determination of the Secretary—
(A) customarily provides, in more than one community,
services related to the provision of decent housing that is
affordable to low-income and moderate-income persons or
the revitalization of deteriorating neighborhoods;
(B) h£is demonstrated experience in providing a range of
assistance (such as financing, technical assistance, construction and property management assistance, capacity building and trgiining) to community housing development
organizations or similar organizations that engage in
community revitalization; 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4117
(C) has demonstrated the ability to provide technical
assistance and training for community-based developers of
affordable housing; £ind
(D) has described the uses to which such assistance will be
put and the intended beneficiaries of the assistance; or
(2) with another organization, if a participating jurisdiction
demonstrates that the organization is qualified to carry out
eligible activities and that the jurisdiction would not be served
in a timely manner by intermediaries specified under paragraph (1).
Contracts under paragraph (2) shall be for activities specified in an
application from the participating jurisdiction, which application
shall include a certification that the activities are necessary to the
effective implementation of the participating jurisdiction's housing
strategy.
(d) LIMITATIONS.—Contracts under this section with any one contractor for a fiscal year may not—
(1) exceed 20 percent of the amount appropriated for this
section for such fiscal year; or
(2) provide more than 20 percent of the operating budget
(which shall not include funds that are passed through to
community housing development organizations) of the contracting organization for any one year.
(e) SINGLE-STATE CONTRACTORS.—Not less than 40 percent of the
funds made available for this section in an appropriations Act in
any fiscal year shall be made available for eligible contractors that
have worked primarily in one State.
SEC. 234. OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
(a) TENANT PARTICIPATION PLAN.—A community housing development organization that receives assistance under this subtitle shall
provide a plan for and follow a program of tenant participation in
management decisions and shall adhere to a fair lease and grievance
procedure approved by the participating jurisdiction.
Ot)) LIMITATION ON ASSISTANCE.—A community housing development organization may not receive assistance under this title for
any fiscal year in an amount that, together with other Federal
assistance, provides more than 50 percent of the organization's total
operating budget in the fiscal year.
(c) ADJUSTMENTS OF OTHER ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary shall take
account of assistance provided to a project under this subtitle when
adjusting other assistance to be provided to the project as required
by section 102(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989.
Subtitle C—Other Support for State and Local
Housing Strategies
42 us e 12774.
SEC. 241. AUTHORITY.
The Secretary shall, insofar as is feasible through contract with
eligible organizations, develop the capacity of participating jurisdictions, State and local housing finance agencies, nonprofit organizations and for-profit corporations, working in partnership, to identify
and meet needs for an increased supply of decent, affordable
housing.
42 us e 12781.
Government
contracts.
Nonprofit
organizations.
Business and
industry. 
104 STAT. 4118 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Research.
Technical
assistance.
42 us e 12783.
42 us e 12782. SEC. 242. PRIORITIES FOR CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT.
To carry out section 241, the Secretary shall provide assistance
under this subtitle to—
(1) facilitate the exchange of information that would help
participating jurisdictions carry out the purposes of this title,
including information on program design, housing finance, land
use controls, and building construction techniques;
(2) improve the ability of States and units of general local
government to design and implement comprehensive housing
affordability strategies, particularly those States and units of
general local government that are relatively inexperienced in
the development of affordable housing;
Business and (3) encourage private lenders and for-profit developers of lowindustry, income housing to participate in public-private partnerships to
achieve the purposes of this title;
(4) improve the ability of States and units of general local
government, community housing development organizations,
private lenders, and for-profit developers of low-income housing
to incorporate energy efficiency into the pl£inning, design,
financing, construction, and operation of affordable housing;
and
(5) facilitate the establishment and efficient operation of employer-assisted housing programs through research, technical
assistance and demonstration projects.
SEC. 243. CONDITIONS OF CONTRACTS.
(a) EuGiBLE ORGANIZATIONS.—The Secretary shall carry out this
subtitle insofar as is practicable through contract with—
(1) a participating jurisdiction or eigency thereof;
(2) a public purpose organization established pursuant to
State or local legislation and responsible to the chief elected
official of a participating jurisdiction;
(3) an agency or authority established by two or more participating jurisdictions to carry out activities consistent with the
purposes of this title;
(4) a national or regional nonprofit organization that has a
membership comprised predominantly of entities or officials of
entities that qualify under paragraph (1), (2), or (3); or
(5) a professional and technical services company or firm that
has demonstrated capacity to provide services under this subtitle.
(b) C!oNTRACT TERMS.—Contracts under this subtitle shall be for
not more than 3 years £ind shall provide not more than 20 percent of
the operating budget of the contracting organization in any one
year. Within any fiscal year, contracts with any one organization
may not be entered into for a total of more than 20 percent of the
funds appropriated under this subtitle in that fiscal year.
42 use 12784. SEC. 244. RESEARCH IN HOUSING AFFORDABILITY.
The Secretary is authorized to support, through contracts with
eligible organizations and otherwise, such research and to publish
such reports as will assist in the achievement of the purposes of this
title. Activities authorized by the previous sentence may include an
ongoing analysis of the impact of public policies at the Federal,
State, and local levels, both individually and in the aggregate, on
the incentives to expand and maintain the supply of energy-efficient
affordable housing in the United States, particularly in areas with
Nonprofit
organizations.
Business and
industry. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4119
severe problems of housing affordability. For purposes of this section, agencies of the United States, government-sponsored mortgage
finance corporations, and qualified research organizations shall be
included as eligible organizations in addition to eligible organizations specified under section 243.
SEC. 245. REACH: ASSET RECYCLING INFORMATION DISSEMINATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available upon request by any participating jurisdiction a list of eligible properties
that are located within the jurisdiction and that are owned or
controlled by the Department of Housing and Urban Development
to facilitate the purchase, development, or rehabilitation of such
properties with assistance made available under this title.
(b) EuGiBLE PROPERTIES.—An eligible property under this section
shall—
(1) be an unoccupied single-family or multifamily dwelling,
such that acquisition and rehabilitation of the dwelling would
not result in the displacement of any residents of the dwelling;
and
(2) have an appraised value that does not exceed (A) in the
case of a 1- to 4-family dwelling, 95 percent of the median
purchase price for the area for such dwellings, as determined by
the Secretary, or (B) in the case of a dwelling with more than 4
units, the applicable maximum dollar amount limitation under
section 221(dX3Xii) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1715/(dX3Xii)) for elevator-tjrpe structures.
Subtitle D—SpeciHed Model Programs
42 us e 12785.
SEC. 251. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
Among the alternative model progrgims that the Secretary shall
make available for use by participating jurisdictions under the
provisions of section 213 shall be model programs specified in this
subtitle. The Secretary shall keep these specified model programs
under review and submit to Congress such recommendations for
change as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
SEC. 252. RENTAL HOUSING PRODUCTION.
(a) REPAYABLE ADVANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program under which repayable advances may be made to
public and private project sponsors in constructing, acquiring,
or substantially rehabilitating projects to be used as affordable
rental housing, including limited equity cooperatives and
mutual housing.
(2) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ADVANCE.—An advance under this
model program shall not exceed 50 percent of the total costs
associated with the construction, acquisition, or substantial rehabilitation of the project, as determined by the participating
jurisdiction.
(3) TERMS OF REPAYMENT.—
(A) INTEREST PAYMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Under the model program, advances
shall be repaid with interest calculated at a rate of not
more than 3 percent per year, £is determined by the
participating jurisdiction to be appropriate. Interest
42 us e 12801.
42 us e 12802. 
104 STAT. 4120 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
shall begin to accrue 1 year after the completion
of the construction, acquisition, or substantial rehabilitation of the project and shall be payable in
annual installments.
(ii) EXCEPTION.—Interest and any accrued interest
shall be payable only from the surplus cash flow of the
project, after a minimum return on equity determined
by the participating jurisdiction to be appropriate. As
used in the previous sentence, the term "surplus cash
flow" means the cash flow of the project after the
pa3anent of all amounts due under the first mortgage,
operating expenses, and required replacement reserves,
as determineid by the participating jurisdiction.
(B) ADDITIONAL INTEREST PAYMENTS.—Under the model
program, for any year in which the sum of the surplus cash
flow of a project and the return on equity exceeds all
interest pajnnents due under subparagraph (A), 50 percent
of the excess surplus cash flow shall be paid to the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund as additional interest.
(C) PRINCIPAL AND UNPAID INTEREST.—The principal
amount of an advance under the model program, and any
interest remaining unpaid pursuant to subparagraph (AXii)
shall be repayable when the housing no longer qualities as
affordable housing in accordance with section 219(b).
Qo) SELECTION GUIDEUNES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish guidelines for
the selection of projects by participating jurisdictions for assistance under the model program. Such guidelines shall be designed to select projects in areas and for markets demonstrating
the greatest need for the production of affordable rental
housing.
(2) SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.—The selection guidelines may
include—
(A) the extent of the shortage of rental housing in the
area that is available to low-income families;
(B) the extent large families with children will be served
by the project;
(C) the extent to which the project provides congregate
facilities and has available supportive services that will
permit elderly or handicapped residents who become frail
and are in need of assistance in living to continue to reside
in the project;
(D) the extent of very low-income and low-income occupancy in excess of the income targeting requirements in
section 214;
(E) the extent of the project sponsor's commitment of
equity to the project (except that this criterion shall not
apply to or affect the selection of applications submitted by
public housing agencies and nonprofit entities);
(F) the extent of the project sponsor's commitment of
equity to the project in comparison to the value of all public
£issistance for the project, including assistance under this
title, other Federal assistance and financing, and State and
local government contributions (except that this criterion
shall not apply to or affect the selection of applications 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4121
submitted by public housing agencies and nonprofit
entities);
(G) the extent of non-Federal public or private assistance
to the project;
(H) the extent to which the project provides supportive
services for persons with disabilities; and
(I) any other factor determined by the Secretary to be
appropriate.
(c) GuiDEUNES.—The Secretary shall publish guidelines for the
model program under this section not later than 180 days after
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 253. RENTAL REHABILITATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program to support the rehabilitiation of privately owned rental
housing located in neighborhoods where the median income does not
exceed 80 percent of the area median as determined by the Secretary and where rents can reasonably be expected not to change
materially over an extended period of time.
Qa) AMOUNT OF SUBSIDY.—The amount of the rehabilitation subsidy shall be moderate and shall generally not exceed 50 percent of
the total costs associated with the rehabilitation of the housing.
(c) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.—The guidelines of the model program shall generally comport with the additional protections and
restrictions specified under section 17(c) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
SEC. 254. REHABILITATION LOANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program to provide direct loans to finance the rehabilitation of low
and moderate income single family and multifamily residential
properties.
(b) CONDITION OF LOANS.—The Secretary shall establish terms and
conditions to ensure that such loans are acceptable risks, taking into
consideration the need for rehabilitation, the security for the loan
and the ability of the borrower to repay the loan. The Secretary may
establish the interest rate for loans under the model program, which
shall include special interest rates for loans to borrowers with
incomes below 80 percent of the area median income.
(c) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.—Guidelines for the model program
may require that the property—
(1) be located in an area that contains a substantial number of
dwellings in need of rehabilitation;
(2) the property is residential and owner-occupied; and
(3) the property is in need of rehabilitation or concentrated
code enforcement within a reasonable time, and the rehabilitation of such property is consistent with a local plan for rehabilitation or code enforcement.
Additional guidelines for the model program shall generally comport with the additional protections and restrictions specified under
section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964.
SEC. 255. SWEAT EQUITY MODEL PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program to provide grants to public and private nonprofit organizations and community housing development organizations to provide
technical and supervisory assistance to low-income and very low42 us e 12803.
42 us e 12804.
Labor.
42 us e 12805.
Grant programs.
Nonprofit
organizations.
Homeless. 
104 STAT. 4122 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
income families, including the homeless, in acquiring, rehabilitating, and constructing housing by the self-help housing method.
(b) REHABIUTATION OF PROPERTIES.—The program shall target for
rehabilitation properties which have been acquired by the Federal,
State, or local governments.
(c) HOMEOWNERSHIP OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH SwEAT EQUITY.—
(1) The program shall utilize the skilled or unskilled labor of
eligible families in exchange for acquisition of the property.
(2) Training shall be provided to eligible families in building
and home maintenance skills.
(d) RENTAL OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH SWEAT EQUITY.—(1) The program shall include rental opportunities for eligible families which
will help expand the stock of affordable housing which is most
appropriate for the target group.
(2) The use of the tenant's skilled or unskilled labor shall be
encouraged in lieu of or as a supplement to rent pajmients by the
tenant.
(e) DEFINITION.—The term "self-help housing" means the same as
in section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949.
(f) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.—The guidelines for the model program shall generally comport with the additional protections and
restrictions specified under section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949.
42 us e 12806. SEC. 256. HOME REPAIR SERVICES GRANTS FOR OLDER AND DISABLED
HOMEOWNERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program to provide home repair services for older homeowners and
disabled homeowners, including such services as the examination of
homes, repair services, and follow-up to ensure the continued
effectiveness of the repairs provided.
(b) EuGiBLE RECIPIENTS.—Home repair services shall be provided
to homeowners who—
(1) own and reside in the dwellings for which services are
provided;
(2) are older or disabled; and
(3) are members of low-income families.
(c) PERMITTED RESTRICTIONS.—Guidelines for the model program
shall require that—
(1) assisted dwelling units be the primary residence of the
homeowner for whom services are provided;
(2) preferences be provided for (A) very low-income families,
and (B) individuals with intense need characterized by noneconomic factors such as physical and mental disabilities, language barriers, and cultural, social, or geographical isolation
caused by racial or ethnic status that restricts the ability of an
individual to perform normal daily tasks or that threatens the
capacity of the individual to live independently;
(3) any fees charged be based on the income of the individual
receiving the home repair services.
42 us e 12807. SEC. 257. LOW-INCOME HOUSING CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY
GRANT PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make avsiilable a model
program to provide safe, energy-efficient affordable housing for lowincome persons.
(b) ACTIVITIES.—The model program shall provide for—
(1) identification of housing that is— 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4123
(A) owned and occupied by low-income families who have
received, are currently receiving, or are scheduled to receive assistance under the weatherization assistance for
low-income persons program under part A of title IV of the
Energy Conservation and Production Act (or a comparable
Federal or State program);
(B) in danger of becoming uninhabitable within a 5-year
period because of structural weaknesses or problems; and
(C) not sufficiently sound to permit energy conservation
improvements without other repair or rehabilitation measures to protect such energy investments;
(2) repairs that will significantly prolong the habitability of
units identified under pareigraph (1), including roofing, electrical, plumbing, furnace, and foundation repairs or replacement that will prolong the use of the unit as a safe and
energy-efficient residence for low-income persons; and
(3) reEisonable steps to ensure that £iny units so repaired will
remain occupied by persons or families eligible for assistance
under this title.
SEC. 258. SECOND MORTGAGE ASSISTANCE FOR FIRST-TIME HOME- 42 USC 12808.
BUYERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program under which units of general local government provide
loans (secured by second mortgages) with deferred pajnnent of
interest and principal to first-time homebuyers.
(b) HoMEOWNERSHiP CouNSEUNG.—The program under this section shall provide for homeownership counseling to first-time homebuyers assisted, which shall include—
(1) counseling before and after purchase of the property;
(2) assisting first-time homebuyers in identifjdng the most
suitable and affordable properties;
(3) providing homebuyers with financial management
assistance;
(4) assisting homebuyers in understanding mortgage transactions and home sales contracts; and
(5) assisting homebuyers with eliminating any credit problems that may prevent the homebuyers from purchasing the
property.
(c) EuGiBiiiTY REQUIREMENTS.—Deferred pajnnent loans secured
by second mortgages may be provided under the model program
under this section if—
(1) the homebuyer assisted is a first-time homebuyer;
(2) the property secured by the second mortgage is a singlefamily residence and is the principal residence of the homebuyer; and
(3) the principal obligation of the deferred pajnnent loan
secured by a second mortgage does not exceed 30 percent of the
acquisition price of the residence to the homebuyer.
(d) PAYMENT TERMS.—
(1) PERIOD OF DEFERRAL.—The pajmient of any principal and
• interest on a loan under this section shall be deferred for not
less than the 5-year period beginning on the date of the acquisition of the residence by the homebuyer.
(2) INTEREST RATE.—The interest rate on the unpaid balance of
a loan under this section shall be at least 4 percent.
39-194 O - 91 - 26 : QL 3 Part 5 
104 STAT. 4124 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
(3) REPAYMENT PERIOD.—A deferred pa3maent loan secured by
a second mortgage shall be repayable over the 15-year period
beginning at the end of the deferral period.
(e) SECURITY.—A deferred pa3anent loan assisted with amount
provided under a grant under this section shall be secured by a lien
on the property involved, which lien shall be subordinate to the first
mortgage on the property.
42 us e 12809. SEC. 259. REHABILITATION OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT IN REM
PROPERTIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall make available a model
program under which States and units of general IOCEJ government
may convert in rem properties to provide affordable permanent
housing for the homeless by leasing such properties to nonprofit
organizations and permitting such organizations to rehabilitate the
properties.
(b) TARGET.—The program shall target vacant properties for
rehabilitation by nonprofit organizations.
Subtitle E—Mortgage Credit Enhancement
42 us e 12821. SEC. 271. REPORT ON CREDIT ENHANCEMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller Genersd of the United States
shall carry out a study of ways in which financing for affordable
housing may be made available to assist in the most efficient
implementation of comprehensive housing affordability strategies of
participating jurisdictions. In conducting the study, the Comptroller
General shall draw upon the expertise of such representatives of
State and local government. State and local housing finance agencies, agencies of the United States, government-sponsored mortgage
finance corporations, for-profit and nonprofit housing developers,
private financial institutions, and sources of long-term mortgage investment, as the Comptroller General determines to be
appropriate.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than one year after the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Congress and the
Secretary a report containing any recommendations for legislative
or administrative actions needed to improve the availability of
*^ mortgage finance for affordable housing. The report shall include,
but need not be limited to, an assessment of—
(1) the need for the Department of Housing and Urban Development or other agencies of the United States to provide partial
credit enhancement to make financing for affordable housing
available efficiently and at the lowest possible cost; and
(2) alternative ways in which—
(A) the Department could provide any needed credit
enhancement on a one-stop basis for participating jurisdictions, in coordination with other forms of assistance under
this subtitle;
(B) the Etepartment or other agencies of the Federal
Government could assist government-sponsored mortgage
finance corporations in the financing of mortgages on
affordable housing through the development of mortgagebacked securities that are more standardized and readily
traded in the capital markets; 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4125
(C) the capacities of existing agencies of the United States
could be used to provide mortgage finance more efficiently
for affordable housing through government-sponsored mortgage finance corporations; and
(D) the interests of the Federal Government could be
protected and any risks of loss could be minimized through
requirements for fees, mortgage insurance, risk-sharing,
secure collateral, and guarantees by other parties, and
through standards relating to minimum capital and prior
experience with underwriting, origination and servicing.
Subtitle F—General Provisions
SEC. 281. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY. 42 USC 12831.
(a) SOUCITATION OF CONTRACTS.—Each participating jurisdiction Minorities.
shall prescribe procedures acceptable to the Secretary to establish Women.
and oversee a minority outreach program within each such jurisdiction to ensure the inclusion, to the maximum extent possible, of
minorities and women, and entities owned by minorities and
women, including, without limitation, real estate firms, construction
firms, appraisal firms, management firms, financial institutions,
investment banking firms, underwriters, accountants, and providers
of legal services, in all contracts, entered into by the participating
jurisdiction with such persons or entities, public and private, in
order to facilitate the activities of the participating jurisdiction to
provide affordable housing authorized under this Act or any other
Federal housing law applicable to such jurisdiction.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Before the end of the 180-day period
beginning on the date the first allocation of funds is made under
section 217, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report
containing a description of the actions taken by each participating
jurisdiction pursuant to subsection (a) and such recommendations
for administrative and legislative action as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate to carry out the purposes of such subsection.
SEC. 282. NONDISCRIMINATION. 42 USC 12832.
No person in the United States shall on the grounds of race, color,
national origin, religion, or sex be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any
program or activity funded in whole or in part with funds made
available under this title. Any prohibition against discrimination on
the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 or with
respect to an otherwise qualified handicapped individual as provided
in section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 shall also apply to
any such program or activity.
SEC. 283. ANNUAL AUDITS AND ACCOUNTABILITY. 42 USC 12833.
(a) INDEPENDENT AUDITS.—The Secretary, except as provided in
paragraph O^XD, shall contract annually with an independent
accounting firm to provide for a full financial audit of the records of
the HOME Investment Partnerships program for each fiscal year.
Funds available for departmental administration may be used to
provide for such audits. Each audit shall be performed as soon as
practicable after the close of the fiscal year and in accordance with
generally accepted Government auditing standards approved by the
Comptroller General of the United States (hereinafter referred to as 
104 STAT. 4126 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Reports.
Reports.
42 us e 12834.
42 us e 12835.
42 us e 12836.
Government
contracts.
Wages.
the "Comptroller General"), and shall be consistent with the
requirements of sections 9105 and 9106 of title 31, United States
Code. The Secretary shall promptly submit the report of the
independent accounting firm to the Congress, consistent with the
requirements of section 9106 of title 31, United States Code, and
such report shall be published. The requirement for an audit under
this section shall be in lieu of the requirement for an audit by the
Comptroller General under section 9105(a) of title 31, United States
Code,
(b) AUDITS BY THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL.—
(1) AUDITS OF THE HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM.—The Comptroller General, when the Comptroller General deems it to be appropriate or when requested by the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate or the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
Affairs of the House of Representatives, shall conduct a full
financial audit of the records of the HOME Investment Partnerships program for any fiscal year. The initiation of an audit for
a fiscal year under the previous sentence shsdl obviate the
requirement for an audit by an independent accounting firm
under paragraph (a) for that fiscal year. The report of the
Comptroller General shall be submitted promptly to the Secretary and the Congress and shall be published.
(2) AUDITS OF RECIPIENTS.—The financial transactions of
participating jurisdictions and of other recipients of funds provided under this title may, insofar as they relate to funds
provided under this title, be audited by the General Accounting
Office under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Comptroller General of the United States. The representatives of the General Accounting Office shall have access to all
books, accounts, records, reports, files, and other papers, things,
or property belonging to or in use by such recipients pertaining
to such financial transactions and necessary to facilitate the
audit.
SEC. 284. UNIFORM RECORDKEEPING AND REPORTS TO THE CONGRESS.
(a) UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall develop £uid
establish uniform recordkeeping, performance reporting, and auditing requirements for use by participating jurisdictions.
Ot)) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.—Not later than 120 days after the
end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall make an annual report to
the Congress that summarizes and assesses the results of reports
provided under this section. Such report shall include a description
of actions taken by each participating jurisdiction pursuant to section 281(a) and such recommendations for administrative and legislative action as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of such
section.
SEC. 285. CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
The Secretary shall ensure that each participating jurisdiction,
and each jurisdiction seeking to become a participating jurisdiction,
complies with the requirements of section 107 of this Act.
SEC. 286. LABOR.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Any contract for the construction of affordable
housing with 12 or more units assisted with funds made available
under this subtitle shall contain a provision requiring that not less 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4127
than the wages prevailing in the locality, as predetermined by the
Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C.
276a—276a-5), shall be paid to all laborers and mechanics employed
in the development of affordable housing involved, and participating
jurisdictions shall require certification as to compliance with the
provisions of this section prior to making any payment under such
contract.
(b) WAIVER.—Subsection (a) shall not apply if the individual receives no compensation or is paid expenses, reasonable benefits, or a
nominal fee to perform the services for which the individual volunteered and such persons are not otherwise employed at any time in
the construction work.
SEC. 287. INTERSTATE AGREEMENTS. 42 USC 12837.
The consent of the Congress is hereby given to any two or more
States to enter into agreements or compacts, not in conflict with any
law of the United States, for cooperative efforts and mutual assistance in support of activities authorized under this title as they
pertain to interstate areas and to localities within such States, and
to establish such agencies, joint or otherwise, as they may deem
desirable for making such agreements and compacts effective.
SEC. 288. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW. 42 USC 12838.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In order to assure that the policies of the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and other provisions of
law which further the purposes of such Act (as specified in regulations issued by the Secretary) are most effectively implemented in
connection with the expenditure of funds under this title, and to
assure to the public undiminished protection of the environment,
the Secretary, in lieu of the environmental protection procedures
otherwise applicable, may under regulations provide for the release
of funds for particular projects to participating jurisdictions under
this title who assume all of the responsibilities for environmental
review, decisionmaking, and action pursuant to such Act, and such
other provisions of law as the regulations of the Secretary specify,
that would apply to the Secretary were he to undertake such
projects as Federal projects. The Secretary shall issue regulations to Regulations.
carry out this section only after consultation with the Council on
Environmental Quality.
(b) PROCEDURE.—The Secretary shall approve the release of funds
subject to the procedures authorized by this section only if, at least
15 days prior to such approval and prior to any commitment of
funds to such projects the participating jurisdiction has submitted to
the Secretary a request for such release accompanied by a certification which meets the requirements of subsection (c). The Secretary's approval of any such certification shall be deemed to satisfy
his responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 and such other provisions of law as the regulations of the
Secretary specify insofar as those responsibilities relate to the relesises of funds for projects to be carried out pursuant thereto which
are covered by such certification.
(c) CERTIFICATION.—A certification under the procedures authorized by this section shall—
(1) be in a form acceptable to the Secretary,
(2) be executed by the chief executive officer or other officer of
the recipient of assistance under this title qualified under regulations of the Secretary, 
104 STAT. 4128 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
(3) specify that the recipient of assistance under this title has
fully carried out its responsibilities as described under subsection (a), and
Regulations. (4) specify that the certifying officer (A) consents to assume
the status of a responsible Federal official under the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and each provision of law
specified in regulations issued by the Secretary insofar as the
provisions of such Act or other such provision of law apply
pursuant to subsection (a), and (B) is authorized and consents on
behalf of the participating jurisdiction and himself to accept the
jurisdiction of the Federal courts for the purpose of enforcement
of his responsibilities as such an official.
(d) ASSISTANCE TO A STATE.—In the case of assistance to States, the
State shall perform those actions of the Secretary described in
subsection (b) and the performance of such actions shall be deemed
to satisfy the Secretary's responsibilities referred to in the second
sentence of such subsection.
42 us e 12839. SEC. 289. TERMINATION OF EXISTING HOUSING PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except with respect to projects and programs for
which binding commitments have been entered into prior to
October 1, 1991, no new grants or loans shall be made after
October 1,1991, under—
(1) section 17 of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(2) section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964;
(3) title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act
of 1987;
(4) section 8(eX2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937,
except for funds allocated under such section for single room
occupancy dwellings as authorized by title IV of the Stewart B.
McKinney Homeless Assistance Act; and
(5) section 810 of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974.
(b) REPEALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except EIS provided in paragraph (2), effective on October 1, 1991, the provisions of law referred to in
subsection (a) are repealed.
(2) No EFFECT ON SRO PROGRAM.—The provision of law referred
to in subsection (a)(4) shall remain in effect with respect to
single room occupancy dwellings as authorized by title IV of the
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act.
(c) DISPOSITION OF REPAYMENTS.—Any amounts received on or
after October 1, 1991, as repayments or recaptures in connection
with the programs referred to in subsection (a) and any other
amounts for such programs that remain or become unobligated on
or after such date, shall be paid into the general fund of the
Treasury. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
TITLE III—HOMEOWNERSHIP
104 STAT. 4129
Subtitle A—National Homeownership Trust ^^*^°"^i
Demonstration
Homeownership
Trust Act.
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE,
This subtitle may be cited as the "National Homeownership Trust
Act".
SEC. 302. NATIONAL HOMEOWNERSHIP TRUST.
(a) EsTABUSHMENT.—There is established the National
Homeownership Trust, which shall be in the Department of Housing
£ind Urban Development and shall provide assistance to first-time
homebuyers in accordance with this subtitle.
(b) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—The Trust shall be governed by a Board
of Directors, which shall be composed of—
(1) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who
shall be the chairperson of the Board;
(2) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(3) the chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(4) the chairperson of the Federal Housing Finance Board;
(5) the chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal
National Mortgage Association;
(6) the chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and
(7) 1 individual representing consumer interests, who shall be
appointed by the President of the United States, by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate.
(c) POWERS OF TRUST.—The Trust shall have the same powers as
the powers given the Government National Mortgage Association in
section 309(a) of the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter
Act(12U.S.C. 1723a(a)).
(d) TRAVEL AND PER DIEM.—Members of the Board of Directors
shall receive no additional compensation by reason of service on the
Board, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in
lieu of subsistence, as provided for employees of the Federal Government or in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in
the Government service are allowed under section 5703 of title 5,
United States Code, as appropriate.
(e) DIRECTOR AND STAFF.—
(1) DIRECTOR.—The Board of Directors may appoint an executive director of the Trust and fix the compensation of the
executive director, which shall be paid from amounts in the
National Homeownership Trust Fund.
(2) STAFF.—Subject to such rules as the Board of Directors
may prescribe, the Trust may appoint and hire such staff and
provide for offices as may be necessary to carry out its duties.
The Trust may fix the compensation of the staff, which shall be
paid from amounts in the National Homeownership Trust
Fund.
42 us e 12701
note.
42 us e 12851. 
104 STAT. 4130 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
42 us e 12852. SEC. 303. ASSISTANCE FOR FIRST-TIME HOMEBUYERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Trust shall provide assistance pa3anents for
first-time homebuyers (including homebuyers bujdng shares in limited equity cooperatives) in the following manners:
(1) INTEREST RATE BUYDOWNS.—Assistance payments so that
the rate of interest payable on the mortgages by the homebuyers does not exceed 6 percent.
(2) DOWNPAYMENT ASSISTANCE.—Assistance payments to provide amounts for downpayments (including closing costs and
other costs payable at the time of closing) on mortgages for such
homebuyers.
(b) EuGiBiuTY REQUIREMENTS.—Assistance payments under this
subtitle may be made only to homebuyers and for mortgages meeting the following requirements:
(1) FIRST-TIME HOMEBUYER.—The homebuyer is an individual
who—
(A) (and whose spouse) has had no ownership in a principal residence during the 3-year period ending on the date
of purchase of the property with respect to which assistance
pa5anents are made under this subtitle;
(B) is a displaced homemaker who, except for owning a
home with his or her spouse or residing in a home owned by
the spouse, meets the requirements of subparagraph (A); or
(C) is a single parent who, except for owning a home with
his or her spouse or residing in a home owned by the spouse
while married, meets the requirements of subparagraph
(A).
(2) MAXIMUM INCOME OF HOMEBUYER.—The aggregate annual
income of the homebuyer and the members of the family of the
homebuyer residing with the homebuyer, for the 12-month
period preceding the date of the application of the homebuyer
for assistance under this subtitle, does not exceed—
(A) 95 percent of the median income for a family of 4
persons (adjusted by family size) in the applicable metropolitan statistical area (or such other area that the Board of
Directors determines for areas outside of metropolitan
statistical areas); or
(B) 115 percent of such median income (adjusted by
family size) in the case of an area that is subject to a high
cost area mortgage limit under title II of the National
Housing Act.
The Board of Directors shall provide for certification of such
income for purposes of initial eligibility for assistance pajnnents
under this subtitle and shall provide for recertification of homebuyers (and families of homebuyers) so assisted not less than
every 2 years thereafter.
(3) CERTIFICATION.—The homebuyer (and spouse, where applicable) shall certify that the homebuyer has made a good faith
effort to obtain a market rate mortgage and has been denied
because the annual income of the homebuyer and the members
of the family of the homebuyer residing with the homebuyer is
insufficient.
(4) PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.—The property securing the mortgage is a single-family residence or unit in a cooperative and is
the principal residence of the homebuyer. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4131
(5) MAXIMUM MORTGAGE AMOUNT.—The principal obligation
of the mortgage does not exceed the principad amount that could
be insured with respect to the property under the National
Housing Act.
(6) MAXIMUM INTEREST RATE.—The interest payable on the
mortgage is established at a fixed rate that does not exceed a
maximum rate of interest established by the Trust taking into
consideration prevailing interest rates on similar mortgages.
(7) RESPONSIBLE MORTGAGEE.—The mortgage has been made
to, and is held by, a mortgagee that is federally insured or that
is otherwise approved by the Trust as responsible and able to
service the mortgage properly.
(8) MINIMUM DOWNPAYMENT.—For a first-time homebuyer to
receive downpayment assistance under subsection (aX2), the
homebuyer shall have paid not less than 1 percent of the cost of
acquisition of the property (excluding any mortgage insurance
premium paid at the time the mortgage is insured), as such cost
is estimated by the Board of Directors.
(c) TERMS OF ASSISTANCE.—
(1) SECURITY.—Assistance payments under this subtitle shall
be secured by a lien on the property involved. The lien shall be
subordinate to all mortgages existing on the property on the
date on which the first assistance pa5rment is made.
(2) REPAYMENT UPON SALE.—Assistance payments under this
subtitle shall be repayable from the net proceeds of the sale,
without interest, upon the sale of the property for which the
£issistance payments are made. If the sale results in no net
proceeds or the net proceeds are insufficient to repay the
amount of the assistance payments in full, the Board of Directors shall release the lien to the extent that the debt secured by
the lien remains unpaid.
(3) REPAYMENT UPON INCREASED INCOME.—If the aggregate
annual income of the homebuyer (and family of the homebuyer)
assisted under this subtitle exceeds the applicable maximum
income allowable under subsection (bX2) for any 2-year period
after such assistance is provided, the Board of Directors may
provide for the repayment, on a monthly basis, of Eill or a
portion of such assistance payments, based on the amount of
assistance provided and the income of the homebuyer (and
family of the homebuyer).
(4) REPAYMENT IF PROPERTY CEASES TO BE PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE.—If the property for which assistance pa3rments are
made ceases to be the principal residence of the first-time
homebuyer (or the family of the homebuyer), the Board of
Directors may provide for the repayment of all or a portion of
the assistance payments.
(5) AVAILABLE ASSISTANCE.—The Trust may make assistance
payments under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) with
respect to a single mortgage of an eligible homebuyer.
(d) ALLOCATION FORMULA.—Amounts available in any fiscal year
for assistance under this subtitle shall be allocated for homebuyers
in each State on the basis of the need of eligible first-time homebuyers in each State for such assistance in comparison with the need
of eligible first-time homebuyers for such assistance among all
States. 
104 STAT. 4132 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
42 us e 12853. SEC. 304. NATIONAL HOMEOWNERSHIP TRUST FUND.
(a) EsTABUSHMENT.—There is established in the Treasury of the
United States a revolving fund, to be known as the National
Homeownership Trust Fund.
(b) ASSETS.—The Fund shall consist of—
(1) any amount approved in appropriation Acts under section
308 for purposes of carrjdng out this subtitle;
(2) any amount received by the Trust as repa5rment for payments made under this subtitle; and
(3) any amount received by the Trust under subsection (d).
(c) USE OF AMOUNTS.—The Fund shall, to the extent approved in
appropriations Acts, be available to the Trust for purposes of carrying out this subtitle.
(d) INVESTMENT OF EXCESS AMOUNTS.—Any amounts in the Fund
determined by the Trust to be in excess of the amounts currently
required to carry out the provisions of this subtitle shall be invested
by the Trust in obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to both
principal and interest by, the United States or any sigency of the
United States.
(e) DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.—Using not more than $20,000,000
of any amounts appropriated for the Fund under section 308 in
fiscal year 1991, the Secretary shall carry out demonstration programs for combining housing activities and economic development
activities, as follows:
(1) In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in an amount not to exceed
$4,200,000, for development, rehabilitation, and revitalization of
2 vacant structures in a blighted minority neighborhood.
(2) In Washington, District of Columbia, in an amount not to
exceed $10,000,000, for nonprofit neighborhood-based groups to
acquire and rehabilitate vacant public and private housing for
resale or rent to low- and moderate-income families and to the
extent of and subject to engage in neighborhood-based economic
development activities.
(3) In Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in an amount not to exceed
$1,000,000, for technical assistance and organizational support
for a community development corporation that is a city-wide
public/private partnership engaged in the provision of technical assistance to neighborhood community development
corporations.
(4) In other areas, as the Secretary may determine.
42 us e 12854. SEC. 305. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this subtitle:
(1) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—The term "Board of Directors" or
"Board" means the Board of Directors of the National
Homeownership Trust under section 3020t)).
(2) DISPLACED HOMEMAKER.—The term "displaced homemaker" means an individual who—
(A) is an adult;
(B) has not worked full-time full-year in the labor force
for a number of years, but has during such years, worked
primarily without remuneration to care for the home and
family; and
(C) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing
difficulty in obtaining or upgrading emplojonent.
(3) FUND.—The term Fund" means the National
Homeownership Trust Fund established in section 304.
Wisconsin.
District of
Columbia.
Pennsylvania. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4133
(4) SINGLE PARENT.—The term "single parent" means an
individual who—
(A) is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and
(BXi) has 1 or more minor children for whom the individual has custody or joint custody; or
(ii) is pregnant.
(5) STATE.—The term "State" means the States of the United
States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory
of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of
the United States.
(6) TRUST.—The term "Trust" means the National
Homeownership Trust established in section 302.
SEC. 306. REGULATIONS. 42 USC 12855.
The Board of Directors shall issue any regulations necessary to
carry out this subtitle.
SEC. 307. REPORT. 42 USC 12856.
The Board of Directors shall submit to the Congress, not later
than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the
termination of the Trust under section 310, a report containing a
description of the activities of the Trust and an analysis of the
effectiveness of the Trust in assisting first-time homebuyers.
SEC. 308. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. 42 USC 12857.
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle
$250,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and $521,500,000 for fiscal year
1992. Any amount appropriated under this section shall be deposited
in the Fund and remain available until expended, subject to the
provisions of section 309.
SEC. 309. TRANSITION. 42 USC 12858.
(a) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.—Upon the termination of the Trust
as provided in section 310, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development shall exercise any authority of the Board of Directors
and the Trust in accordance with the provisions of this subtitle £is
may be necessary to provide for the conclusion of the outstanding
affairs of the Trust.
(b) APPUCABIUTY OF TRUST PROVISIONS.—Any assistance under
this subtitle shall, after termination of the Trust, be subject to the
provisions of this subtitle that would have applied to such assistance
if the termination had not occurred.
(c) CERTIFICATION OF FUND TO TREASURY.—Upon a determination
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development that the
National Homeownership Trust Fund is no longer necessary, the
Secretary shall certify any emiounts remaining in the Fund to the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Treasury shall
deposit into the general fund of the Treasury as miscellaneous
receipts any amounts remaining in the Fund.
SEC. 310. TERMINATION. 42 USC 12859.
The Trust shall terminate on September 30,1993. 
104 STAT. 4134 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Subtitle B—FHA and Secondary Mortgage
Market
SEC. 321. LIMITATION ON FHA INSURANCE AUTHORITY.
Section 531(b) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1735f-9(b)) is
amended to read as follows:
"(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject only
to the absence of qualified requests for insurance, to the authority
provided in this Act, and to the limitation in subsection (a), the
Secretary shall enter into commitments to insure mortgages under
this Act with an aggregate principal amount of $76,791,000,000
during fiscal year 1991 and $79,818,000,000 during fiscal year 1992.".
SEC. 322. APPRAISAL SERVICES.
Section 202(e) of_the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1708(e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
"(3) DIRECT ENDORSEMENT PROGRAM.—
"(A) Any mortgagee that is authorized by the Secretary to
process mortgages as a direct endorsement mortgagee (pursuant
to the single-family home mortgage direct endorsement program established by the Secretary) may contract with an appraiser chosen at the discretion of the mortgagee for the
performance of appraisals in connection with such mortgages.
Such appraisers may include appraisal companies organized as
corporations, partnerships, or sole proprietorships.
"(B) Any appraisal conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A)
shall be conducted by an individual who complies with the
qualifications or standards for appraisers established by the
Secretary pursuant to section 202(e) of the National Housing
Act.
"(C) In conducting an appraisal, such individual may utilize
the assistance of others, who shall be under the direct supervision of the individual responsible for the appraisal. The
individual responsible for the appraisal shall personally
approve and sign any appraisal report.
"(4) FEE PANEL APPRAISERS.—
"(A) Any individual who is an employee of an appraisal
company (including any company organized as a corporation,
partnership, or sole proprietorship) and who meets the qualifications or standards for appraisers and inclusion on appraiser
fee panels established by the Secretary, shall be eligible for
assignment to conduct appraisals for mortgages under this title
in the same manner and on the same basis as other approved
appraisers.
"(B) With respect to any employee of an appraisal company
described in subparagraph (A) who is offered an appraisal
assignment in connection with a mortgage under this title, the
person utilizing the appraiser may contract directly with the
appraisal company emplojdng the appraiser for the furnishing
of the appraisal services.".
SEC. 323. INCREASE IN MORTGAGE LIMIT.
Section 203(b)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(bX2))
is amended by striking "150 percent (185 percent until October 31, 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625-NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4135
1990) of the dollar amount specified" and inserting the following:
"185 percent of the dollar amount specified".
SEC. 324. MORTGAGOR EQUITY.
Section 203(b)(2) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(bX2))
is amended by adding at the end the following new undesignated
paragraph:
"Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, a mortgage may not involve a principal obligation (including such initial
service charges, appraisal, inspection, and other fees as the Secretary shall approve) in excess of 98.75 percent of the appraised
value of the property (97.75 percent, in the case of a mortgage with
an appraised value in excess of $50,000), plus the amount of the
mortgage insurance premium paid at the time the mortgage is
insured. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term 'appraised
value' means the amount set forth in the written statement required
under section 226, or a similar amount determined by the Secretary
if section 226 does not apply.".
SEC. 325. MORTGAGE INSURANCE PREMIUMS.
(a) PREMIUMS.—Section 203(c) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1709(c)) is amended—
(1) by inserting "(1)" after "(c)";
(2) by striking the last sentence; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
"(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, each
mortgage secured by a 1- to 4-family dwelling and executed on or
after October 1, 1994, that is an obligation of the Mutual Mortgage
Insurance Fund, shall be subject to the following requirements:
"(A) The Secretary shall establish and collect, at the time of
insurance, a single premium payment in an amount equal to
2.25 percent of the amount of the original insured principal
obligation of the mortgage. Upon payment in full of the principal obligation of a mortgage prior to the maturity date of the
mortgage, the Secretary shall refund all of the unearned
premium charges paid on the mortgage pursuant to this
subparagraph.
"(B) In addition to the premium under subparagraph (A), the
Secretary shall establish and collect annual premium payments
in an amount equal to 0.50 percent of the remaining insured
principal balance (excluding the portion of the remaining balance attributable to the premium collected under subparagraph
(A) and without taking into account delinquent payments or
prepayments) for the following periods:
"(i) For any mortgage involving an original principal
obligation (excluding any premium collected under
subparagraph (A)) that is less than 90 percent of the appraised value of the property (as of the date the mortgage is
accepted for insurance), for the first 11 years of the mortgage term.
"(ii) For any mortgage involving an original principal
obligation (excluding any premium collected under
subparagraph (A)) that is greater than or equal to 90 percent of such vsdue, for the first 30 years of the mortgage
term; except that notwithstanding the matter preceding
clause (i), for any mortgage involving an original principsd
obligation (excluding any premium collected under 
104 STAT. 4136 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
subparagraph (A)) that is greater than 95 percent of such
value, the annual premium collected during the 30-year
period under this clause shall be in an amount equal to 0.55
percent of the remaining insured principal balance (excluding the portion of the remaining balance attributable to the
premium collected under subparagraph (A) and without
taking into account delinquent payments or prepayments).".
0?) TRANSITION PROVISIONS.—Notwithstanding section 203(c) of the
National Housing Act (as amended by subsection (a)), mortgage
insurance premiums on mortgages executed during fiscal years 1991
through 1994 and that are obligations of the Mutual Mortgage
Insurance Fund shall be subject to the following requirements:
(1) 1991 AND 1992.—For mortgages executed during fiscal
years 1991 and 1992 (but after the date of the effectiveness of
regulations issued under subsection (c)), the Secretary shall
establish and collect the following premiums:
(A) UP-FRONT.—At the time of insurance, a single premium pa5mient in an amount equal to 3.80 percent of the
amount of the original insured principal obligation of the
mortgage.
(B) ANNUAL.—In addition to the premium under subparagraph (A), annual premium payments in an amount equal
to 0.50 percent of the remaining insured principal balance
(excluding the portion of the remaining balance attributable to the premium collected under subparagraph (A)
and without taking into account delinquent payments or
prepayments), for any mortgage involving an original principal obligation (excluding any premium collected under
subparagraph (A)) that is—
(i) less than 90 percent of the appraised value of the
property (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for
insurance), for the first 5 years of the mortgage term;
(ii) greater than or equal to 90 percent of such value
but equal to or less than 95 percent of such value, for
the first 8 years of the mortgage term; and
(iii) greater than 95 percent of such value, for the
first 10 years of the mortgage term.
(2) 1993 AND 1994.—For mor^ages executed during fiscal
years 1993 and 1994, the Secretary shall establish and collect
the following premiums:
(A) UP-FRONT.—At the time of insurance, a single premium pajrment in an amount equal to 3.00 percent of the
amount of the original insured principal obligation of the
mortgage.
(B) ANNUAL.—In addition to the premium under subparagraph (A), annual premium pa3mients in an amount equal
to 0.50 percent of the remaining insured principal balance
(excluding the portion of the remeiining balance attributable to the premium collected under subparagraph (A)
and without taking into account delinquent payments or
prepayments), for any mortgage involving an original principal obligation (excluding any premium collected under
subparagraph (A) that is—
(i) less than 90 percent of the appraised value of the
property (as of the date the mortgage is accepted for
insurance), for the first 7 years of the mortgage term; 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4137
(ii) greater than or equal to 90 percent of such value
but equal to or less than 95 percent of such value, for
the first 12 years of the mortgage term; and
(iii) greater than 95 percent of such value, for the
first 30 years of the mortgage term.
(3) REFUNDS.—With respect to any mortgage subject to premiums under this subsection, the Secretary shall refund all of
the unearned premium charges paid on a mortgage pursuant to
paragraph (1)(A) or (2)(A) upon payment in full of the principal
obligation of the mortgage prior to the maturity date.
(c) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall issue regulations to carry
out this section and the amendments made by this section not later
than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 326. LIMITATION ON SECONDARY RESIDENCES.
(a) LIMITATION ON SECONDARY RESIDENCES.—Section 203(g)(1) of
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(g)(1)) is amended by
inserting after the period at the end the following new sentence: "In
making this determination with respect to the occupancy of secondary residences, the Secretary may not insure mortgages with respect
to such residences unless the Secretary determines that it is necessary to avoid undue hardship to the mortgagor. In no event may a
secondary residence under this subsection include a vacation home,
as determined by the Secretary.".
(b) APPUCABILITY.—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 12 USC 1709
apply only with respect to— note.
(1) mortgages insured—
(A) pursuant to a conditional commitment issued after
the expiration of the 60-day period beginning on the date of
the enactment of this Act; or
(B) in accordance with the direct endorsement program, if
the approved underwriter of the mortgages signs the appraisal report for the property after the expiration of the
60-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of
this Act; and
(2) the approval of substitute mortgagors, if the original mortgagor was subject to such amendments.
(c) TRANSITION PROVISIONS.—Any mortgage insurance provided 12 use 1709
under title II of the National Housing Act before the expiration of note.
the 60-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act,
shall continue to be governed (to the extent applicable) by the
provisions of section 203(g)(1) of the National Housing Act, as such
provisions existed before the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 327. MORTGAGE COUNSELING FOR DELINQUENT MORTGAGORS.
Section 203(r) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(r)) is
amended—
(1) by striking "and" at the end of paragraph (2);
(2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and
inserting "; and"; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
"(4) providing counseling, either directly or through third
parties, to delinquent mortgagors whose mortgages are insured
under this section 203 (12 U.S.C. 1709), using the Fund to pay for
such counseling.". 
104 STAT. 4138 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
Mortgage SEC. 328. DELEGATION OF PROCESSING.
insurance.
12 use 1713 (a) AUTHORITY.—Not later than the expiration of the 60-day period
note. beginning on the date of enactment this Act, the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development shall implement a system of
mortgage insurance for mor^ages insured under section 207, 221,
223, 232, or 241 of the National Housing Act that delegates processing functions to selected approved mortgagees. Under such system,
the Secretary shall retain the authority to approve rents, expenses,
property appraisals, and mortgsige amounts and to execute a firm
commitment.
(b) FULL INSURANCE PROGRAM.—Notwithstanding subsection (a),
the Secretary shall maintain a viable system for full insurance
programs under such Act under which all processing functions are
performed by officers and employees of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development.
SEC. 329. DISCLOSURE REGARDING INTEREST DUE UPON MORTGAGE
PREPAYMENT.
Section 203 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709), as
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(s)(l) Each mortgagee (or servicer) with respect to a mortgage
under this section shall provide each mortgagor of such mortgagee
(or servicer) written notice, not less than annually, containing a
statement of the amount outstanding for prepayment of the principal amount of the mortgage and describing any requirements the
mortgagor must fulfill to prevent the accrual of any interest on such
principal amount after the date of any prepajnnent. This pareigraph
shall apply to any insured mortgage outstanding on or after the
expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date of effectiveness of final regulations implementing this paragraph.
"(2) Each mortgagee (or servicer) with respect to a mortgage under
this section shall, at or before closing with respect to any such
mortgage, provide the mortgagor with written notice (in such form
as the Secretary shall prescribe, by regulation, before the expiration
of the 90-day period beginning upon the date of the enactment of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act) describing any
requirements the mortgagor must fulfill upon prepayment of the
principal amount of the mortgage to prevent the accrual of any
interest on the principal amount after the date of such prepa3nnent.
This paragraph shall apply to any mortgEige executed after the
expiration of the period under paragraph (1).".
SEC. 330. ACCOUNTABILITY OF MORTGAGE LENDERS.
(a) LIMITATION ON TIERED PRICING PRACTICES.—Section 203 of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709), as amended by the preceding
provisions of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
"(tXD No mortgagee may make or hold mortgages insured under
this section if the customary lending practices of the mortgagee, as
determined by the Secretary pursuant to section 539, provide for a
variation in mortgage charge rates that exceeds 2 percent for insured mortgages made by the mortgagee on dwellings located within
an area. The Secretary shall ensure that any permissible variations
in the mortgage charge rates of any mortgagee are based only on
actual variations in fees or costs to the mortgagee to make the loan.
"(2) For purposes of this subsection— 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4139
"(A) the term 'area' shall have the meaning given the term
under subsection (bX2);
"(B) the term 'mortgage charges' includes the interest rate,
discount points, loan origination fee, and any other amount
charged to a mortgagor with respect to an insured mortgage;
and
"(C) the term 'mortgEige charge rate' means the amount of
mortgage charges for an insured mortgage expressed as a
percentage of the initial principal amount of the mortgage.".
(b) SANCTIONS OF MORTGAGEES.—Title V of the National Housing
Act (12 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
Federal
Register,
publication.
EXAMINATIONS AND SANCTIONS FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS
"SEC. 539. (a) EXAMINATIONS AND SANCTIONS.— 12 use
"(1) In connection with any examination of a mortgagee I735f-17.
approved by the Secretary pursuant to this Act, the Secretary
shall assess the performance of the mortgagee in meeting the
requirements of sections 203(t), 223(aX7)(B), and 535. Where the
Secretary determines that a mortgagee is not in compliance
with these requirements, the Secretary shall refer the matter to
the Mortgagee Review Board for investigation and appropriate
action.
"(2) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of
the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, the
Secretary shall by notice establish a procedure under which (A)
any person may file a request that the Secretary determine
whether a mortgagee is in compliance with sections 203(t),
223(a)(7)(B), and 535, (B) the Secretary shall inform the person of
the disposition of the request, and (C) the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the disposition of any case referred
by the Secretary to the Mortgagee Review Board. Such procedures shall be established by regulation under section 553 of
title 5, United States Code. The Secretary shall issue regula- Regulations.
tions based on the initial notice before the expiration of the
8-month period beginning on the date of the notice.
"(3) The Secretary shall submit to Congress, not less than Reports.
annually, a report regarding any actions taken to carry out this
section. The report shall include a list of all requests filed
pursu£mt to paragraph (2) and any action taken pursuant to
such requests."
"(b) MONITORING AND REVIEW.—The Secretary shall continually
monitor and undertake a thorough review of the implementation of
this section to assess the impact of the section on the lending
practices of mortgagees and the availability of mortgages insured
under this Act. The Secretary shall monitor the availability of
credit, the number and t5^e of lenders participating in the program,
whether there is any change in the composition or practices of such
lenders and any other factors the Secretary considers appropriate.
The Secretary shall submit to the Congress findings detailing the
results of such monitoring and review not later than 18 months
after the enactment of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act.". 
104 STAT. 4140 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
SEC. 331. MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE FUND DISTRIBUTIONS.
Section 205 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1711) is
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
"(e) In determining whether there is a surplus for distribution to
mortgagors under this section, the Secretary shall take into account
the actuarial status of the entire Fund.".
SEC. 332. ACTUARIAL SOUNDNESS OF MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE
FUND.
Section 205 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1711), as
amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is further amended
by adding at the end the following new subsections:
"(f)(1) The Secretary shall ensure that the Mutual Mortgage
Insurance Fund attains a capital ratio of not less than 1.25 percent
within 24 months after the date of the enactment of this subsection
and maintains such ratio thereafter, subject to paragraph (2).
"(2) The Secretary shall endeavor to ensure that the Mutual
Mortgage Insurance Fund attains a capital ratio of not less than 2.0
percent within 10 years after the date of the enactment of this
subsection, and shall ensure that the Fund maintains at least such
capital ratio at all times thereafter.
Reports. "(3) Upon the expiration of the 24-month period beginning on the
date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit
to the Congress a report describing the actions the Secretary will
take to ensure that the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund attains
the capital ratio required under paragraph (2).
"(4) For purposes of this subsection:
"(A) The term 'capital' means the economic net worth of the
Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund, as determined by the Secretary under the annual audit required under section 538.
"(B) The term 'capital ratio' means the ratio of capital to
unamortized insurance-in-force.
"(C) The term 'economic net worth' means the current cash
available to the Fund, plus the net present value of all future
cash inflows and outflows expected to result from the outstanding mortgages in the Fund.
(D) The term 'unamortized insurance-in-force' means the
remaining obligation on outstanding mortgages which are
obligations of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund, as estimated by the Secretary.
Reports. "(g) The Secretary shall provide for an independent actuarial
study of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund to be conducted
annually and shall report annually to the Congress regarding the
financial status of the Fund.
"(h)(1) If, pursuant to the independent annual actuarial study of
the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund required under subsection (g),
the Secretary determines that the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund
is not meeting the operational goals under paragraph (2), the Secretary may not issue distributions, and may, by regulation, propose
and implement any adjustments to the insurance premiums under
section 203(c) or section 325(b) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National
Affordable Housing Act. Upon determining that a premium change
is appropriate under the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall
immediately notify Congress of the proposed change and the reasons
for the change. Any such premium change shall not take effect
before the expiration of the 90-day period beginning upon such
notification. 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4141
"(2) The operational goals referred to in paragraph (1) shall be—
"(A) maintaining an adequate capital ratio;
"(B) meeting the needs of homebuyers with low
downpayments and first-time homebuyers by providing access
to mortgage credit;
"(C) minimizing the risk to the Fund and to homeowners from
homeowner default; and
"(D) avoiding adverse selection.".
SEC. 333. INSURANCE OF MORTGAGES ON PROPERTY IN VIRGIN ISLANDS.
Section 214 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715d) is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking "Alaska, Guam, or
Hawaii," and inserting "Alaska, Guam, Hawaii, or the Virgin
Islands,";
(2) by striking "Alaska or in Guam or Hawaii" each place it
appears and inserting "Alaska, Guam, Hawaii, or the Virgin
Islands";
(3) by inserting ", the Virgin Islands," after "Government of
Guam' each place it appears; and
(4) by striking the section heading and inserting the following:
"INSURANC E OF MORTGAGES ON PROPERTY IN ALASKA, GUAM, HAWAII,
AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS".
SEC. 334. HOME EQUITY CONVERSION MORTGAGE INSURANCE DEMONSTRATION.
(a) LIMITATION ON INSURANCE AUTHORITY AND MAXIMUM AMOUNT
INSURED.—
(1) NUMBER OF MORTGAGES INSURED.—Section 255(g) of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)) is amended by
striking the second sentence and inserting the following: "The
total number of mortgages insured under this section may not
exceed 25,000.".
(2) TERMINATION DATE.—The first sentence of section 255(g) of
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(g)) is amended by
striking "September 30, 1991" and inserting "September 30,
1995".
(b) TYPES OF LOANS.—Section 255(d) of the National Housing Act
(12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(d)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (7), by striking "and" at the end;
(2) in paragraph (8), by striking the period at the end and
inserting a semicolon; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
"(9) provide for future payments to the mortgagor based on
accumulated equity (minus any applicable fees and charges),
according to the method that the mortgagor shall select from
among the methods under this paragraph, by pajonent of the
amount—
"(A) based upon a line of credit;
"(B) on a monthly basis over a term specified by the
mortgagor;
"(C) on a monthly basis over a term specified by the
mortgagor and based upon a line of credit;
"(D) on a monthly basis over the tenure of the mortgagor;
"(E) on a monthly basis over the tenure of the mortgagor
£ind based upon a line of credit; or 
104 STAT. 4142 PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990
"(F) on any other basis that the Secretary considers
appropriate; and
"(10) provide that the mortgagor may convert the method of
pa5rment under paragraph (9) to any other method during the
term of the mortgage, except that in the case of a fixed
rate mortgage, the Secretary may, by regulation, limit such
convertibility.".
(c) LIMITATION ON LIABIUTY OF MORTGAGOR.—Section 255(dX7) of
the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20(d)(7)) is amended
by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following new
subparagraph:
"(A) the net ssdes proceeds from the dwelling that are subject
to the mortgage (based upon the amount of the accumulated
equity selected by the mortgagor to be subject to the mortgage,
as agreed upon by the mortgagor and mortgagee); or".
(d) DISCLOSURES BY MORTGAGEE REGARDING LIABIUTY OF MORTGAGOR.—Section 255(e) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1715z-20(e)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by inserting after "statement" the following: "informing the homeowner that the liability of the homeowner
under the mortgage is limited and"; and
(B) by striking "and" at the end;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and
inserting "; and"; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
"(4) prior to loan closing, a statement of the projected total
cost of the mortgage to the homeowner based on the projected
total future loan balance (such cost expressed as a single average annual interest rate for at least 2 different appreciation
rates for the term of the mortgage) for not less than 2 projected
loan terms, as the Secretary shall determine, which shall
include—
"(A) the cost for a short-term mortgage; and
"(B) the cost for a loan term equaling the actuarial life
expectancy of the mortgagor.".
SEC. 335. INFORMATION REGARDING EARLY DEFAULTS ON FHA-INSURED
LOANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 539 (as added by this Act)
the following new section:
"INFORMATION REGARDING EARLY DEFAULTS AND FORECLOSURES ON
INSURED MORTGAGES
12 use "SEC. 540. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Housing and Urban
I735f-18. Development shall collect and maintain information regarding early
defaults on mortgages as provided under this section. The Secretary
shall make such information available for public inspection upon
request. Information shall be collected quarterly with respect to
each applicable collection period (as such term is defined in subsection (c)) and shall be available for inspection not more than 30 days
after the conclusion of the calendar quarter relating to each such
period. Information shall first be made available under this section
for the applicable collection period relating to the first calendar 
PUBLIC LAW 101-625—NOV. 28, 1990 104 STAT. 4143
quarter ending more than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.
"(b) CONTENTS.—
"(1) MORTGAGE LENDER ANALYSIS.—Information collected
under this section shall include, for each lender originating
mortgages during the applicable collection period that are insured pursuant to section 203 and secured by property in a
designated census tract, the following information with respect
to such mortgages:
"(A) The name of the lender and the number of each
designated census tract in which the lender originated 1 or
more such mortgages during the applicable collection
period.
"(B) The total number of such mortgages originated by
such lender during the applicable collection period in each
designated census tract and the number of mortgages originated each year in each designated census tract.
"(C) The total number of defaults and foreclosures on
such mortgages during the applicable collection period in
each designated census tract and the number of defaults
and foreclosures in each designated census tract in each
year of the period.
"(D) For each designated census tract, the percentage of
such lender's total insured mortgages originated during
each year of the applicable collection period (with respect to
properties within such census tract) on which defaults or
foreclosures have occurred during the applicable collection
period.
"(E) The total of all such originations, defaults, and foreclosures on insured mortgsiges originated by such lender
during the applicable collection period for all designated
census tracts and the percentage of the total number of
such lender's insured mortgage originations on which defaults or foreclosures have occurred during the applicable
collection period.
"(2) OTHER INFORMATION.—Information collected under this
section shall also include the following:
"(A) For each lender referred to under paragraph (1), the
total number of insured mortgages originated by the lender
secured by properties not located in a designated census
tract, the total number of defaults and foreclosures on such
mortgages, and the percentage of such mortgages originated on which defaults or foreclosures occurred during the
applicable collection period.
(B) For each designated census tract, the total number of
mortgages originated during the applicable collection
period that are insured pursuant to section 203, the number
of defaults and foreclosures occurring on such mortgages
during such period, and the percentage of the total insured
mortgage originations during the period on which defaults
or foreclosures occurred.
"(c) ANNUAL REPORTS.—The Secretary shall submit to the Congress annually a report containing the information collected and
maintained under subsection (b) for the relevant year.
"(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section:
"(1) APPLICABLE COLLECTION PERIOD.—The term 'applicable
collection period' means the 5-year period ending on the last day...