Calendar No. 55
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 593
A BILL
To exempt certain activities from provisions of the antitrust laws.
May 12 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Reported with amendments
S 593 RS
Calendar No. 55
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 593
To exempt certain activities from provisions of the antitrust laws.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 15 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. SIMON (for himself, Mr. METZENBAUM, Mr. THURMOND, Mr. SIMPSON,
Mr. DECONCINI, Mr. HEFLIN, Mr. CHAFEE, Mr. KOHL, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. GORE,
Mr. COCHRAN, and Mr. BREAUX) introduced the following bill; which was read
twice and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary
May 12 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Reported by Mr. BIDEN, with amendments
A BILL
To exempt certain activities from provisions of the antitrust laws.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) actions specified in
  section 2 shall be exempt from the antitrust laws of the United States.
  (b) For purposes of this Act--
  (1) `antitrust laws' has the meaning given such term in the first section
  of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12), and shall also include section 5 of
  the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45);
  (2) `person in the television industry' means a television network, any
  entity which produces programming for television distribution, including
  theatrical motion pictures, the National Cable Television Association,
  the Association of Independent Television Stations, Inc., the National
  Association of Broadcasters, the Motion Picture Association of America,
  and each of the networks' affiliate organizations, and shall include any
  individual acting on behalf of such person; and
  (3) `telecast' means any program broadcast by a television broadcast
  station or transmitted by a cable television system.
  SEC. 2. The antitrust laws shall not apply to any joint discussion,
  consideration, review, action, or agreement by or among persons in the
  television industry for the purpose of, and limited to developing and
  disseminating voluntary guidelines designed to: (1) alleviate the negative
  impact of violence in telecast material, or (2) alleviate the negative
  impact of illegal drug use in telecast material.
  SEC. 3. (a) The exemption provided in section 2 shall not apply to any joint
  discussion, consideration, review, action, or agreement which results in
  a boycott of any person.
  (b) The exemption provided in section 2 shall apply only to activities
  conducted within 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
  SEC. 4. This Act may be cited as the `Television Violence Act'.