Calendar No. 181
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 686
[Report No. 101-94]
A BILL
To consolidate and improve Federal laws providing compensation and establishing
liability for oilspills.
July 28, 1989
Reported with amendments
S 686 RS
Calendar No. 181
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 686
[Report No. 101-94]
To consolidate and improve Federal laws providing compensation and establishing
liability for oilspills.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 4, (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. MITCHELL (for himself, Mr. Baucus, Mr. LAUTENBERG, Mr. BIDEN, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. ADAMS, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. FOWLER, Mr. CRANSTON, and Mr. COHEN) introduced
the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works
July 28, 1989
Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of July 27 (legislative
day, January 3), 1989, by Mr. BURDICK, with amendments
[Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]
A BILL
To consolidate and improve Federal laws providing compensation and establishing
liability for oilspills.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled,  [Struck out->] That this Act may be cited
  as the `Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of 1989'. [<-Struck out]
  SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Oil Pollution
  Liability and Compensation Act of 1989'.
  SEC. 2. Table of Contents-
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Findings.
TITLE I--OIL POLLUTION LIABILITY AND COMPENSATION
Sec. 101. Definitions.
Sec. 102. Liability.
Sec. 103. Uses of fund.
Sec. 104. Financial responsibility.
Sec. 105. Litigation, jurisdiction, and venue.
Sec. 106. State laws and programs.
TITLE II--OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RESPONSE
Sec. 201. Federal responsibility.
Sec. 202. National contingency plan.
Sec. 203. Regional oil spill response teams.
Sec. 204. Oil spill contingency plan development and approval.
Sec. 205. Oil spill research and development program.
Sec. 206. Penalties.
Sec. 207. Study of spill prevention in restricted waters.
TITLE III--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
Sec. 301. Trans-Alaska pipeline fund.
Sec. 302. Intervention on the High Seas Act.
Sec. 303. Clean Water Act.
Sec. 304. Deep Water Port Act.
Sec. 305. Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.
  SEC. 3. FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) oil spills in coastal and inland waters that are not contained and
  removed promptly and completely can cause serious environmental damage,
  including contamination of water, fouling of shorelines, and injury to fish,
  shellfish, and wildlife;
  (2) oil spills in coastal and inland waters that are not contained and
  removed promptly and completely can cause significant economic impacts
  including damage to commercial and recreational fisheries, loss of
  recreational opportunities, and declines in tourism and related activities;
  (3) oil spills occur on a regular basis in United States coastal and inland
  waters, with over ten thousand oil spills reported each year between 1973
  and 1985;
  (4) in March of this year, the largest oil spill in United States history
  occurred when the tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground in Prince William Sound,
  Alaska, spilling eleven million gallons of crude oil to the surrounding
  waters;
  (5) the Exxon Valdez spill caused widespread and significant adverse
  impacts to the marine environment, to fish, birds, marine mammals, and
  other wildlife, to the commercial fishery of Southeast Alaska and to
  Native villages and subsistence users, and the cleanup of the spill will
  cost millions of dollars;
  (6) in the several months since the wreck of the Exxon Valdez, three
  additional major oil spills occurred within a twenty-four hour period
  in waters off Rhode Island, in the Delaware River, and in the Houston
  Ship Channel;
  (7) there is a need to establish an adequate system of liability and
  compensation to assure prompt and complete cleanup of spilled oil and to
  compensate those damaged by such pollution;
  (8) it is essential that State oil pollution liability and compensation
  statutes not be preempted in any manner by Federal law or international
  protocols;
  (9) there is a need to provide clear direction to the President to ensure
  prompt and proper response to oil spills unless the President specifically
  determines that a private party is providing such a response;
  (10) there is a need to establish minimum Federal standards and requirements
  for Federal approval in contingency planning to assure the prompt and
  effective response to oil spills from facilities and vessels;
  (11) there is a need to establish an adequate and effective system of
  response centers storing necessary vessels, equipment, and supplies and
  housing necessary personnel to assure the prompt and effective response
  to oil spills from facilities and vessels;
  (12) there is a need to provide for full and sustained involvement of
  local citizens and interested groups including fishing, business, and
  environmental interests, in the development of oil spill contingency plans
  and the oversight of operations at major oil facilities and terminals;
  (13) there is a need to establish a clear and sufficient structure of
  penalties to effectively deter those who would discharge oil to the waters
  of the United States or to punish those who cause such discharges;
  (14) there is a need to establish an adequate program of research to
  develop technologies and practices to clean up oil spills, to understand the
  environmental impacts of such spills, or to develop the necessary baseline
  information on the marine environment to understand the long-term effects
  of such spills; and
  (15) it is essential that measures to address the problems associated with
  prevention, response, cleanup, and compensation relating to oil spills be
  enacted into law at the earliest possible date.
TITLE I--OIL POLLUTION LIABILITY AND COMPENSATION
DEFINITIONS
  SEC. 101. For the purposes of this Act--
  (1) the terms `vessel', `public vessel', `owner or operator', `remove' or
  `removal', `contiguous zone', `onshore facility', `offshore facility', and
  `barrel' shall have the meaning provided in section 311(a) of the Clean
  Water Act;
  (2) the terms `person', `navigable waters', and `territorial seas' shall
  have the meaning provided in section 502 of the Clean Water Act;
  (3) the term `act of God' means an unanticipated grave natural disaster or
  other natural phenomenon of an exceptional, inevitable, and irresistible
  character the effects of which could not have been prevented or avoided
  by the exercise of due care or foresight;
  (4) the term `claim' means a request, made in writing for a sum certain, for
  compensation for damages or removal costs resulting from a discharge of oil;
  (5) the term `claimant' means any person who presents a claim for
  compensation under this Act;
  (6) the term `damages' means damages for economic loss or the loss of or
  injury to natural resources as specified in section 102(a) of this Act;
  (7) the term `deepwater port facility' means an offshore facility which
  is or was licensed under the Deepwater Port Act of 1974;
  (8) the term `discharge' means any emission other than natural seepage,
  intentional or unintentional, into the environment, and includes, but is
  not limited to, spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
  or dumping;
  (9) the term `environment' means the navigable waters, the waters of
  the contiguous zone, the ocean waters of which the natural resources are
  under the exclusive management authority of the United States under the
  Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act, adjoining shorelines,
  and the ambient air above such waters and shorelines;
  (10) the term `foreign offshore unit' means a structure or group of
  structures which is located, in whole or in part, in the territorial sea
  or on the continental shelf of a foreign country and is or was used for one
  or more of the following purposes: exploring for, drilling for, producing,
  storing, handling, transferring, processing, or transporting oil produced
  from the seabed beneath the foreign country's territorial sea or from the
  foreign country's continental shelf;
  (11) the term `Fund' means the Oil Spill Compensation Fund, hereby
  established under this Act;
  (12) the term `guarantor' means any person, other than the owner or operator,
  who provides evidence of financial responsibility for an owner or operator
  under this Act or section 311(p) of the Clean Water Act;
  (13) the term `lessee' means a person holding a leasehold interest in
  an oil or gas lease on submerged lands of the Outer Continental Shelf,
  granted or maintained under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act;
  (14) the term `liable' or `liability' under this Act shall be construed
  to be the standard of liability which obtains under section 311 of the
  Clean Water Act;
  (15) the term `mobile offshore drilling unit' means a vessel capable of
  use as an Outer Continental Shelf facility to drill for oil;
  (16) the term `natural resources' includes land, fish, wildlife, biota,
  air, water, ground water, drinking water supplies, and other such resources
  belonging to, managed by, held in trust by, appertaining to, or otherwise
  controlled by the United States (including the resources of the fishery
  conservation zone established by the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
  Management Act), any State or local government, or any foreign government;
  (17) the term `oil' means petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction
  or residue therefrom;
  (18) the term `Outer Continental Shelf facility' means an offshore facility
  which is located, in whole or in part, on the Outer Continental Shelf and
  is or was used for one or more of the following purposes: exploring for,
  drilling for, producing, storing, handling, transferring, processing,
  or transporting oil produced from the Outer Continental Shelf;
  (19) the term `owner or operator' means--
  (A) with respect to an Outer Continental Shelf facility other than a
  pipeline or mobile offshore drilling unit, the lessee or permittee of the
  area in which the facility is located, or the holder of a right of use and
  easement granted under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act for the area
  in which the facility is located (where the holder is a different person
  than the lessee or permittee);
  (B) with respect to a mobile offshore drilling unit being used as an
  Outer Continental Shelf facility, from which oil is discharged on or
  above the surface of the water (or which posed a substantial threat of
  such a discharge), the owner or operator of the unit, and such unit shall
  be deemed to be a tanker;
  (C) with respect to a mobile offshore drilling unit being used as an Outer
  Continental Shelf facility--
  (i) from which oil is discharged on or above the surface of the water (or
  which posed a substantial threat of such a discharge), to the extent removal
  costs or damages exceed the limitation specified in section 102(c)(1)(A), or
  (ii) from which oil is discharged below the surface of the water (or which
  posed a substantial threat of such a discharge),
the lessee or permittee of the area in which the unit is located, or the
holder of a right of use and easement granted under the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act for the area in which the unit is located (where the holder
is a different person than the lessee or permittee);
  (20) the term `permittee' means a person holding an authorization, license,
  or permit for geological exploration issued under section 11 of the Outer
  Continental Shelf Lands Act;
  (21) the term `removal costs' means the costs of removal taken after a
  discharge of oil has occurred or where there was a substantial threat of
  a discharge of oil, to prevent, minimize, or mitigate oil pollution from
  that incident, including all costs of completing removal as determined
  under section 106(d). Such removal costs are (1) actual costs incurred by
  the United States, or when under the direction of the responsible Federal
  official, a State or an Indian tribe, not inconsistent with the National
  Contingency Plan, and (2) any other necessary costs of response incurred
  by any other person consistent with the National Contingency Plan;
  (22) the term `tanker' means a vessel constructed or adapted for the
  carriage of oil in bulk or in commercial quantities as cargo; and
  (23) the terms `United States' and `State' mean the several States of the
  United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
  Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth
  of the Northern Marianas, and any other territory or possession over which
  the United States has jurisdiction.
LIABILITY
  SEC. 102. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and
  subject only to the defenses set forth in subsection (b) of this section,
  the owner or operator of a vessel or an onshore or offshore facility from
  which oil is discharged, or which posed the threat of a discharge which
  causes the incurrence of removal costs, shall be liable for--
  (1)(A) all removal costs incurred by the United States Government or a
  State under subsection (c), (d), (e), (f)(4), or (l) of section 311 of the
  Clean Water Act or under the Intervention on the High Seas or section 18
  of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974; and
  (B) any removal costs incurred by any person, including, but not limited
  to, any State; and
  (2) all damages for economic loss or loss of natural resources resulting
  from such a discharge, including--
  (A) any injury to, destruction of, or loss of any real or personal property;
  (B) any loss of use of real or personal property;
  (C) any injury to, destruction,  [Struck out->] of,  [<-Struck out]
  mitigation, or loss of natural resources, including the reasonable costs
  of assessing such injury, destruction, or loss;
  (D) any loss of use, including loss of subsistence use, of any natural
  resources, without regard to the ownership or management of such resources;
  (E) any loss of income or profits or impairment of earning capacity resulting
  from injury to or destruction of real or personal property or natural
  resources, without regard to the ownership of such property or resources; and
  (F) any direct or indirect loss of tax, royalty, rental, or net profits
  share revenue by the Federal Government or any State or political subdivision
  thereof, for a period of not to exceed one year.
  (b)(1) There shall be no liability under subsection (a) of this section
  for a person otherwise liable who can establish by a preponderance of the
  evidence that the discharge or threat of discharge of oil and the damages
  resulting therefrom were caused solely by--
  (A) an act of God;
  (B) an act of war;
  (C) an act or omission of a third party other than an employee or agent
  of the defendant, or than one whose act or omission occurs in connection
  with a contractual relationship, existing directly or indirectly, with
  the defendant (except where the sole contractual arrangement arises from a
  published tariff and acceptance for carriage by a common carrier by rail),
  if the defendant establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that
  (i) the defendant exercised due care with respect to the oil concerned,
  taking into consideration the characteristics of such oil, in light of all
  relevant facts and circumstances, and (ii) the defendant took precautions
  against foreseeable acts or omissions of any such third party and the
  consequences that could foreseeably result from such acts or omissions; or
  (D) any combination of the foregoing paragraphs.
  (2) In any case where the owner or operator of a vessel or an onshore or
  offshore facility can establish by a preponderance of the evidence that
  a discharge and the damages resulting therefrom were caused solely by
  an act or omission of a third party in accordance with paragraph (1)(C)
  (or solely by such an act or omission in combination with an act of God
  or an act of war), such third party shall be liable under this section as
  if such third party were the owner or operator of a vessel or onshore or
  offshore facility from which the discharge actually occurred. Where the
  owner or operator of a tanker or an onshore or offshore facility which
  handles or stores oil in bulk or commercial quantities, from which oil is
  discharged, alleges that such discharge was caused solely by an act or
  omission of a third party, such owner or operator shall promptly pay to
  the United States Government, and any other claimant, the costs of removal
  or damages claimed and shall be entitled by subrogation to all rights of
  the United States Government or other claimant to recover such costs of
  removal or damages from such third party under this sub-section.
  (c)(1) The liability of an owner or operator of a vessel or an onshore
  or offshore facility for damages and removal costs under this section for
  each discharge or incident shall not exceed--
  (A) $500 per gross ton or $10,000,000, whichever is greater, of any tanker
  carrying oil in bulk or in commercial quantities as cargo, including any
  such barge operating in the navigable waters;
  (B) $300 per gross ton or $500,000, whichever is greater, of any other
  vessel;
  (C)  [Struck out->] the total of all removal costs under subsection (a)(1)
  of this section plus $75,000,000  [<-Struck out] $100,000,000 for any
  Outer Continental Shelf facility;
  (D) $100,000,000 for any deepwater port facility (including the liability
  of the licensee for a discharge from any vessel moored at such port,
  in any case where $100,000,000 exceeds $500 per gross ton of such vessel); or
  (E) $100,000,000 for any other onshore or offshore facility.
The liability of an owner or operator under this section for interest
(including prejudgment interest) shall not be subject to the limitations of
this paragraph.
  (2) Notwithstanding the limitations of paragraph (1) of this subsection,
  the liability of the owner or operator of a vessel or an onshore or
  offshore facility under subsection (a) of this section shall be the
  full and total damages and removal costs not offset by any removal costs
  incurred on behalf of such owner or operator, if (A) the discharge of oil
  was the result of willful misconduct or gross negligence  [Struck out->]
  within the privity or knowledge of the owner or operator  [<-Struck out]
  or of a violation  [Struck out->] (within the privity or knowledge of the
  owner or operator)  [<-Struck out] of applicable safety, construction,
  or operating standards or regulations; or (B) the owner or operator fails
  or refuses to report the discharge where required by law or to provide all
  reasonable cooperation and assistance requested by a responsible official in
  connection with removal activities or to provide removal action upon order
  of a responsible official. For the purpose of this paragraph, applicable
  standards or regulations with respect to a vessel shall be those adopted
  or promulgated by a Federal agency.
  (3) Notwithstanding the limitations of paragraph (1) of this subsection or
  the defenses of subsection (b) of this section, all removal costs incurred
  by the United States Government or any State or local official or agency
  in connection with a discharge of oil from any Outer Continental Shelf
  facility or a vessel carrying oil as cargo from such a facility shall be
  borne by the owner or operator of such facility or vessel.
  (4)(A) The President is authorized to establish by regulation, with
  respect to any class or category of onshore or offshore facility subject to
  paragraph (1) (D) or (E) of this subsection, a maximum limit of liability
  under this section of less than $100,000,000, but not less than $8,000,000,
  taking into account the size, storage capacity, oil throughput, proximity
  to sensitive areas, type of oil handled, history of discharges, and other
  factors relevant to risks posed by the class or category of facility.
  (B) The President shall, by regulation, not less often than every three
  years, adjust the limits of liability specified in paragraph (1) of this
  subsection to reflect significant increases in the Consumer Price Index.
  (5) If any person who is liable for a discharge or threat of discharge of
  oil from a vessel or onshore or offshore facility fails without sufficient
  cause to properly provide removal action upon order of the President
  pursuant to this Act, such person may be liable to the United States for
  punitive damages in an amount at least equal to three times the amount of
  any costs incurred by the Fund as a result of such failure to take proper
  action. The President is authorized to commence a civil action against
  any such person to recover the punitive damages. Any moneys received by
  the United States pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited in the Fund.
  (6)(A) Any person who receives and complies with the terms of any order
  issued under paragraph (1) may, within 60 days after completion of the
  required action, petition the President for reimbursement from the Fund
  established under this section for the reasonable costs of such action,
  plus interest. Any interest payable under this subparagraph shall accrue
  on the amounts expended from the date of expenditure at the same rate as
  specified for interest on investments of the Fund.
  (B) If the President refuses to grant all or part of a petition made under
  this paragraph, the petitioner may within 30 days of receipt of such
  refusal file an action against the President in the appropriate United
  States district court seeking reimbursement from the Fund established
  under this section.
  (C) Except as provided in clause (D), to obtain reimbursement, the
  petitioner shall establish by a preponderance of the evidence that it is
  not liable for  [Struck out->] response  [<-Struck out] removal costs and
  damages under subsection (f) of this section and that costs for which it
  seeks reimbursement are reasonable in light of the action required by the
  relevant order.
  (D) A petitioner who is liable for  [Struck out->] response  [<-Struck out]
  removal costs and damages under  [Struck out->] subsection (f)  [<-Struck
  out] of this section may also recover its reasonable costs of response to
  the extent that it can demonstrate, on the administrative record, that the
  President's decision in selecting the removal action ordered was arbitrary
  and capricious or was otherwise not in accordance with law. Reimbursement
  awarded under this subparagraph shall include all reasonable removal costs
  incurred by the petitioner pursuant to the portions of the order found to
  be arbitrary and capricious or otherwise not in accordance with law.
  (E) Reimbursement awarded by a court under clause (C) or (D) may include
  appropriate costs, fees, and other expenses in accordance with subsections
  (a) and (d) of section 2412 of title 28, United States Code.
  (d)(1) In the case of an injury to, destruction of, or loss of natural
  resources under subsection (a)(2)(C) of this section, liability shall be
  (A) to the United States Government for natural resources belonging to,
  managed by, controlled by, or appertaining to the United States, and
  (B) to any State for natural resources within the State or belonging to,
  managed by, controlled by, or appertaining to such State, and (C) where
  subsection (e) of this section applies, to the government of a foreign
  country for natural resources belonging to, managed by, controlled by,
  or appertaining to such government. The President, or the authorized
  representative of any State or of the foreign government, shall act on
  behalf of the public as trustee of such natural resources to recover for
  such damages. Sums recovered by the United States Government as trustee
  under this subsection shall be retained by the trustee, without further
  appropriation, for use only to restore, replace, or acquire the equivalent
  of such natural resources. Sums recovered by a State as trustee under
  this subsection shall be available for use only to restore, replace, or
  acquire the equivalent of such natural resources by the State. The measure
  of damages in any action under subsection (a)(2)(C) shall not be limited
  by the sums which can be used to restore or replace such resources. There
  shall be no double recovery under this Act for natural resource damages,
  including the costs of damage assessment or restoration, rehabilitation,
  or acquisition for the same discharge and natural resource.
  (2)(A) The President shall designate the Federal officials who shall
  act on behalf of the public as trustees for natural resources under this
  Act. Such officials shall assess damages for injury to, destruction of,
  or loss of natural resources for purposes of this Act for those resources
  under their trusteeship and may, upon request of and reimbursement from
  a State and at the Federal officials discretion, assess damages for those
  natural resources under the State's trusteeship.
  (B) The Governor of each State shall designate State officials who may act
  on behalf of the public as trustee for natural resources under this Act
  and shall notify the President of such designations. Such State officials
  shall assess damages to natural resources for the purposes of this Act
  for those natural resources under their trusteeship.
  (C) Any determination or assessment of damages to natural resources for
  the purposes of this Act made by a Federal or State trustee in accordance
  with the regulations promulgated under paragraph (3) of this subsection
  shall have the force and effect of a rebuttable presumption on behalf of
  the trustee in any administrative or judicial proceeding under this Act.
  (3)(A) The President, acting through the Administrator of the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in consultation with the
  Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Director of
  the Fish and Wildlife Service, and the heads of other affected agencies,
  not later than two years after the enactment of this Act, shall promulgate
  regulations for the assessment of damages for injury to, destruction of,
  or loss of natural resources resulting from a discharge of oil for the
  purpose of this Act.
  (B) Such regulations shall specify:  [Struck out->] (i)  [<-Struck out]
  standard procedures for simplified assessments requiring minimal field
  observation, including establishing measures of damages based on units
  of discharge or units of affected areas, where damages equal the costs of
  restoration, replacement, or acquisition of equivalent resources,  [Struck
  out->] plus demonstrated additional lost use value or other damages beyond
  such costs,  [<-Struck out] the diminutions in value of those resources
  pending restoration;  [Struck out->] and (ii) alternative protocols for
  conducting assessments in individual cases to determine the type and extent
  of short and long term injury, destruction, mitigation, or loss. Such
  regulations shall identify the best available procedures to determine such
  damages, including both direct and indirect injury, destruction, or loss,
  and shall take into consideration factors including, but not limited to,
  replacement value, use value, and ability of the ecosystem or resource
  to recover.  [<-Struck out] and the need for individual assessments. Such
  regulations shall identify the best available procedures to determine
  such damages.
  (C) Such regulations shall be reviewed and revised as appropriate every
  two years.
  (e)(1) The recovery of removal costs and damages by (A) persons residing
  in a foreign country, (B) the government of a foreign country, or (C)
  any agency or political subdivision of a foreign country, under this Act,
  shall be exclusively in accordance with this subsection.
  (2) A claimant under this subsection must demonstrate that the claimant has
  not been otherwise compensated for incurred removal costs or damages. Except
  with respect to paragraph (3)(D) of this subsection, a claimant under this
  subsection must demonstrate (A) that recovery is authorized by a treaty or
  executive agreement between the United States and the claimant's country, or
  (B) that the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney General
  and other appropriate officials, has certified that the claimant's country
  provides a comparable remedy for United States claimants.
  (3) Where a discharge, or substantial threat of a discharge of oil in or
  on the territorial sea, internal waters, or adjacent shoreline of a foreign
  country occurs, claims for removal costs and damages may be made under this
  subsection if the removal costs or damages resulted from a discharge of,
  or substantial threat of a discharge, of oil from--
  (A) an Outer Continental Shelf facility or a deepwater port facility,
  (B) a vessel occurring in the navigable waters of the United States,
  (C) a vessel carrying oil as cargo between two ports subject to the
  jurisdiction of the United States; or
  (D) a tanker that received oil at the terminal of the pipeline constructed
  under the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act for transportation to a
  port in the United States, the discharge or threat having occurred prior
  to delivery to that port.
  (4) This subsection shall apply only in the case of discharges of oil
  occurring after the enactment of this Act.
  (f)(1) No indemnification, hold harmless, or similar agreement or conveyance
  shall be effective to transfer from the owner or operator of any vessel
  or onshore or offshore facility or from any person who may be liable for
  a discharge or threat of discharge under this section, to any other person
  the liability imposed under this section. Nothing in this subsection shall
  bar any agreement to insure, hold harmless, or indemnify a party to such
  agreement for any liability under this section.
  (2) Nothing in this Act, including the provisions of paragraph (1) of this
  subsection, shall bar a cause of action that an owner or operator subject
  to liability under this section, or a guarantor, has or would have, by
  reason of subrogation or otherwise against any person.
  (g) The owner or operator of a vessel shall be liable in accordance with this
  section and section 311 of the Clean Water Act, under maritime tort law,
  and as provided in section 106 of this Act, notwithstanding any provision
  of the Act of March 3, 1851 (46 U.S.C. 183), or the absence of any physical
  damage to the proprietary interest of the claimant.
USES OF FUND
  SEC. 103. (a) The President shall use the money in the Fund for the
  following purposes:
  (1) all removal costs or other costs of carrying out the purposes of
  subsections (c), (d), (i), and (l) of section 311 of the Clean Water Act,
  sections 5 and 7 of the Intervention on the High Seas Act, and section 18 of
  the Deepwater Port Act, with respect to discharges, or substantial threats
  of discharges, of oil (as the term `oil' is defined in each respective Act);
  (2) payment of any claim for removal costs or damages--
  (A) in excess of the amount for which the owner or operator of the vessel
  or onshore or offshore facility from which oil is discharged is liable
  under section 102 of this Act;
  (B) where the source of the discharge of oil is not known or cannot be
  identified; or
  (C) in any case where the claim has not been satisfied in accordance with
  subsection (c) of this section;
  (3) payment of any claim for removal costs and damages that have resulted
  from the discharge, or substantial threat of a discharge, of oil from a
  foreign offshore unit;
  (4)(A) payment of costs incurred by any State in responding to a discharge,
  or substantial threat of a discharge, of oil into the navigable waters
  or adjoining shorelines from a vessel, an onshore facility, an offshore
  facility, or a foreign offshore unit, as provided in subsection (d) of
  this section;
  (B) reimbursement to any State for the payment of any claims for removal
  costs or damages payable under this Act which such State has paid with
  funds under the control of such State, including payment pursuant to a
  delegation under subsection (c) of this section;
  (5) the costs of assessing both short-term and long-term injury to,
  destruction of, or loss of any natural resources resulting from a discharge
  of oil;
  (6) the costs of Federal or State efforts in the res-toration,
  rehabilitation, or replacement or acquiring the equivalent of any natural
  resources injured, destroyed, or lost as a result of any discharge of oil;
 [Struck out->]   (7) subject to such amounts as are provided in appropriation
 Acts, the costs of providing equipment and similar overhead, related to
 the purposes of this Act and section 311 of the Clean Water Act, and of
 establishing and maintaining damage assessment capability, for any Federal
 agency involved in strike forces, emergency task forces, or other response
 teams; [<-Struck out]
  (7) the costs of establishing and operating the regional oil spill response
  teams required under section 311(s) of the Clean Water Act, of providing
  other equipment, personnel, and similar overhead related to the purposes of
  this Act and section 311 of the Clean Water Act, and of establishing and
  maintaining damage assessment capability for any Federal agency involved
  in regional oil spill response teams, strike forces, emergency task forces,
  or other response teams;
 (8) subject to such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts, the
 costs of establishing and maintaining the oil spill research and development
 program required under section 311(u) of the Clean Water Act;
   [Struck out->] (8)  [<-Struck out] (9) the costs of a program to identify,
   investigate, and take enforcement and abatement action against discharges
   of oil, including the provisions of section 311(j)(1) (C) and (D) of the
   Clean Water Act; and
   [Struck out->] (9)  [<-Struck out] (10) all administrative and personnel
   costs of administering the Fund and this Act.
  (b) The maximum amount which may be paid from the Fund with respect to any
  single discharge or incident shall not exceed  [Struck out->] $500,000,000
  [<-Struck out] $1,000,000,000.
  (c)(1) The President is authorized to promulgate regulations designating one
  or more Federal officials who may obligate money in the Fund in accordance
  with subsection (a) of this section or portions thereof. The President is
  also authorized to delegate authority to obligate money in the Fund or to
  settle claims to officials of a State with an adequate program operating
  under a cooperative agreement with the Federal Government.
  (2) The President is authorized to delegate the administration of his duties
  and authorities under this Act to the heads of those Federal departments,
  agencies, and instrumentalities which the President determines appropriate.
  (3)(A) Notwithstanding section 9509(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of
  1954, as revised, the Secretary of the Treasury shall, at the request
  of the Secretary, advance such sums to the Fund in such amount and at
  such times as are necessary: Provided, That amounts advanced shall not
  be greater than $1,000,000,000 per incident: Provided further, That the
  aggregate amount of repayable advances to the Fund which is outstanding
  at any one time shall not exceed $1,000,000,000: And provided further,
  That such advances shall be repaid with interest on or before five years
  from the date the advance is received into the Fund.
  (B) Advances made pursuant to this paragraph shall be repaid, and interest
  on such advances shall be paid, to the general fund of the Treasury. Such
  interest shall be calculated at the average of the highest rate for
  commercial and finance company paper of maturities of one hundred and
  eighty days or less obtaining on each of the days included within the
  period for which the interest must be paid to the claimant, as published
  in the Federal Reserve bulletin.
   [Struck out->] (3)(A)  [<-Struck out] (4)(A) The President shall promulgate,
   and may from time to time amend, regulations for the presentation, filing,
   processing, settlement, and adjudication of claims for removal costs or
   damages resulting from the discharge, or substantial threat of a discharge,
   of oil under this Act.
  (B) Whenever the President receives information from any person alleging
  that a person has incurred removal costs or damages resulting from the
  discharge, or substantial threat of a discharge, of oil respecting which
  the owner or operator of a vessel or onshore or offshore facility is or
  may be liable under section 102 of this Act, the President shall notify
  the owner, operator, or guarantor or such vessel or facility of that
  allegation. Such owner or operator or guarantor may, within five days after
  receiving the notification or presentation of any claim by a claimant,
  deny the allegation, or deny liability for removal costs and damages for
  any of the reasons set forth in subsection (b) of section 102 of this Act.
  (C) The owner or operator of any vessel or onshore or offshore facility
  from which oil has been discharged shall provide notice to all potentially
  injured parties.
  (D) No claims may be asserted against the Fund pursuant to subsection
  (a) unless such claim is presented in the first instance to the owner
  or operator or guarantor of the vessel or onshore or offshore facility
  from which oil has been discharged, if known to the claimant, and to any
  other person known to the claimant who may be liable under section 102. In
  any case where the claim has not been satisfied within one hundred eighty
  days of presentation in accordance with this subsection, the claimant may
  present the claim to the Fund for payment. No claim against the Fund may
  be approved or certified during the pendency of an action by the claimant
  in court to recover costs which are the subject of the claim.
  (d) The Governor of each State, or any appropriate State official
  designated by the Governor, is authorized to obligate the Fund for the
  payment of removal costs in an amount not to exceed $250,000 per discharge
  or substantial threat of discharge of oil, for the purpose of immediate
  response, subject only to the requirement that the President be notified
  within twenty-four hours of any such obligation under the authority of this
  sentence. In addition, the President shall enter into an agreement with the
  Governor of any interested State to provide a procedure by which the Governor
  or designated State official may undertake additional removal action or
  obligate the Fund for the additional payment of removal costs for response
  to a particular discharge or substantial threat of discharge, subject to
  such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon. Payments under subsection
  (a)(4)(A) of this section, other than as authorized by the first sentence
  of this subsection, shall be made in accordance with such agreements. The
  President shall, not later than six months after the enactment of this Act,
  publish proposed regulations further establishing how the authority of this
  subsection to obligate the Fund or enter into agreements is to be exercised,
  and, not later than three months after the close of the comment period on
  such proposed regulations, shall promulgate such regulations.
  (e)(1) Payment of any claim by the Fund under this section shall be subject
  to the United States Government acquiring by subrogation all rights of the
  claimant to recover the removal costs or damages from the responsible party.
  (2) Any person, including the Fund, who pays compensation pursuant to this
  Act to any claimant for costs or damages shall be subrogated to all rights,
  claims, and causes of action for those costs and damages that the claimant
  has under this Act or under any other law.
  (3) Upon request of the President, the Attorney General shall commence an
  action on behalf of the Fund to recover any compensation paid by the Fund
  to any claimant pursuant to this Act, and, without regard to any limitation
  of liability with respect to an owner or operator under section 102(c),
  all costs incurred by the Fund by reason of the claim, including interest
  (including prejudgment interest), administrative and adjudicative costs,
  and attorney's fees. Such an action may be commenced against any owner or
  operator or (subject to section 104(e)) guarantor, or against any other
  person who is liable, pursuant to any law, to the compensated claimant
  or to the Fund, for the cost or damages for which the compensation was
  paid. Such an action shall be commenced against the responsible foreign
  government or other responsible party to recover any removal costs or
  damages paid from the Fund as the result of the discharge, or substantial
  threat of discharge, of oil from a foreign offshore unit.
  (f) The Fund shall not be available to pay any claim for costs or damages
  to the extent the discharge or the damages had been caused by the gross
  negligence or willful misconduct of that particular claimant.
  (g) The Comptroller General shall provide an audit review team to audit
  all payments, obligations, reimbursements, or other uses of the Fund,
  to assure that the Fund is being properly administered and that claims
  are being appropriately and expeditiously considered. The Comptroller
  General shall submit to the Congress an interim report one year after
  the establishment of the Fund. The Comptroller General shall thereafter
  provide such auditing of the Fund as is appropriate. Each Federal agency
  shall cooperate with the Comptroller General in carrying out this subsection.
  (h)(1) No claim may be presented under this section for recovery of
  removal costs after the date six years after the date of completion of
  all removal action.
  (2) No claim may be presented under this section for recovery of damages
  unless the claim is presented within three years after the date of the
  discovery of the loss and its connection with the release in question, or
  in the case of damages under section 102(a)(2)(C), if later, the date on
  which final regulations are promulgated under section 102(d)(3) of this Act.
  (3) The time limitations contained herein shall not begin to run--
  (A) against a minor until the earlier of the date when such minor reaches
  eighteen years of age or the date on which a legal representative is duly
  appointed for the minor, or
  (B) against an incompetent person until the earlier of the date on which such
  incompetent's incompetency ends or the date on which a legal representative
  is duly appointed for such incompetent.
  (i) Where the President has paid out of the Fund for any removal costs or
  any costs specified under subsection (a) (5) or (6), no other claim may
  be paid out of the Fund for the same costs.
  (j) Except in a situation requiring action to avoid an irreversible loss
  of natural resources or to prevent or reduce any continuing danger to
  natural resources or similar need for emergency action, funds may not be
  used under this Act for the restoration, rehabilitation, or replacement
  or acquisition of the equivalent of any natural resources until a plan for
  the use of such funds for such purposes has been developed and adopted by
  affected Federal agencies and the Governor or Governors of any State having
  sustained damage to natural resources within its borders, belonging to,
  managed by or appertaining to such State, after adequate public notice
  and opportunity for hearing and consideration of all public comment.
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
  SEC. 104. (a)(1) The owner or operator of any vessel over three hundred gross
  tons (except a non-self-propelled barge that does not carry oil as cargo or
  fuel), using any port or place in the United States or the navigable waters
  or any outer continental shelf facility or deepwater port facility or the
  water of the exclusive economic zone to transship or lighter oil destined
  for a port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,
  shall establish and maintain, in accordance with regulations promulgated
  by the President, evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet
  the maximum amount of liability to which, in the case of a tanker, the
  owner or operator could be subjected under section 102(c)(1)(A) of this
  Act, or to which, in the case of any other vessel, the owner or operator
  could be subjected under section 102(c)(1)(B) of this Act, in a case where
  the owner or operator would be entitled to limit liability under that
  section. If the owner or operator owns or operates more than one vessel,
  evidence of financial responsibility need be established only to meet the
  maximum liability applicable to the largest of such vessels.
  (2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall withhold or revoke the clearance
  required by section 4197 of the Revised Statutes of the United States of
  any vessel subject to this subsection that does not have the certification
  required under this subsection or the regulations issued hereunder.
  (3) The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating
  may (A) deny entry to any outer continental shelf facility, and deepwater
  port facility, or any port or place in the United States, or (B) detain at
  such a facility or port or place, any vessel that, upon request, does not
  produce the certification required under this subsection or the regulations
  issued hereunder.
  (4) Any vessel subject to the requirements of this subsection which is
  found in the navigable waters without the necessary evidence of financial
  responsibility shall be subject to seizure by the United States of any
  oil carried as cargo.
  (b) Each owner or operator with respect to an outer continental shelf
  facility, deepwater port facility, or other offshore facility, shall
  establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility sufficient
  to meet the maximum amount of liability to which the owner or operator
  could be subjected under section 102 of this Act in a case where the
  owner or operator would be entitled to limit liability under that section,
  or, in the case of an Outer Continental Shelf facility, in the amount of
  $100,000,000. Such evidence of financial responsibility shall be established
  according to regulations prescribed by the President.
  (c) Financial responsibility under this section may be established by any
  one, or by any combination, of the following methods, which the President
  determines to be acceptable: evidence of insurance, surety bond, guarantee,
  letter of credit, qualification as a self-insurer, or other evidence of
  financial responsibility. Any bond filed shall be issued by a bonding
  company authorized to do business in the United States. In promulgating
  requirements under this section, the President is authorized to specify
  policy or other contractual terms, conditions, or defenses which are
  necessary, or which are unacceptable, in establishing such evidence of
  financial responsibility in order to effectuate the purposes of this Act.
  (d) Any claim for which liability may be established under section 102 of
  this Act may be asserted directly against any guarantor providing evidence
  of financial responsibility for an owner or operator liable under that
  section for costs and damages to which the claim pertains. In defending
  against such a claim, the guarantor may invoke all rights and defenses
  which would be available to the responsible party under section 102. The
  guarantor may also invoke the defense that the discharge was caused by the
  willful misconduct of the owner or operator, but the guarantor may not
  invoke any other defense that might be available in proceedings brought
  by the owner or operator against the guarantor.
  (e) The total liability of any guarantor in a direct action suit brought
  under this section shall be limited to the aggregate amount of the monetary
  limits of the policy of insurance, guarantee, surety bond, letter of credit,
  or similar instrument obtained from the guarantor by the person subject to
  liability under section 102 for the purpose of satisfying the requirement
  for evidence of financial responsibility. Nothing in this subsection shall
  be construed to limit any other State or Federal statutory, contractual,
  or common law liability of a guarantor, including, but not limited to,
  the liability of such guarantor for bad faith either in negotiation or in
  failing to negotiate the settlement of any claim. Nothing in this subsection
  shall be construed, interpreted, or applied to diminish the liability of
  any person under section 102 of this Act or other applicable law.
  (f)(1) Any person who, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing,
  is found to have failed to comply with the requirements of this section
  or the regulations issued thereunder, or with a denial or detention order
  issued under subsection (a)(3) of this section, shall be liable to the United
  States for a civil penalty, not to exceed $25,000 per day of violation. The
  amount of the civil penalty shall be assessed by the President by written
  notice. In determining the amount of the penalty, the President shall take
  into account the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation,
  the degree of culpability, any history of prior violation, ability to pay,
  and such other matters as justice may require. The President may compromise,
  modify, or remit, with or without conditions, any civil penalty which is
  subject to imposition or which has been imposed under this paragraph. If
  any person fails to pay an assessed civil penalty after it has become final,
  the President may refer the matter to the Attorney General for collection.
  (2) In addition to, or in lieu of, assessing a penalty under paragraph
  (1) of this subsection, the President may request the Attorney General to
  secure such relief as necessary to compel compliance with this section,
  including, but not limited to, a judicial order terminating operations. The
  district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction to grant such
  relief as the public interest and the equities of the case may require.
  (g) Any regulation respecting financial responsibility, which has been issued
  pursuant to any provision of law repealed or superseded by this Act, and
  which is in effect on the date immediately preceding the effective date of
  this Act, shall be deemed and construed to be a regulation issued pursuant
  to this section. Such a regulation shall remain in full force and effect
  unless and until superseded by new regulations issued under this section.
LITIGATION, JURISDICTION AND VENUE
  SEC. 105. (a) Review of any regulation promulgated under this Act may be
  had upon application by any interested person only in the Circuit Court
  of Appeals of the United States for the District of Columbia. Any such
  application shall be made within ninety days from the date of promulgation
  of such regulations. Any matter with respect to which review could have been
  obtained under this subsection shall not be subject to judicial review in
  any civil or criminal proceeding for enforcement or to obtain damages or
  recovery of response costs.
  (b) Except as provided in subsections (a) and (c) of this section, the
  United States district courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction
  over all controversies arising under this Act, without regard to the
  citizenship of the parties or the amount in controversy. Venue shall lie
  in any district in which the discharge or injury or damages occurred, or
  in which the defendant resides, may be found, has its principal office,
  or has appointed an agent for service of process. For the purposes of this
  section, the Fund shall reside in the District of Columbia.
  (c) A State trial court of competent jurisdiction over similar claims may
  consider claims under section 102 or State law and any final judgment of
  such court (when no longer subject to ordinary forms of review) shall be
  recognized, valid, and enforceable for all purposes of section 102 and
  section 103 of this Act.
  (d) The provisions of subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall
  not apply to any controversy or other matter resulting from the assessment
  or collection of any tax, or to the review of any regulation promulgated
  under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
  (e) The President may prescribe the necessary regulations to carry out
  this Act.
  (f) No provision of this Act shall be deemed or held to moot any litigation
  concerning any discharge of oil, or any damages associated therewith,
  commenced prior to enactment of this Act.
  (g)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (3) and (4), no action may be
  commenced for damages (as defined in section 101(6)) under this Act,
  unless that action is commenced within three years after the date of the
  discovery of the loss and its connection with the release in question,
  or in the case of damages under section 102(a)(2)(C), if later, the date
  on which regulations are promulgated under section 102(d)(3) of this Act.
  (2) An action for recovery of removal costs referred to in section 102(a)(1)
  must be commenced within three years after completion of the removal
  action. In any such action described in this subsection, the court shall
  enter a declaratory judgment on liability for removal costs or damages
  that will be binding on any subsequent action or actions to recover further
  removal costs or damages. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph,
  an action may be commenced under section 102 for recovery of removal costs
  at any time after such costs have been incurred.
  (3) No action for contribution for any removal costs or damages may be
  commenced more than three years after--
  (A) the date of judgment in any action under this Act for recovery of such
  costs or damages, or
  (B) the date of entry of a judicially approved settlement with respect to
  such costs or damages.
  (4) No action based on rights subrogated pursuant to this Act by reason of
  payment of a claim may be commenced under this Act more than three years
  after the date of payment of such claim.
  (5) The time limitations contained herein shall not begin to run--
  (A) against a minor until the earlier of the date when such minor reaches
  eighteen years of age or the date on which a legal representative is duly
  appointed for such minor, or
  (B) against an incompetent person until the earlier of the date on which such
  incompetent's incompetency ends or the date on which a legal representative
  is duly appointed for such incompetent.
STATE LAWS AND PROGRAMS
  SEC. 106. (a) Nothing in this Act shall be construed or interpreted as
  preempting any State from imposing any additional liability or requirements
  with respect to the discharge of oil or other pollution by oil within
  such State. Nothing in this Act shall affect or modify in any way the
  obligations or liabilities of any person under other Federal or State law,
  including common law, with respect to discharges of oil.
  (b) Nothing in this Act or in section 9507 of the Internal Revenue Code
  of 1954 shall in any way affect, or be construed to affect, the authority
  of any State--
  (1) to establish, or to continue in effect, a fund any purpose of which
  is to pay for costs or damages arising out of, or directly resulting from,
  oil pollution or the substantial threat of oil pollution; or
  (2) to require any person to contribute to such a fund.
  (c) A State may enforce, on the navigable waters of such State, the
  requirements for evidence of financial responsibility applicable under
  section 104 of this Act.
  (d) The President shall consult with the affected State or States on
  the appropriate removal action to be taken. Removal with respect to any
  discharge or incident shall be considered completed when so determined by
  the President and the Governor or Governors of the affected State or States.
  (e) Nothing in this Act, the Act of March 3, 1851, as amended (46 U.S.C. 183
  et seq.), or section 9507 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, shall in
  any way affect, or be construed to affect, the authority of the United
  States or any State or political subdivision thereof--
  (1) to impose additional liability or additional requirements, or
  (2) to impose, or to determine the amount of, any fine or penalty (whether
  criminal or civil in nature) for any violation of law,
relating to the discharge, or substantial threat of a discharge, of oil.
 [Struck out->] STUDY OF SPILL PREVENTION IN RESTRICTED WATERS [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 107. The President shall conduct a study, and report
 the results of such study to the Congress not later than one year after the
 enactment of this Act, on improved methods for the prevention of discharges
 of oil in restricted waters and similar portions of bays, estuaries, and near
 shore waters. In the conduct of such study, the President shall examine the
 causes of recent major discharges of oil from vessels in the Delaware River,
 and consider modifications in tanker construction and operation standards,
 crew training and locale familiarization requirements, improvements in
 navigation aids, and other approaches with the potential for reducing the
 likelihood for discharges of oil in such waters. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITY [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 108. Section 311(c)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution
 Control Act is amended by striking all that follows after `1976)', and
 inserting the following in lieu thereof: `the President shall remove or
 arrange for the removal of such oil or substance at any time. The President
 is not required to remove or arrange for removal of such oil or substance
 only if the President finds that such removal will be done properly and
 promptly by the owner or operator of the vessel, onshore facility, or
 offshore facility, from which the discharge occurs. Such owner or operator
 must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the President that such owner or
 operator has the financial resources and technical capability necessary to
 effectively remove the oil or hazardous substance.' [<-Struck out]
TITLE II--OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RESPONSE
FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITY
  SEC. 201. (a) Section 311(c)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
  is amended by striking all that follows after `1976)', and inserting the
  following in lieu thereof: `the President shall remove or arrange for the
  removal of such oil or substance at any time, unless the President determines
  such removal will be done properly and promptly by a State or by the owner
  or operator of the vessel, onshore facility, or offshore facility, from
  which the discharge occurs. Such owner or operator must demonstrate to the
  satisfaction of the President that such owner or operator has the financial
  resources and technical capability necessary to effectively remove the oil
  or hazardous substance. The President is authorized to order such owner
  or operator to remove or arrange to remove the oil or hazardous substance
  and to continue such removal actions until the President determines that
  such actions are no longer necessary to minimize or mitigate damage to the
  public health or welfare, including, but not limited to, fish, shellfish,
  wildlife, and public and private property, shorelines, and beaches.'
  (b) Section 311(d) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
  U.S.C. 1321(d)) is amended by striking out that section and inserting in
  lieu thereof the following:
  `(d) SUBSTANTIAL THREAT OF POLLUTION HAZARD- Notwithstanding subsection
  (c)(1) of this section, whenever a marine disaster in or upon the navigable
  waters of the United States has created a substantial threat of a pollution
  hazard to the public health or welfare of the United States, including,
  but not limited to, fish, shellfish, wildlife, and the public and private
  shorelines and beaches of the United States, because of a discharge, or
  an imminent discharge, of oil, or of a hazardous substance, from a vessel
  or a facility--
  `(1) the President shall, acting through the person designated under
  subsection (c)(2)(L) of this section, coordinate and direct all public
  and private efforts directed at the removal or elimination of such threat,
  including direction of the activities of the strike force established by
  subsection (c)(2)(C) of this section and the regional oil spill response
  teams established by subsection (s) of this section;
  `(2) the President may summarily remove, and, if necessary, destroy such
  vessel by whatever means are available;
  `(3) the President may, if necessary to ensure prompt and proper removal
  or elimination of such threat, or removal or destruction of such vessel,
  take any action to achieve such ends without regard to any provisions
  of law governing competitive bidding, the employment of personnel or the
  expenditure of appropriate funds;
  `(4) each Federal agency, State, owner or operator of a vessel or a facility,
  or other person shall participate in any efforts under this subsection
  as required under the National Contingency Plan and as directed by the
  person designated under subsection (c)(2)(L) of this section, and may be
  reimbursed for the costs incurred from the Fund established under the Oil
  Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of 1989 to the extent authorized
  by that Act and the National Contingency Plan;
  `(5) any costs incurred by the United States under this subsection or under
  the Intervention on the High Seas Act or the convention defined in section
  2(3) thereof shall be a cost incurred by the United States Government for the
  purposes of subsection (f) in the removal of oil or hazardous substance; and
  `(6) the person designated under subsection (c)(2)(L) of this section shall
  consult with the trustees for natural resources designated under the Oil
  Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of 1989 concerning actions taken
  pursaunt to this subsection.'.
NATIONAL CONTINGENCY PLAN
  SEC. 202. Section 311(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
  U.S.C. 1321 (c)) is amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the
  following new paragraph in lieu thereof:
  `(2) NATIONAL CONTINGENCY PLAN- Within sixty days after the effective
  date of this section, the President shall prepare and publish a National
  Contingency Plan (hereinafter referred to in this paragraph as the `Plan')
  for removal of oil and hazardous substances, pursuant to this subsection
  and subsection (d) of this section. Such plan shall provide for efficient,
  coordinated, and effective action to minimize damage from oil and hazardous
  substance discharges, including containment, dispersal, and removal of
  oil and hazardous substances, and shall include, but not be limited to--
  `(A) assignment of duties and responsibilities among Federal departments
  and agencies in coordination with State and local agencies, including,
  but not limited to, water pollution control, port authorities, conservation
  and trusteeship of natural resources;
  `(B) identification, procurement, maintenance, and storage of equipment
  and supplies;
  `(C) establishment or designation of a strike force, in addition to regional
  oil spill response teams consisting of personnel who shall be trained,
  prepared, and available to provide necessary services to carry out the Plan,
  including the establishment at major ports as provided under subsection
  (s) of this section (regional oil spill response teams), to be determined
  by the President, of emergency task forces of trained personnel, adequate
  oil and hazardous substance pollution control equipment and material, and a
  detailed oil and hazardous substance pollution prevention and removal plan,
  including measures to protect and restore fisheries and wildlife;
  `(D) a system of surveillance and notice designed to insure earliest possible
  notice of discharges of oil and hazardous substances and imminent threats
  of such discharges to the appropriate State and Federal agencies;
  `(E) establishment of a national center to provide coordination and direction
  for operations by strike forces, the regional oil spill response teams
  required under subsection (s) of this section, and others in carrying out
  the Plan;
  `(F) procedures and techniques to be employed in identifying, containing,
  dispersing, and removing oil and hazardous substances;
  `(G) a schedule, prepared in cooperation with the States, identifying
  dispersants, chemicals and other spill mitigating devices, if any, that
  may be used in carrying out the Plan; the waters in which such dispersants,
  chemicals and other spill mitigating devices may be used; and the quantities
  of such dispersant, chemical or other spill mitigating devices which can
  be used safely in such waters, which schedule shall provide in the case of
  any dispersant, chemicals and other spill mitigating devices, or waters
  not specifically identified in such schedule that the President, or his
  delegate, may, on a case-by-case basis, identify the dispersants, chemicals
  and other spill mitigating devices which may be used, the waters in which
  they may be used, and the quantities which can be used safely in such waters;
  `(H) a system whereby the State or States affected by a discharge of oil
  or hazardous substance may act where necessary to remove such discharge
  and such State or States may be reimbursed in the case of any discharges
  of oil from a vessel or facility, for the reasonable costs incurred in
  such removal from the Fund established under the Oil Spill Liability and
  Compensation Act of 1989;
  `(I) procedures to provide equipment that is adequate to minimize damage
  resulting from a discharge of oil or a hazardous substance and that is
  appropriate for the environmental features of the area for which it is
  provided, and to require that all such equipment be certified at least
  once every three years by the Secretary of the department in which the
  Coast Guard is operating;
  `(J) provisions to assure that the Federal On Scene Coordinator designated
  pursuant to the Plan takes steps within a minimum amount of time to assume
  control of a response to a spill or discharge, resolve State and local
  concerns, and implement approved procedures promptly;
  `(K) development and maintenance of a periodically updated international
  inventory of equipment and personnel to remove discharges of oil and
  hazardous substances, available to the public, which shall, to the
  extent of available information list all equipment, whether in private or
  governmental custody, capable of containing or cleaning up discharges of
  oil and hazardous substances and specify for such equipment the nature,
  type, age, manufacturer, precise current location, name of current owner,
  name and phone number of the individual with authority over its disposition,
  and list all contractors and other persons qualified in the containment
  or cleanup of oil and hazardous substance discharges and specify for each
  such contractor or other persons the number of available personnel and their
  skills, the nature and capabilities of available equipment, the name of the
  principal officer, the name and phone number of an individual with emergency
  response authority, and such other information as the President may require;
  `(L) designation of a person who shall be primarily responsible for carrying
  out the President's authority under this subsection, and who shall direct
  or coordinate all Federal, State, and private efforts under subsection
  (d) of this section to prepare for and respond to a substantial threat
  of a pollution hazard to the public health and welfare, including any
  such efforts of a strike force established under subparagraph (C) of this
  paragraph and of the regional oil spill response teams established under
  subsection (s) of this section;
  `(M) establishment of criteria and procedures to ensure prompt and
  proper identification of, and response to, marine disasters that create a
  substantial threat of a pollution hazard to the public health or welfare
  of the United States, as required under subsection (d) of this section;
  `(N) establishment of standards and procedures which comply with the
  provisions of the Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of 1989 for
  reimbursement from the Fund established under that Act of removal costs
  incurred under this subsection and subsection (d) of this section by the
  United States or other persons; and
  `(O) establishment of procedures to notify and inform all entities that
  may be involved in removal of discharges of oil and hazardous substances,
  including Federal agencies, States, and other persons, of each such
  entity's duties and rights and of the procedures each such entity shall
  follow under this subsection and subsection (d) of this section.
The President may, from time to time, as he deems advisable revise or
otherwise amend the National Contingency Plan. After publication of the
National Contingency Plan, the removal of oil and hazardous substances
and actions to minimize damage from oil and hazardous substance discharges
shall, to the greatest extent possible, be in accordance with the National
Contingency Plan.'.
REGIONAL OIL SPILL RESPONSE TEAMS
  SEC. 203. Section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
  U.S.C. 1321) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
  subsection:
  `(s)(1) REGIONAL OIL SPILL RESPONSE TEAMS- The President shall revise the
  National Contingency Plan prepared and published pursuant to subsection
  (c)(2) of this section to require establishment, operation, and maintenance
  of an oil spill response team, including use of existing public or private
  personnel and equipment, for each region that the President determines is
  in need of such a response team, including, but not limited to, the regions
  of Alaska, the Pacific Northwest, California, the Gulf of Mexico, and the
  south Atlantic coast, New England, the mid-Atlantic coast, and for inland
  waters that is capable of promptly and properly removing oil from a worst
  case discharge, defined as a discharge, in adverse weather conditions, of
  the largest vessel which is known to transit a given region. Such response
  teams shall--
  `(A) consist of time, dedicated and trained personnel, fully operational
  vessels and equipment, or have immediate access to use of such personnel,
  vessels, and equipment, for spill containment, recovery, dispersal,
  shoreline cleanup and protection and rescue of fisheries and wildlife;
  `(B) have continuous twenty-four-hour communications capability to assure
  rapid notification and coordination with the national center and strike
  forces established under subsection (c)(2) of this section, State and local
  officials, and other appropriate entities and ensure that response teams,
  and all equipment and vessels required for those response teams, are properly
  and immediately in use upon receiving notice of any discharge of oil;
  `(C) conduct training and periodic drills, without prior notice, to
  demonstrate their continued effectiveness and readiness;
  `(D) work with State and local officials to enhance the contingency
  planning of such officials and assure pre-planning of joint response
  efforts, including appropriate procedures for mechanical recovery,
  dispersal, shoreline cleanup and protection and rescue of fisheries and
  wildlife. Response teams also shall work with State and local officials
  to obtain agreements for use of dispersants and other mitigating devices
  as part of regional contingency plans; and
  `(E) establish and maintain an inventory of personnel and equipment, in
  coordination with the international inventory developed under the National
  Contingency Plan, to support spill response activities, consisting at a
  minimum of locations, status, and availability of spill response resources
  and related information.
  `(2) FUNDING- Amounts in the Fund established under the Oil Pollution
  Liability and Compensation Act of 1989 shall be available, without fiscal
  year limitation, to establish and maintain the oil spill response teams
  required under this paragraph.'.
OIL SPILL CONTINGENCY PLAN DEVELOPMENT AND APPROVAL
  SEC. 204. Section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
  U.S.C. 1321) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
  subsection:
  `(t)(1) IN GENERAL- This subsection applies to (1) operators of all tank
  vessels (other than public vessels) which carry oil in bulk as cargo or
  cargo residue or transfer oil in any port located in or upon the navigable
  waters of the United States and the exclusive economic zone and (2)
  operators of oil producing, refining, or transportation facilities that
  due to their location, reasonably could be expected to spill oil into or
  upon navigable waters of the United States, adjoining shorelines or the
  waters of the exclusive economic zone.
  `(2) OIL SPILL CONTINGENCY PLAN DEVELOPMENT- The President shall, within one
  year after enactment of the Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation Act
  of 1989, issue a final rule requiring owners and operators of vessels and
  facilities subject to this paragraph to prepare and submit a contingency
  plan for the prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills from their
  vessels or facilities and for the protection of fisheries and wildlife
  from such spills. Contingency plans required under this subsection shall--
  `(A) provide full details of the method of response to a worst case oil
  spill, defined as a discharge, in adverse weather conditions, of the
  largest vessel which is known to transit the area covered by the plan;
  `(B) if implemented, be capable, in terms of personnel, materials and
  equipment, of promptly and properly removing any oil spill and minimizing
  any damage to the environment, to the maximum extent practicable;
  `(C) provide a clear and precise, detailed description of how the
  plan relates to and is integrated into other approved contingency plans
  prepared by cooperatives, ports, regional entities and States, and regional
  oil spill response teams, strike forces and Federal agencies under the
  National Contingency Plan prepared and published pursuant to subsection
  (c)(2) of this section;
  `(D) provide procedures for early detection of oil spills and timely
  notification of such spills to the Federal On Scene Coordinator, regional
  oil spill response teams and strike forces under the National Contingency
  Plan, prepared and published pursuant to subsection (c)(2) of this section,
  and other authorities;
  `(E) state the number, types, operational capacity and availability of
  the oil spill containment equipment to be provided to implement the plan;
  `(F) state the number, training preparedness and fitness of all full-time,
  dedicated, pre-positioned personnel assigned to direct and implement
  the plan;
  `(G) incorporate periodic training and drill programs to assure that
  personnel and equipment to be provided under the plan are in a state of
  operational readiness at all times;
  `(H) state the means of protecting and mitigating effects on the
  environment, including fish, marine mammals and other wildlife, and ensure
  that implementation of the plan does not pose unacceptable risks to the
  public or the environment;
  `(I) provide a detailed description of equipment and procedures to be used
  by the crew of each vessel concerned to minimize damage, stop any spilling
  from the vessel, contain and cleanup the spilled oil promptly and properly,
  and determine if and when additional equipment and personnel are needed;
  `(J) provide arrangements for the pre-positioning of oil spill containment
  and cleanup equipment and trained personnel at strategic locations from
  which they can be deployed to the spill site to promptly and properly
  remove spilled oil;
  `(K) provide arrangements for enlisting the use of additional personnel,
  such as commercial fishermen and other volunteers, to implement the plan; and
  `(L) provide for disposal of recovered spilled oil in accordance with
  Federal, State, and local laws; and
  `(M) describe how implementation of the plan will be coordinated with removal
  efforts by regional oil spill response teams, including the extent to which
  dedicated and trained personnel, fully operational vessels, and equipment
  will be made available to such teams.
  `(3) INSPECTION- Subsequent to issuance of the final rule described in
  paragraph (2) of this subsection, the President shall provide for regular
  inspection of vessels, equipment, and facilities to ensure compliance with
  the requirements of the final rule.
  `(4) CONTINGENCY PLAN APPROVAL- In approving the contingency plans required
  by this subsection, the President shall consider--
  `(A) the adequacy of containment and cleanup equipment, personnel,
  communications equipment, response time and logistical arrangements for
  coordination and implementation of response efforts to promptly and properly
  remove oil spills and protect the environment;
  `(B) the nature and amount of vessel traffic within the area covered by
  the plan;
  `(C) the volume and type of oil being transported within the area covered
  by the plan;
  `(D) the existence of navigational hazards within the area covered by
  the plan;
  `(E) any history of prior discharges of oil within the area covered by
  the plan;
  `(F) the value and sensitivity of fisheries and wildlife and other natural
  resources within the area covered by the plan;
  `(G) the comments of potentially affected third parties; and
  `(H) relevant information on previous discharges contained in On Scene
  Coordinator reports prepared by the Coast Guard.
No plan shall be approved unless the President determines that such plan meets
the requirements of this subsection and subsection (s) of this section and
that such plan, if implemented, is capable, in terms of personnel, materials
and equipment, of promptly and properly removing any oil spill and minimizing
any damage to the environment to the maximum extent practicable.
  `(5) NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES- An owner or operator of a vessel or facility
  shall immediately notify the President, in writing, of any significant
  change in any factor set forth under paragraph (5) of this subsection,
  in order for the President to require changes, if needed, in the plan
  submitted by such owner or operator.
  `(6) STATE APPROVAL OF PLANS- The President may enter into a cooperative
  agreement with the chief executive officer of any State to delegate to
  that State the authority to approve contingency plans consistent with the
  requirements of this subsection and subsection (t) of this section.
  `(7) PROHIBITION- It shall be unlawful to operate a vessel in or upon the
  navigable waters of the United States and the exclusive economic zone or
  to operate a facility that is not in compliance with a contingency plan
  submitted and approved under this subsection.
  `(8) LEGAL EFFECT OF CONTINGENCY PLANS- The provisions of contingency plans
  submitted to and approved by the President pursuant to this subsection
  shall be deemed to be legally binding upon those persons submitting them
  to the President. The district courts of the United States shall have
  jurisdiction to restrain a violation of, compel specific performance of,
  or otherwise enforce such plans upon application by the President or by
  any State to which the President has delegated authority for approval of
  contingency plans under paragraph (7) of this subsection. The President,
  or any State to which the President has delegated authority for approval
  of contingency plans under paragraph (6) of this subsection, may issue an
  order requiring compliance with any contingency plan.
  `(9) PUBLIC AWARENESS AND PRACTICE DRILLS- The President shall publish
  annually an up-to-date description of the contingency plans for oil spills
  submitted and approved pursaunt to this subsection and an inventory of
  equipment available for responding to such spills. The President shall
  require practice drills under the contingency plans approved pursuant to
  this subsection not less than twice each year. The President shall review
  and publish a report on such drills, including an assessment of actual
  response time and available equipment and personnel compared to those
  listed in the contingency plans, and requirements, if any, for changes
  in the plans or their implementation. The President shall require such
  additional drills and changes in arrangements for implementing approved
  plans as are necessary to ensure their effective implementation.
  `(10) Each contingency plan submitted and approved pursuant to this
  subsection shall be kept on file and readily accessible by the oil spill
  response teams and other officials designated under the National Contingency
  Plan, relevant State and local officials, affected vessels or facilities
  and the owner or operator involved.
  `(11) Any owner or operator of a vessel or an onshore facility or an offshore
  facility and any other person subject to any regulation or any order of the
  President isued under this subsection who fails to refuses to comply with
  the provisions of this subsection, or any regulations issued thereunder,
  shall be liable to a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each such
  violation. Each violation shall be a separate offense. The President may
  assess and compromise such penalty. No penalty shall be assessed until the
  owner, operator, or other person charged shall have been given notice and
  an opportunity for a hearing on such charge. In determining the amount
  of the penalty, or the amount agreed upon in compromise, the gravity of
  the violation, and the demonstrated good faith of the owner, operator,
  of other person charged in attempting to achieve rapid compliance after
  notification of a violation, shall be considered by the President.'.
OIL SPILL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
  SEC. 205. Section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
  U.S.C. 1321) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
  subsection:
  `(u)(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The President shall establish a research
  and development program on scientific and operational aspects of spill
  prevention, response, containment and recovery which shall, at a minimum,
  give priority to on-water oil recovery and treatment; prevention of loss
  from and away from vessels, including the use of values for such purposes
  and onshore and offshore facilities; prevention and mitigation of shoreline
  impacts; fisheries and wildlife protection, mitigation and recovery;
  and protection of public health and safety.
  `(2) In undertaking such a program, the President shall coordinate research
  and development efforts with other nations, industry, academia, and private
  research and development groups.
  `(3) FUNDING- Amounts in the Fund established under the Oil Pollution
  Liability and Compensation Act of 1989 shall be available, without fiscal
  year limitation, to establish and maintain the research and development
  program required under this paragraph not to exceed $25,000,000 annually.'.
PENALTIES
  SEC. 206. (a) INSPECTION AND ENTRY- Section 308 of the Federal Water
  Pollution Control Act is amended as follows:
  (1) Subsection (a) is amended by--
  (A) adding a new clause (4) providing:
  `(4) obtaining information regarding the identification, nature and quantity
  of materials on a vessel or at a facility,';
  (B) adding a new clause (5) providing:
  `(5) obtaining information regarding the source or nature or extent of a
  discharge or threatened discharge of oil or other pollutants from a vessel
  or a facility,';
  (C) adding a new clause (6) providing:
  `(6) obtaining information relating to the ability of a person to pay for
  or to perform cleanup or other remedial action,';
  (D) renumbering existing clause (4) as clause (7);
  (E) in clause (A), inserting `, vessel, or facility' after the words
  `point source';
  (F) in clause (B)--
  (i) replacing subclause (i) with the following:
  `(i) shall have a right of entry to, upon, or through any premises, vessel,
  or facility in which an effluent source is located or from which there is
  a discharge or threat of discharge of oil or other pollutants into waters
  of the United States, or in which any records required to be maintained
  under clause (A) of this subsection are located,';
  (ii) in subclause (ii), striking the words `which the owner or operator of
  such source is required to sample under such clause' and insert in lieu
  thereof the words `or discharge or threatened discharges of oil or other
  pollutants,'; and
 (iii) adding a new subclause (iii) providing:
  `(iii) may at reasonable times enter any premises, vessel, or facility
  where oil or other pollutants are stored to determine the need for response
  action, to effectuate response action, or to obtain samples of oil or
  other pollutants.'.
  (b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES- (1) Section 309(c) of the Clean Water Act (33
  U.S.C. 1319(c)) is amended by inserting immediately after `308,' each time
  it appears therein the following: `311,'.
  (2) Section 309(c)(4) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act is amended
  by inserting the words `omits material information or' after the word
  `knowingly'.
  (c) ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES- (1) Subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of
  subsection (g) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1319(g)(1)(A)) is amended
  by inserting immediately after `the Administrator' the first time it appears
  therein the following: `the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast
  Guard is operating'.
  (2) Subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of the Clean Water
  Act (33 U.S.C. 1319(g)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting immediately after
  `308' the following: `311'.
  (3) Paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of the Clean Water Act (33
  U.S.C. 1319(g)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting immediately after `the
  Administrator' the third time it appears therein the following: `, the
  Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, or the'.
  (4) Subparagraph (A) of paragraph (6) of subsection (g) of section 309 of
  the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1319(g)(6)(A)) is amended by inserting a
  comma immediately before the period at the end thereof, and the following:
  `except that any action under a State law shall not affect or limit the
  authority of the Administrator or the Secretary of the Department under
  which the Coast Guard is operating with respect to discharges of oil or
  hazardous substances under this subsection or section 311 of this Act'.
  (d) CIVIL PENALTIES- (1) Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (6) of
  subsection (b) of section 311 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(b)(6)
  (A) and (B) are deleted and the following inserted in lieu thereof--
  `(A) Any owner, operator, or person in charge of any onshore facility,
  offshore facility, or vessel from which oil or a hazardous substance is
  discharged in violation of paragraph (3) (i) or (ii) of this subsection
  shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount up to $25,000 per day
  of violation or up to $1,000 per barrel of oil or hazardous substances
  discharged in violation of paragraph (3) of this subsection, whichever
  is greater.
  `(B) In determining the amount of the civil penalty under this paragraph and
  paragraph (5), the court shall consider the seriousness of the violation
  or violations, the economic benefit to the violator, if any, resulting
  from the violation, any history of prior violations, the nature, extent,
  and degree of success of any efforts to minimize or mitigate the effects
  of such discharge, the economic impact of the penalty on the violator,
  and any other matters as justice may require.
  `(C) Where the United States can show that a discharge in violation of
  paragraph (3)(i) or (ii) of this subsection was the result of willful
  negligence, willful misconduct or a violation of applicable safety,
  construction, or operating regulations, the penalty pursuant to paragraph
  (A) of this subsection shall be no less than $250,000.00.
  (D) The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating
  or the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may request
  the Attorney General to commence a civil action to recover civil penalties
  against any person in the district court in the district in which such
  person is located, resides, or is doing business, and any such court shall
  have jurisdiction to assess such civil penalty.'.
  (2) Subparagraph (C) of paragraph (6) of subsection (b) of section 311 is
  redesignated as subparagraph `(E)'.
  (3) Subparagraph (D) of paragraph (6) of subsection (b) of section 311 is
  redesignated as subparagraph (F).
  (4) Subparagraph (E) of paragraph (6) of subsection (b) of section 311 of
  the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(b)(6)(E)) is repealed.
  (e) ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS- Paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of section 311
  of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(b)(4)) is amended by inserting
  immediately after `public health or welfare' the following: `or the
  environment'.
  (f) REPORTING- Paragraph (5) of subsection (b) of section 311 of the Clean
  Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(b)(5)) is amended by deleting all after the first
  sentence and inserting the following in lieu thereof: `any such person (A)
  in charge of a vessel from which oil or a hazardous substance is discharged,
  in violation of paragraph (3)(i) of this subsection or (B) in charge of a
  vessel from which oil or a hazardous substance is discharged in violation
  of paragraph (3)(ii) of this subsection and who is otherwise subject to the
  jurisdiction of the United States at the time of the discharge, or (C) in
  charge of an onshore facility or an offshore facility, who fails to notify
  immediately such agency of such discharge shall, upon conviction, be fined
  in accordance with the applicable provisions of title 18 or imprisoned for
  not more than three years (or not more than five years in the case of a
  second or subsequent conviction), or both. Notification received pursuant
  to this paragraph or information that could not have been obtained but
  for the exploitation of such notification shall not be used against any
  natural person who gives such notification in any criminal case, except
  a prosecution for perjury or for giving a false statement. In addition,
  any such person who knowingly fails to provide the notice required by this
  subsection shall not be entitled to any of the defenses to liability set
  out the Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of 1989.'.
  (g) USE OF PENALTIES- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, penalties
  paid pursuant to section 309(c) or 309(g) of the Federal Water Pollution
  Control Act as a result of violations of section 311(b) and penalties paid
  pursuant to section 311(b)(6) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
  shall be deposited in Fund established under the Oil Pollution Liability
  and Compensation Act of 1989.
STUDY OF SPILL PREVENTION IN RESTRICTED WATERS
  SEC. 207. (a) STUDY- The President shall conduct a study, and report the
  results of such study to the Congress not later than one year after the
  enactment of this Act, on improved methods for the prevention of discharges
  of oil in restricted waters and similar portions of bays, estuaries,
  and near shore waters. In the conduct of the study, the President shall
  examine the causes of recent major discharges of oil from vessels in
  the Delaware River, and consider modifications in tanker construction and
  operation standards, crew training and locale familiarization requirements,
  improvements in navigation aids, and other approaches with the potential
  for reducing the likelihood for discharges of oil in such waters.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Section 311(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
  Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(3) The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of the
  Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall submit to the
  Congress within one year of the date of enactment of this paragraph and
  biennially thereafter a report assessing the adequacy of provisions of
  the National Contingency Plan, and any regulations pursuant to subsection
  (j), concerning discharges of oil. The report shall include a summary of
  discharges of oil prohibited pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section,
  an assessment of the actions taken in response to such discharges, and any
  recommendations for needed improvements to existing statutes, regulations,
  or programs for preventing and responding to oil spills.'.
 [Struck out->] TITLE II  [<-Struck out] TITLE III--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
TRANS-ALASKA PIPELINE FUND
  SEC. [Struck out->]  201.  [<-Struck out] 301. (a) Section 204(b) of the
  Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act is amended, in the first sentence--
  (1) by inserting after the words `any area' the words `in the State
  of Alaska';
  (2) by inserting after the words `any activities' the words `related to
  the Trans-Alaska Oil Pipeline'; and
  (3) by inserting at the end of the subsection the following new sentence:
  `This subsection shall not apply to removal costs covered by the Oil Spill
  Liability and Compensation Act of  [Struck out->] 1988.  [<-Struck out]
  1989.'.
  Subsection (c) of section 204 of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act
  is repealed. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline Liability Fund is abolished. All
  assets of that fund, as of the effective date of this section, shall
  be tranferred to the Fund established under this Act. The Oil Spill
  Compensation Fund shall assure all liability incurred by the Trans-Alaska
  Pipeline Liability Fund under the terms of subsection (c) of section 204
  of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act.
  (c) Trustees and former trustees of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Liability
  Fund who were designated by the Secretary of the Interior shall not be
  subject to any liability incurred by that Fund or by the present and
  past officers and trustees of that Fund, other than liability for gross
  negligence or willful misconduct.
INTERVENTION ON THE HIGH SEAS ACT
  SEC.  [Struck out->] 202. [<-Struck out]  302. Section 17 of the Intervention
  on the High Seas Act is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 17. The Fund established under the Oil Spill Liability and Compensation
  Act of  [Struck out->] 1988  [<-Struck out] 1989 shall be available to
  the Secretary for actions taken under sections 5 and 7 of this Act.'.
CLEAN WATER ACT
  SEC. [Struck out->]  203.  [<-Struck out] 303. Section 311 of the Clean
  Water Act is amended as follows:
 [Struck out->]   (a) Subparagraph (H) of paragraph (2) of subsection (c)
 amended by striking out `from the fund established under subsection (k)
 of this section for the reasonable costs incurred in such removal' and
 inserting in lieu thereof the following: `in the case of any discharges
 of oil from a vessel or facility, for the reasonable costs incurred in
 such removal from the Fund established under the Oil Spill Liability and
 Compensation Act of 1988'. [<-Struck out]
   [Struck out->] (b)  [<-Struck out] (a) Subsection (d) is amended by
   striking out the last sentence.
   [Struck out->] (c)(1)  [<-Struck out] (b)(1) Subsections (f), (g), and
   (i) of section 311 of the Clean Water Act shall not apply with respect to
   any discharge of oil resulting in removal costs for which liability is
   established under section 102 of this Act, except that natural resource
   damage assessment regulations, promulgated under section 311(f) of the
   Clean Water Act shall apply to any such discharges pending the entry into
   force of such regulations promulgated under section 102 of this Act.
  (2) Paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (f) are amended by striking out
  `under subsection (c) for the removal of such oil or substance by the United
  States Government' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
  `under subsection (c) for the removal of such oil or substance by the United
  States Government and for payments made pursuant to section 103(a)(4)(A)
  of the Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of  [Struck out->]
  1988  [<-Struck out] 1989'.
   [Struck out->] (d)  [<-Struck out] (c) Subsection (i) is amended by
   striking out `(1)' after `(i)' and striking out paragraphs (2) and (3).
   [Struck out->] (e)  [<-Struck out] (d) Subsection (k) is repealed. Any
   amounts remaining in the revolving fund established under that subsection
   shall be deposited in the Fund established under this Act. The Oil Spill
   Compensation Fund shall assume all liability incurred by the revolving
   fund established under section 311(k) of the Clean Water Act.
   [Struck out->] (f)  [<-Struck out] (e) Subsection (l) is amended by
   striking out the second sentence.
   [Struck out->] (g)  [<-Struck out] (f) Subsection (p) is repealed.
   [Struck out->] (h)  [<-Struck out] (g) Section 311 is amended by adding
   at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(s) The Oil Spill Compensation Fund, established under the Oil Pollution
  Liability and Compensation Act of  [Struck out->] 1988,  [<-Struck out]
  1989, shall be available to carry out subsections (c), (d), (i), and
  (l) as those subsections apply to discharges, or substantial threats of
  discharges, of oil. Any amounts received by the United States under this
  section shall be deposited in such Oil Spill Compensation Fund.'.
DEEPWATER PORT ACT
  SEC.  [Struck out->] 204. [<-Struck out]  304. The Deepwater Port Act of
  1974 is amended as follows:
  (a) In section 4(c)(1) strike `section 18(l) of this Act;' and insert in
  lieu thereof `section 104 of the Oil Spill Liability and Compensation Act of
  [Struck out->] 1988,  [<-Struck out] 1989,'.
  (b) Subsections (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (l), (n), and
  paragraph (1) of subsection (m) of section 18 are deleted.
  (c) Paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of section 18 is amended by striking
  `Deepwater Port Liability Fund established pursuant to subsection (f)
  of this section', and inserting in lieu thereof `fund established under
  the Oil Spill Liability and Compensation Act of  [Struck out->] 1988
  [<-Struck out] 1989'.
  (d) Subsections (c), (k), and (m) of section 18 are redesignated (b),
  (c), and (d) respectively, and paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection
  (m) are redesignated (1), (2), and (3), respectively.
  (e) Any amounts remaining in the Deepwater Port Liability Fund, established
  under section 18(f) of the Deepwater Port Act of 1974, shall be deposited
  in the Fund established under this Act. The Oil Spill Compensation Fund
  shall assume all liability incurred by the Deepwater Port Liability Fund.
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT AMENDMENTS
  SEC.  [Struck out->] 205. [<-Struck out]  305. Title III of the Outer
  Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1978 is hereby repealed. Any
  amounts remaining in the Offshore Oil Pollution Compensation Fund established
  under section 302 of that title shall be deposited in the Fund established
  under this Act. The Oil Spill Compensation Fund shall assume all liability
  incurred by the Offshore Oil Pollution Compensation Fund.
 [Struck out->] NOTICE TO STATE; INCREASED PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO REPORT
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   SEC. 206. (a) The first sentence of section 311(b)(5)
 of the Clean Water Act is amended by inserting after `of the United States
 Government' the phrase `and of any affected State'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) The second sentence of section 311(b)(5) of the Clean
 Water Act is amended by striking `fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned
 for not more than one year, or both' and inserting in lieu thereof `fined in
 accordance with the applicable provisions of title 18 of the United States
 Code, or imprisoned for not more than three years (or not more than five years
 in the case of a second or subsequent conviction), or both'. [<-Struck out]
S 686 RS----2
S 686 RS----3
S 686 RS----4
S 686 RS----5
S 686 RS----6riking `Deepwater Port Liability Fund established pursuant to sub