Calendar No. 321
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 640
[Report No. 102-215]
A BILL
To regulate interstate commerce by providing for a uniform product liability
law, and for other purposes.
November 14 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 13), 1991
Reported without amendment
S 640 RS
Calendar No. 321
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 640
[Report No. 102-215]
To regulate interstate commerce by providing for a uniform product liability
law, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
March 13 (legislative day, FEBRUARY 6), 1991
Mr. KASTEN (for himself, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. DANFORTH, Mr. LIEBERMAN,
Mr. GORTON, Mr. RIEGLE, Mr. PRESSLER, Mr. PELL, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. GLENN,
Mr. LOTT, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. BURNS, Mrs. KASSEBAUM, Mr. DOLE, Mr. HELMS,
Mr. LUGAR, Mr. COATS, Mr. CHAFEE, Mr. NICKLES, Mr. HATCH, Mr. BOND, Mr. SYMMS,
Mr. WALLOP, Mr. MACK, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. HEINZ, Mr. GARN, Mr. CRAIG,
Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. BOREN, Mr. BROWN, Mr. SMITH, Mr. DODD, Mr. SEYMOUR,
Mr. RUDMAN, and Mr. GRAMM) introduced the following bill; which was read
twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
November 14 (legislative day, NOVEMBER 13), 1991
Reported by Mr. HOLLINGS, without amendment
A BILL
To regulate interstate commerce by providing for a uniform product liability
law, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE--I
--Page
Sec. 101. Short title
--2
Sec. 102. Definitions
--2
Sec. 103. Preemption
--7
Sec. 104. Jurisdiction of Federal courts
--9
Sec. 105. Effective date
--9
TITLE--II
Sec. 201. Expedited product liability settlements
--10
Sec. 202. Alternative dispute resolution procedures
--12
TITLE--III
Sec. 301. Civil actions
--13
Sec. 302. Uniform standards of product seller liability
--13
Sec. 303. Uniform standards for award of punitive damages
--16
Sec. 304. Uniform time limitations on liability
--20
Sec. 305. Uniform standards for offset of workers' compensation benefits
--22
Sec. 306. Several liability for noneconomic damages
--26
Sec. 307. Defenses involving intoxicating alcohol or drugs
--27
TITLE I
SHORT TITLE
  SEC. 101. This Act May be cited as the `Product Liability Fairness Act'.
DEFINITIONS
  SEC. 102. As used in this Act, the term--
  (1) `claimant' means any person who brings a civil action pursuant to this
  Act, and any person on whose behalf such an action is brought; if such an
  action is brought through or on behalf of an estate, the term includes the
  claimant's decedent, or if it is brought through or on behalf of a minor
  or incompetent, the term includes the claimant's parent or guardian;
  (2) `clear and convincing evidence' is that measure or degree of proof that
  will produce in the mind of the trier of fact a firm belief or conviction
  as to the truth of the allegations sought to be established; the level of
  proof required to satisfy such standard is more than that required under
  preponderance of the evidence, but less than that required for proof beyond
  a reasonable doubt;
  (3) `collateral benefits' means all benefits and advantages received or
  entitled to be received (regardless of any right any other person has or
  is entitled to assert for recoupment through subrogation, trust agreement,
  lien, or otherwise) by any claimant harmed by a product or by any other
  person as reimbursement of loss because of harm to person or property
  payable or required to be paid to the claimant, under--
  (A) any Federal law or the laws of any State (other than through a claim
  for breach of an obligation or duty); or
  (B) any life, health, or accident insurance or plan, wage or salary
  continuation plan, or disability income or replacement service insurance,
  or any benefit received or to be received as a result of participation in
  any pre-paid medical plan or health maintenance organization;
  (4) `commerce' means trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation (A)
  between a place in a State and any place outside of that State; or (B) which
  affects trade, traffic, commerce, or transportation described in clause (A);
  (5) `commercial loss' means economic injury, whether direct, incidental,
  or consequential, including property damage and damage to the product itself;
  (6) `economic loss' means any pecuniary loss resulting from harm which is
  allowed under State law;
  (7) `exercise of reasonable care' means conduct of a person of ordinary
  prudence and intelligence using the attention, precaution, and judgment that
  society expects of its members for the protection of their own interests
  and the interests of others;
  (8) `harm' means any harm recognized under the law of the State in which
  the civil action is maintained, other than loss or damage caused to a
  product itself, or commercial loss;
  (9) `manufacturer' means (A) any person who is engaged in a business to
  produce, create, make, or construct any product (or component part of a
  product) and who designs or formulates the product (or component part of the
  product) or has engaged another person to design or formulate the product
  (or component part of the product); (B) a product seller with respect to
  all aspects of a product (or component part of a product) which are created
  or affected when, before placing the product in the stream of commerce,
  the product seller produces, creates, makes, or constructs and designs
  or formulates, or has engaged another person to design or formulate, an
  aspect of a product (or component part of a product) made by another; or
  (C) any product seller not described in clause (B) which holds itself out
  as a manufacturer to the user of a product;
  (10) `noneconomic loss' means loss caused by a product other than economic
  loss or commercial loss;
  (11) `person' means any individual, corporation, company, association,
  firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or any other entity
  (including any governmental entity);
  (12) `preponderance of the evidence' is that measure or degree of proof
  which, by the weight, credit, and value of the aggregate evidence on either
  side, establishes that it is more probable than not that a fact occurred
  or did not occur;
  (13) `product' means any object, substance, mixture, or raw material
  in a gaseous, liquid, or solid state (A) which is capable of delivery
  itself or as an assembled whole, in a mixed or combined state, or as
  a component part or ingredient; (B) which is produced for introduction
  into trade or commerce; (C) which has intrinsic economic value; and (D)
  which is intended for sale or lease to persons for commercial or personal
  use; the term does not include human tissue, blood and blood products,
  or organs unless specifically recognized as a product pursuant to State law;
  (14) `product seller' means a person who, in the course of a business
  conducted for that purpose, sells, distributes, leases, prepares, blends,
  packages, labels, or otherwise is involved in placing a product in the
  stream of commerce, or who installs, repairs, or maintains the harm-causing
  aspect of a product; the term does not include--
  (A) a seller or lessor of real property;
  (B) a provider of professional services in any case in which the sale or
  use of a product is incidental to the transaction and the essence of the
  transaction is the furnishing of judgment, skill, or services; or
  (C) any person who--
  (i) acts in only a financial capacity with respect to the sale of a
  product; and
  (ii) leases a product under a lease arrangement in which the selection,
  possession, maintenance, and operation of the product are controlled by
  a person other than the lessor; and
  (15) `State' means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia,
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any other territory
  or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof.
PREEMPTION
  SEC. 103. (a) This Act governs any civil action brought against a
  manufacturer or product seller, on any theory, for harm caused by a
  product. A civil action brought against a manufacturer or product seller
  for loss or damage to a product itself or for commercial loss is not subject
  to this Act and shall be governed by applicable commercial or contract law.
  (b) This Act supersedes any State law regarding recovery for harm caused
  by a product only to the extent that this Act establishes a rule of law
  applicable to any such recovery. Any issue arising under this Act that
  is not governed by any such rule of law shall be governed by applicable
  State or Federal law.
  (c) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to--
  (1) waive or affect any defense of sovereign immunity asserted by any
  State under any provision of law;
  (2) supersede any Federal law, except the Federal Employees Compensation
  Act and the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act;
  (3) waive or affect any defense of sovereign immunity asserted by the
  United States;
  (4) affect the applicability of any provision of chapter 97 of title 28,
  United States Code;
  (5) preempt State choice-of-law rules with respect to claims brought by
  a foreign nation or a citizen of a foreign nation;
  (6) affect the right of any court to transfer venue or to apply the law of
  a foreign nation or to dismiss a claim of a foreign nation or of a citizen
  of a foreign nation on the ground of inconvenient forum; or
  (7) supersede any statutory or common law, including an action to abate
  a nuisance, that authorizes a State or person to institute an action for
  civil damages or civil penalties, cleanup costs, injunctions, restitution,
  cost recovery, punitive damages, or any other form of relief resulting
  from contamination or pollution of the environment, or the threat of such
  contamination or pollution.
  (d) As used in this section, `environment' has the meaning given to
  such term in section 101(8) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
  Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(8)).
  (e) This Act shall be construed and applied after consideration of
  its legislative history to promote uniformity of law in the various
  jurisdictions.
JURISDICTION OF FEDERAL COURTS
  SEC. 104. The district courts of the United States shall not have
  jurisdiction over any civil action pursuant to this Act, based on section
  1331 or 1337 of title 28, United States Code.
EFFECTIVE DATE
  SEC. 105. (a) This Act shall take effect on the date of its enactment
  and shall apply to all civil actions pursuant to this Act commenced on
  or after such date, including any action in which the harm or the conduct
  which caused the harm occurred before the effective date of this Act.
  (b) If any provision of this Act would shorten the period during which a
  manufacturer or product seller would otherwise be exposed to liability,
  the claimant may, notwithstanding the otherwise applicable time period,
  bring any civil action pursuant to this Act within one year after the
  effective date of this Act.
TITLE II
EXPEDITED PRODUCT LIABILITY SETTLEMENTS
  SEC. 201. (a) Any claimant may bring a civil action for damages against
  a person for harm caused by a product pursuant to applicable State law,
  except to the extent such law is superseded by this title.
  (b) Any claimant may, in addition to any claim for relief made in accordance
  with State law, include in such claimant's complaint an offer of settlement
  for a specific dollar amount.
  (c) The defendant may make an offer of settlement for a specific dollar
  amount within sixty days after service of the claimant's complaint or
  within the time permitted pursuant to State law for a responsive pleading,
  whichever is longer, except that if such pleading includes a motion to
  dismiss in accordance with applicable law, the defendant may tender such
  relief to the claimant within ten days after the court's determination
  regarding such motion.
  (d) In any case in which an offer of settlement is made pursuant to
  subsection (b) or (c) of this section, the court may, upon motion made
  prior to the expiration of the applicable period for response, enter an
  order extending such period. Any such order shall contain a schedule for
  discovery of evidence material to the issue of the appropriate amount of
  relief, and shall not extend such period for more than sixty days. Any
  such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting affidavit of the moving
  party setting forth the reasons why such extension is necessary to promote
  the interests of justice and stating that the information likely to be
  discovered is material, and is not, after reasonable inquiry, otherwise
  available to the moving party.
  (e) If the defendant, as offeree, does not accept the offer of settlement
  made by a claimant in accordance with subsection (b) of this section within
  the time permitted pursuant to State law for a responsive pleading or, if
  such pleading includes a motion to dismiss in accordance with applicable
  law, within thirty days after the court's determination regarding such
  motion, and a verdict is entered in such action equal to or greater than
  the specific dollar amount of such offer of settlement, the court shall
  enter judgment against the defendant and shall include in such judgment an
  amount for the claimant's reasonable attorney's fees and costs. Such fees
  shall be offset against any fees owed by the claimant to the claimant's
  attorney by reason of the verdict.
  (f) If the claimant, as offeree, does not accept the offer of settlement
  made by a defendant in accordance with subsection (c) of this section within
  thirty days after the date on which such offer is made and a verdict is
  entered in such action equal to or less than the specific dollar amount of
  such offer of settlement, the court shall reduce the amount of the verdict
  in such action by an amount equal to the reasonable attorney's fees and
  costs owed by the defendant to the defendant's attorney by reason of the
  verdict, except that the amount of such reduction shall not exceed that
  portion of the verdict which is allocable to noneconomic loss and economic
  loss for which the claimant has received or will receive collateral benefits.
  (g) For purposes of this section, attorney's fees shall be calculated on the
  basis of an hourly rate which should not exceed that which is considered
  acceptable in the community in which the attorney practices, considering
  the attorney's qualifications and experience and the complexity of the case.
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURES
  SEC. 202. (a) In lieu of or in addition to making an offer of settlement
  under section 201 of this title, a claimant or defendant may, within the time
  permitted for the making of such an offer under section 201 of this title,
  offer to proceed pursuant to any voluntary alternative dispute resolution
  procedure established or recognized under the law of the State in which
  the civil action for damages for harm caused by a product is brought or
  under the rules of the court in which such action is maintained.
  (b) If the offeree refuses to proceed pursuant to such alternative
  dispute resolution procedure and the court determines that such refusal
  was unreasonable or not in good faith, the court shall assess reasonable
  attorney's fees and costs against the offeree.
  (c) For the purposes of this section, there shall be created a rebuttable
  presumption that a refusal by an offeree to proceed pursuant to such
  alternative dispute resolution procedure was unreasonable or not in good
  faith, if a verdict is rendered in favor of the offeror.
TITLE III
CIVIL ACTIONS
  SEC. 301. A person seeking to recover for harm caused by a product may
  bring a civil action against the product's manufacturer or product seller
  pursuant to applicable State or Federal law, except to the extent such
  law is superseded by this Act.
UNIFORM STANDARDS OF PRODUCT SELLER LIABILITY
  SEC. 302. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 301 of this title,
  in any civil action for harm caused by a product, a product seller other
  than a manufacturer is liable to a claimant, only if the claimant establishes
  by a preponderance of the evidence that--
  (1)(A) the individual product unit which allegedly caused the harm complained
  of was sold by the defendant;
  (B) the product seller failed to exercise reasonable care with respect to
  the product; and
  (C) such failure to exercise reasonable care was a proximate cause of the
  claimant's harm; or
  (2)(A) the product seller made an express warranty, independent of any
  express warranty made by a manufacturer as to the same product;
  (B) the product failed to conform to the warranty; and
  (C) the failure of the product to conform to the warranty caused the
  claimant's harm.
  (b)(1) In determining whether a product seller is subject to liability under
  subsection (a)(1) of this section, the trier of fact may consider the effect
  of the conduct of the product seller with respect to the construction,
  inspection, or condition of the product, and any failure of the product
  seller to pass on adequate warnings or instructions from the product's
  manufacturer about the dangers and proper use of the product.
  (2) A product seller shall not be liable in a civil action subject to this
  title based upon an alleged failure to provide warnings or instructions
  unless the claimant establishes that, when the product left the possession
  and control of the product seller, the product seller failed--
  (A) to provide to the person to whom the product seller relinquished
  possession and control of the product any pamphlets, booklets, labels,
  inserts, or other written warnings or instructions received while the
  product was in the product seller's possession and control; or
  (B) to make reasonable efforts to provide users with those warnings and
  instructions which it received after the product left its possession
  and control.
  (3) A product seller shall not be liable in a civil action subject to this
  title except for breach of express warranty where there was no reasonable
  opportunity to inspect the product in a manner which would or should, in
  the exercise of reasonable care, have revealed the aspect of the product
  which allegedly caused the claimant's harm.
  (c) A product seller shall be treated as the manufacturer of a product and
  shall be liable for harm to the claimant caused by a product as if it were
  the manufacturer of the product if--
  (1) the manufacturer is not subject to service of process under the laws
  of any State in which the action might have been brought; or
  (2) the court determines that the claimant would be unable to enforce a
  judgment against the manufacturer.
UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR AWARD OF PUNITIVE DAMAGES
  SEC. 303. (a) Punitive damages may, if otherwise permitted by applicable
  law, be awarded in any civil action subject to this title to any claimant
  who establishes by clear and convincing evidence that the harm suffered
  was the result of conduct manifesting a manufacturer's or product seller's
  conscious, flagrant indifference to the safety of those persons who might be
  harmed by a product. A failure to exercise reasonable care in choosing among
  alternative product designs, formulations, instructions, or warnings is not
  of itself such conduct. Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section,
  punitive damages may not be awarded in the absence of a compensatory award.
  (b) In any civil action in which the alleged harm to the claimant is death
  and the applicable State law provides, or has been construed to provide,
  for damages only punitive in nature, a defendant may be liable for any such
  damages regardless of whether a claim is asserted under this section. The
  recovery of any such damages shall not bar a claim under this section.
  (c)(1) Punitive damages shall not be awarded pursuant to this section
  against a manufacturer or product seller of a drug (as defined in section
  201(g)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(g)(1))
  or medical device (as defined under section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug,
  and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(h)) which caused the claimant's harm where--
  (A) such drug or device was subject to pre-market approval by the Food
  and Drug Administration with respect to the safety of the formulation or
  performance of the aspect of such drug or device which caused the claimant's
  harm or the adequacy of the packaging or labeling of such drug or device,
  and such drug was approved by the Food and Drug Administration; or
  (B) the drug is generally recognized as safe and effective pursuant to
  conditions established by the Food and Drug Administration and applicable
  regulations, including packaging and labeling regulations. The provisions
  of this paragraph shall not apply (i) in any case in which the defendant
  withheld from or misrepresented to the Food and Drug Administration or
  any other agency or official of the Federal Government information that is
  material and relevant to the performance of such drug or device, or (ii)
  in any case in which the defendant made an illegal payment to an official
  of the Food and Drug Administration for the purpose of securing approval
  of such drug or device.
  (2) Punitive damages shall not be awarded pursuant to this section against
  a manufacturer of an aircraft which caused the claimant's harm where--
  (A) such aircraft was subject to pare-market certification by the
  Federal Aviation Administration with respect to the safety of the design
  or performance of the aspect of such aircraft which caused the claimant's
  harm or the adequacy of the warnings regarding the operation or maintenance
  of such aircraft;
  (B) the aircraft was certified by the Federal Aviation Administration
  under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 App. U.S.C. 1301 et seq.); and
  (C) the manufacturer of the aircraft complied, after delivery of the aircraft
  to a user, with Federal Aviation Administration requirements and obligations
  with respect to continuing airworthiness, including the requirement to
  provide maintenance and service information related to airworthiness whether
  or not such information is used by the Federal Aviation Administration in
  the preparation of mandatory maintenance, inspection, or repair directives.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in any case in which
the defendant withheld from or misrepresented to the Federal Aviation
Administration information that is material and relevant to the performance
or the maintenance or operation of such aircraft.
  (d) At the request of the manufacturer or product seller, the trier of fact
  shall consider in a separate proceeding (1) whether punitive damages are
  to be awarded and the amount of such award, or (2) the amount of punitive
  damages following a determination of punitive liability. If a separate
  proceeding is requested, evidence relevant only to the claim of punitive
  damages, as determined by applicable State law, shall be inadmissible in
  any proceeding to determine whether compensatory damages are to be awarded.
  (e) In determining the amount of punitive damages, the trier of fact shall
  consider all relevant evidence, including--
  (1) the financial condition of the manufacturer or product seller;
  (2) the severity of the harm caused by the conduct of the manufacturer or
  product seller;
  (3) the duration of the conduct or any concealment of it by manufacturer
  or product seller;
  (4) the profitability of the conduct to the manufacturer or product seller;
  (5) the number of products sold by the manufacturer or product seller of
  the kind causing the harm complained of by the claimant;
  (6) awards of punitive of exemplary damages to persons similarly situated
  to the claimant;
  (7) prospective awards of compensatory damages to persons similarly situated
  to the claimant;
  (8) any criminal penalties imposed on the manufacturer or product seller
  as a result of the conduct complained of by the claimant; and
  (9) the amount of any civil fines assessed against the defendant as a
  result of the conduct complained of by the claimant.
UNIFORM TIME LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY
  SEC. 304. (a) Any civil action subject to this title shall be barred
  unless the complaint is filed within two years of the time the claimant
  discovered or, in the exercise of reasonable care, should have discovered
  the harm and its cause, except that any such action of a person under legal
  disability may be filed within two years after the disability ceases. If
  the commencement of such an action is stayed or enjoined, the running of
  the statute of limitations under this section shall be suspended for the
  period of the stay or injunction.
  (b)(1) Any civil action subject to this title shall be barried if a product
  which is a capital good is alleged to have caused harm which is not a
  toxic harm unless the complaint is served and filed within twenty-five
  years after the time of delivery of the product. This subsection shall
  apply only if the court determines that the claimant has received or would
  be eligible to receive compensation under any State or Federal workers'
  compensation law for harm caused by the product.
  (2) A motor vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or railroad used primarily to
  transport passengers for hire shall not be subject to the provisions of
  this subsection.
  (3) As used in this section, the term--
  (A) `time of delivery' means the time when a product is delivered to
  its first purchaser or lessee who was not involved in the business of
  manufacturing or selling such product or using it as a component part of
  another product to be sold;
  (B) `capital good' means any product, or any component of any such product,
  which is of a character subject to allowance for depreciation under the
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and which was--
  (i) used in a trade or business;
  (ii) held for the production of income; or
  (iii) sold or donated to a governmental or private entity for the production
  of goods, for training, for demonstration, or for other similar purposes; and
  (C) `toxic harm' means harm which is functional impairment, illness, or
  death of a human being resulting from exposure to an object, substance,
  mixture, raw material, or physical agent of particular chemical composition.
  (c) Nothing in this section shall affect the right of any person who is
  subject to liability for harm under this Act to seek and obtain contribution
  or indemnity from any other person who is responsible for such harm.
UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR OFFSET OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION BENEFITS
  SEC. 305. (a) In any civil action subject to this title in which damages are
  sought for harm for which the person injured is or would have been entitled
  to receive compensation under any State or Federal workers' compensation
  law, any damages awarded shall be reduced by the sum of the amount paid
  as workers' compensation benefits for such harm and the present value of
  all workers' compensation benefits to which the employee is or would be
  entitled for such harm. The determination of workers' compensation benefits
  by the trier of fact in a civil action subject to this title shall have no
  binding effect on and shall not be used as evidence in any other proceeding.
  (b) A claimant in a civil action subject to this title who is or may
  be eligible to receive compensation under any State or Federal workers'
  compensation law must provide written notice of the filing of the civil
  action to the claimant's employer within 30 days of the filing. The
  written notice shall include information regarding the date and court
  in which the civil action was filed, the names and addresses of all
  plaintiffs and defendants appearing on the complaint, the court docket
  number if available, and a copy of the complaint which was filed in the
  civil action. A copy of such written notice shall be filed with the court
  and served upon all parties to the action. A claimant's failure to comply
  with the requirements of this subsection shall suspend the deadlines for
  filing responsive pleadings and commencing discovery in the civil action,
  until the claimant complies with the requirements of this subsection.
  (c) In any civil action subject to this title in which damages are sought
  for harm for which the person injured is entitled to receive compensation
  under any State or Federal workers' compensation law, the action shall,
  on application of the claimant made at claimant's sole discretion, be
  stayed until such time as the full amount payable as workers' compensation
  benefits has been finally determined under such workers' compensation law.
  (d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, unless
  the manufacturer or product seller has expressly agreed to indemnify or
  hold an employer harmless for harm to an employee caused by a product,
  neither the employer nor the workers' compensation insurance carrier of
  the employer shall have a right of subrogation, contribution or implied
  indemnity against the manufacturer or product seller or a lien against
  the claimant's recovery from the manufacturer or product seller if the
  harm is one for which a civil action for harm caused by a product may be
  brought pursuant to this Act.
  (2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply if the employer or the
  workers' compensation insurer of the employer establishes, and the trier
  of fact determines, that the claimant's harm was not in any way caused by
  the fault of the claimant's employer or coemployees. In order to establish
  this fact an employer or the workers' compensation insurer of the employer
  may intervene in a civil action filed by an employee at any time after the
  filing of a complaint. In the event that the civil action is resolved prior
  to obtaining a verdict by the trier of fact, any resolution of the action
  by settlement or other means shall afford the employer or the workers'
  compensation insurer of the employer an opportunity to participate and to
  assert a right of subrogation, contribution, or implied indemnity if the
  claimant's harm was not in any way caused by the fault of the claimant's
  employer or coemployees.
  (e)(1) Except as provided in subsection (f), in any civil action subject to
  this title in which damages are sought for harm for which the person injured
  is or would have been entitled to receive compensation under any State or
  Federal workers' compensation law, no third-party tortfeasor may maintain
  any action for implied indemnity or contribution against the employer, any
  coemployee, or the exclusive representative of the person who was injured.
  (2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect any provision of a
  State or Federal workers' compensation law which prohibits a person who
  is or would have been entitled to receive compensation under any such law,
  or any other person whose claim is or would have been derivative from such
  a claim, from recovering for harm caused by a product in any action other
  than a workers' compensation claim against a present or former employer
  or workers' compensation insurer of the employer, any coemployee, or the
  exclusive representative of the person who was injured. Any action other
  than such a workers' compensation claim shall be prohibited, except that
  nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect any State or Federal
  workers' compensation law which permits recovery based on a claim of an
  intentional tort by the employer or coemployee, where the claimant's harm
  was caused by such an intentional tort.
  (f) Subsection (e) shall not apply and applicable State law shall control
  if the employer or the workers' compensation insurer of the employer,
  in a civil action subject to this title, asserts or attempts to assert,
  because of subsection (d), a right of subrogation, contribution, or implied
  indemnity against the manufacturer or product seller or a lien against
  the claimant's recovery from the manufacturer or product seller.
SEVERAL LIABILITY FOR NONECONOMIC DAMAGES
  SEC. 306. (a) In any product liability action, the liability of each
  defendant for noneconomic damages shall be several only and shall not be
  joint. Each defendant shall be liable only for the amount of noneconomic
  damages allocated to such defendant in direct proportion to such defendant's
  percentage of responsibility as determined under subsection (b) of this
  section. A separate judgment shall be rendered against such defendant for
  that amount.
  (b) For purposes of this section, the trier of fact shall determine the
  proportion of responsibility of each party for the claimant's harm.
  (c) as used in this section, the term--
  (1) `noneconomic damages' means subjective, nonmonetary losses including,
  but not limited to, pain, suffering, inconvenience, mental suffering,
  emotional distress, loss of society and companionship, loss of consotium,
  injury to reputation and humiliation; the term does not include objectively
  verifiable monetary losses including, but not limited, medical expeneses,
  loss of earnings, burial costs, loss of use of property, costs of repair or
  replacement, costs of obtaining substitute domestic services, rehabilitation
  and training expenses, loss of employment, or loss of business or employment
  opportunities; and
  (2) `product liability action' includes any action involving a claim,
  third-party claim, cross-claim, counterclaim, or contribution claim in
  a civil action in which a manufacturer or product seller is found liable
  for harm caused by a product.
DEFENSES INVOLVING INTOXICATING ALCOHOL OR DRUGS
  SEC. 307. (a) In any civil action subject to this Act in whic all defendants
  are manufacturers or product sellers, it shall be a complete defense to
  such action that the claimant was intoxicated or was under the influence of
  intoxicating alcohol or any drug and that as a result of such intoxication
  or the influence of the alcohol or drug the claimant was more than 50 percent
  responsible for the accident or event which resulted in such claimant's harm.
  (b) In any civil action subject to this Act in which not all defendants
  are manufacturers or product sellers and the trier of fact determines that
  no liability exists against those defendants who are not manufacturers or
  product sellers, the court shall enter a judgment notwithstanding the verdict
  in favor of any defendant which is a manufacturer or product seller if it
  is proved that the claimant was intoxicated or was under the influence of
  intoxicating alcohol or any drug and that as a result of such intoxication
  or the influence of the alcohol or drug the claimant was more than 50 percent
  responsible for the accident or event which resulted in such claimant's harm.
  (c)(1) For purposes of this section, the determination of whether a person
  was intoxicated or was under the influence of intoxicating alcohol or any
  drug shall be made pursuant to applicable State law.
  (2) As used in this section, the term `drug' means any non-over-the-counter
  drug which has not been prescribed by a physician for use by the claimant.
S 640 RS----2
S 640 RS----3