Calendar No. 45
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 774
[Report No. 101-19]
A BILL
To reform, recapitalize, and consolidate the Federal deposit insurance
system, to enhance the regulatory and enforcement powers of Federal financial
institutions regulatory agencies, and for other purposes.
April 13 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Read twice and placed on the calendar
 S 774 RS
Calendar No. 45
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 774
[Report No. 101-19]
To reform, recapitalize, and consolidate the Federal deposit insurance
system, to enhance the regulatory and enforcement powers of Federal financial
institutions regulatory agencies, and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 13 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. RIEGLE, from the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, reported
the following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the calendar
A BILL
To reform, recapitalize, and consolidate the Federal deposit insurance
system, to enhance the regulatory and enforcement powers of Federal financial
institutions regulatory agencies, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Financial Institutions
  Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989' or the `FIRRE Act'.
  (b) Table of Contents-
Section 1. Short title and table of contents.
TITLE I--PURPOSES
Sec. 101. Purposes.
TITLE II--FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION AUTHORITIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
Sec. 201. Financial institutions.
Sec. 202. Duties of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Sec. 203. FDIC board members.
Sec. 204. Definitions.
Sec. 205. Insured savings associations.
Sec. 206. Application process; insurance fees.
Sec. 207. Insurability factors.
Sec. 208. Assessments.
Sec. 209. FDIC corporate powers.
Sec. 210. Administration of corporation.
Sec. 211. Insurance funds.
Sec. 212. FDIC receivership powers.
Sec. 213. Bridge banks.
Sec. 214. Valuation of claims and review.
Sec. 215. FSLIC resolution fund.
Sec. 216. Secondary reserve.
Sec. 217. Amendments to section 12.
Sec. 218. Amendments to section 13.
Sec. 219. Borrowing authority.
Sec. 220. Limitation on borrowings.
Sec. 221. Reports.
Sec. 222. Regulations governing insured financial institutions.
Sec. 223. Investment activities of State savings associations.
Sec. 224. Loan to value ratios.
Sec. 225. Nondiscrimination.
TITLE III--CHAIRMAN OF THE OFFICE OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
Sec. 301. Amendment to Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
Sec. 302. Repeals.
Sec. 303. Qualified thrift lender.
Sec. 304. Transitional rule for certain transactions with affiliates.
TITLE IV--DISSOLUTION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS, PERSONNEL, AND PROPERTY OF
FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION
Sec. 401. Dissolution.
Sec. 402. Continuation of rules.
Sec. 403. Personnel.
Sec. 404. Division of property and personnel.
Sec. 405. Repeals.
Sec. 406. Report.
TITLE V--FINANCING FOR THRIFT RESOLUTIONS
Subtitle A--Resolution Trust Corporation
Sec. 501. Resolution Trust Corporation established.
Subtitle B--Resolution Funding Corporation
Sec. 502. Resolution Funding Corporation established.
Sec. 503. Financing Corporation.
Sec. 504. Mixed ownership government corporation.
Sec. 505. Federal Home Loan Bank reserves.
TITLE VI--THRIFT ACQUISITION ENHANCEMENT PROVISIONS
Sec. 601. Acquisition of thrifts by bank holding companies.
Sec. 602. Investments by savings and loan holding companies in unaffiliated
thrift institutions.
Sec. 603. Technical amendment to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
TITLE VII--FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM REFORMS
Subtitle A--Federal Home Loan Bank Act Amendments
Sec. 701. Definitions.
Sec. 702. Federal Home Loan Bank Agency.
Sec. 703. Shareholder eligibility requirements.
Sec. 704. Capital stock.
Sec. 705. Election of bank directors.
Sec. 706. Studies of values.
Sec. 707. Eligibility of borrowers to secure advances.
Sec. 708. Federal Home Loan Bank lending.
Sec. 709. Thrift advisory council.
Sec. 710. Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Industry Advisory
Committee.
Sec. 711. Rate of interest.
Sec. 712. Advances.
Sec. 713. Examinations.
Sec. 714. Conforming Federal Home Loan Bank Act amendments.
Sec. 715. Liquidity.
Sec. 716. Transfers.
Subtitle B--Conforming Amendments
Sec. 721. Repeal of limitation of obligation for administrative expenses.
Sec. 722. Amendment of additional powers of Chairman.
Sec. 723. Amendment of title 5, United States Code.
Sec. 724. Amendment of title 31, United States Code.
Sec. 725. Amendment of Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
provisions.
TITLE VIII--BANK CONSERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS
Sec. 801. Definitions.
Sec. 802. Appointment of conservator.
Sec. 803. Examinations.
Sec. 804. Termination of conservatorship.
Sec. 805. Conservator; powers and duties.
Sec. 806. Liability protection.
Sec. 807. Rules and regulations.
Sec. 808. Repeals.
Sec. 809. Conforming amendment.
TITLE IX--REGULATORY AUTHORITY ENHANCEMENT
Sec. 901. Short title.
Subtitle A--Regulation of Financial Institutions
Sec. 911. Change in terminology.
Sec. 912. Periods applicable to insurance termination.
Sec. 913. Suspension of insurance.
Sec. 914. Restitution, reimbursement, and other remedies.
Sec. 915. Applicability of section 8.
Sec. 916. Temporary cease and desist order.
Sec. 917. Temporary cease and desist order relating to books and records.
Sec. 918. Removal orders.
Sec. 919. Temporary suspension orders.
Sec. 920. Effect of suspension or removal.
Sec. 921. Civil penalties for certain violations.
Sec. 922. Criminal penalties for violation of removal or suspension orders.
Sec. 923. Definitions.
Sec. 924. Employment protection.
Sec. 925. Coordination with chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Sec. 926. Effect on other authority.
Sec. 927. Nondelegability.
Sec. 928. Effect of resignation of institution-related party.
Sec. 929. Penalty for participation.
Sec. 930. Parallel increases in civil penalty provisions.
Sec. 931. Penalty for violation of `Change in Bank Control Act'.
Sec. 932. Reports.
Subtitle B--Regulation by the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank System
Sec. 941. Reports of condition and penalties.
Sec. 942. Continuity of authority for ongoing litigation.
Sec. 943. Extension of authorities.
Subtitle C--Credit Unions
Sec. 951. Definition of institution-related party.
Sec. 952. Periods applicable to insurance termination.
Sec. 953. Restitution and reimbursement authorized.
Sec. 954. Limitations on activities.
Sec. 955. Temporary cease and desist orders relating to books and records.
Sec. 956. Removal orders.
Sec. 957. Temporary suspension orders.
Sec. 958. Effect of removal or suspension.
Sec. 959. Effect of resignation of institution-related party.
Sec. 960. Civil penalty for violation of condition imposed in writing.
Sec. 961. Criminal penalty for violation of removal or suspension order.
Sec. 962. Technical amendment.
Sec. 963. Definitions.
Sec. 964. Effect of other law.
Sec. 965. Employment protection.
Sec. 966. Prohibition against participation.
Sec. 967. Repeal of reporting requirement.
Sec. 968. Reporting violations.
Subtitle D--Right to Financial Privacy Act
Sec. 981. Amendments to Right to Financial Privacy Act.
TITLE X--CRIMINAL ENHANCEMENTS
Sec. 1001. Increased criminal penalties and civil penalties for certain
financial institution offenses.
Sec. 1002. Miscellaneous revisions to title 18.
Sec. 1003. Civil and criminal forfeiture.
Sec. 1004. Grand jury amendments.
Sec. 1005. Litigation authority.
Sec. 1006. Department of Justice appropriation.
TITLE XI--FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION
Sec. 1101. Short title.
Sec. 1102. Purpose.
Sec. 1103. Transition of Board.
Sec. 1104. Regulatory power.
Sec. 1105. Common stock.
Sec. 1106. Fees.
Sec. 1107. Standby credit.
Sec. 1108. Terms of obligations.
Sec. 1109. Collateralized mortgage obligations.
TITLE XII--PARTICIPATION BY STATE HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITIES
Sec. 1201. Definitions.
Sec. 1202. State housing finance authority authorization.
TITLE XIII--STUDY OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND BANKING REGULATION
Sec. 1301. Study.
Sec. 1302. Topics.
Sec. 1303. Final report.
TITLE XIV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 1401. GAO study of credit union system.
Sec. 1402. Credit union regulator salaries.
Sec. 1403. Amendment to section 203 of the Federal Credit Union Act.
Sec. 1404. Amendment to section 5240 of the Revised Statutes.
Sec. 1405. GAO audit of all organizations carrying out functions under the Act.
Sec. 1406. Report on loan discrimination.
Sec. 1407. Equal opportunity.
Sec. 1408. Annual report on the condition of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Funds.
Sec. 1409. Capital and accounting standards.
Sec. 1410. Cross-marketing restrictions.
Sec. 1411. Establishment of Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council.
Sec. 1412. Separability of provisions.
TITLE I--PURPOSES
SEC. 101. PURPOSES.
  The purposes of this Act are--
  (1) to promote a safe and stable system of affordable housing finance
  through regulatory reform;
  (2) to improve supervision by enhancing enforcement powers;
  (3) to curtail needless risks to the Federal Deposit Insurance System by
  strengthening capital, accounting, and other supervisory standards;
  (4) to promote the independence of the Federal deposit insurance system
  from the industry it insures by establishing an independent insurance
  agency to provide deposit insurance for savers;
  (5) to put the Federal deposit insurance system on a sound financial basis
  for the future;
  (6) to establish an Office of Savings Associations in the Department of
  the Treasury;
  (7) to create a new corporation to contain, manage, and resolve failed
  thrift institutions;
  (8) to provide the necessary private and public financing to resolve failed
  financial institutions in an expeditious manner; and
  (9) to provide for more effective civil money penalties and criminal
  penalties for crimes of fraud against financial institutions and
  depositories.
TITLE II--FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION AUTHORITIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
SEC. 201. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise hereinafter provided--
  (1) the Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by striking `insured bank',
  `insured banks', and `insured bank's' and inserting `insured financial
  institution', `insured financial institutions', and `insured financial
  institution's', respectively; and
  (2) by striking `Federal Home Loan Bank Board' and inserting `Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations'.
  (b) EXCEPTIONS- The terms `insured bank' and `insured banks' shall not be
  amended as described in subsection (a)(1)--
  (1) when preceded by `member' or `nonmember'; or
  (2) in section 3(h), section 11(h), section 11(i), section 13(f), and
  section 18(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
SEC. 202. DUTIES OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION.
  Section 1 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811) is amended
  by inserting `and savings associations' after `banks'.
SEC. 203. FDIC BOARD MEMBERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended
  to read as follows:
`SEC. 2. MANAGEMENT.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The management of the Corporation shall be vested in
  a Board of Directors consisting of 5 members, one of whom shall be the
  Comptroller of the Currency, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the
  Office of Savings Associations, one of whom shall be the Chairman of the
  Board of Directors, and 2 of whom shall be appointive members. The Chairman
  and the 2 appointive members shall be citizens of the United States to
  be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
  Senate. No more than 2 of the members from among the Chairman and the
  appointive members shall be members of the same political party.
  `(b) ACTING CHAIRMAN- In the event of a vacancy in the position of the
  Chairman of the Board of Directors, and pending the appointment of his
  successor, or during the absence or disability of the Chairman, an Acting
  Chairman may be selected from the appointive members by a vote of the
  Board of Directors.
  `(c) TERMS- The Chairman and each appointive member shall hold office for
  a term of 6 years. The Chairman and each appointive member may continue to
  serve after the expiration of his term until a successor has been appointed
  and qualified.
  `(d) VACANCY- In the event of a vacancy in the office of the Comptroller of
  the Currency, or Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations and pending
  the appointment of a successor, or during the absence or disability of the
  Comptroller, the Acting Comptroller of the Currency or acting Chairman
  of the Office of Savings Associations shall be a member of the Board of
  Directors in the place and stead of the Comptroller or Chairman. In the
  event of a vacancy in the office of the Vice Chairman of the Board of
  Governors of the Federal Reserve System and pending the appointment of
  a successor, or during the absence or disability of the Vice Chairman,
  the Board of Governors may designate another member thereof in the place
  and instead of the Vice Chairman.
  `(e) OTHER OFFICE- The members of the Board of Directors shall be ineligible
  during the time they are in office and for 2 years thereafter to hold any
  office, position, or employment in any insured financial institution or
  holding company, except that this restriction shall not apply to any member
  who has served the full term for which he was appointed. No member of the
  Board of Directors shall be an officer or director of any insured financial
  institution or holding company or Federal Reserve bank or hold stock in any
  financial institution or holding company. Before entering upon duties as
  a member of the Board of Directors, each member shall certify under oath
  that he or she has complied with this subsection and such certification
  shall be filed with the secretary of the Board of Directors.'.
  (b) TRANSITION PROVISION- The members of the Board of Directors of the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the day before the date of enactment
  of the FIRRE Act shall continue to serve in office until the expiration
  of their existing terms. The Chairman of the Board of Directors on such
  date shall continue to serve until the expiration of his term as a member.
SEC. 204. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (j), by inserting `conserving assets or' before `winding
  up,' and by inserting before the period the following: `, or of a savings
  association';
  (2) in subsection (l)--
  (A) by inserting `or savings association' after `a bank', `the bank',
  `another bank', `receiving bank', and `such bank' each place they appear;
  (B) by inserting `or savings association's' after the word `bank's' each
  time it appears; and
  (C) in paragraph (5), by inserting `, Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations,' after `Comptroller of the Currency';
  (3) in subsection (m)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `the bank' and inserting `the financial
  institution';
  (B) in paragraph (2), by striking `ther' and inserting `term'; and
  (C) by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(3) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN INSURED DEPOSITS- Notwithstanding paragraph (1),
  the amount of an insured deposit held, immediately prior to the date of
  enactment of the FIRRE Act, as an insured account within the meaning of
  section 401(c) of the National Housing Act by a savings association that
  became an insured financial institution as a result of the operation of the
  last sentence of section 4(a) shall be determined in accordance with, and
  subject to the limitations in, the National Housing Act and the regulations,
  principles, and interpretations established by the Federal Savings and Loan
  Insurance Corporation in effect immediately prior to such date of enactment,
  including limitations on the amount of insurance. An insured deposit, or
  portion thereof, described in the preceding sentence that would not be an
  insured deposit or that would exceed the amount of an insured deposit if it
  were held by an insured bank shall cease to be an insured deposit as follows:
  `(A) If the insured deposit has one or more fixed maturity dates, the insured
  deposit shall cease to be included within the term `insured deposit' upon
  the earliest maturity date occurring after the expiration of 6 months from
  the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act.
  `(B) If the insured deposit has a minimum required notice period, the insured
  deposit shall cease to be included within the term `insured deposit' upon
  expiration of the required notice period or upon the expiration of 6 months
  after the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, whichever is later. For the
  purpose of this subparagraph, the required notice period shall be deemed
  to be initiated on the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act.
  `(C) If the insured deposit has no fixed maturity date or required notice
  period, the insured deposit shall cease to be included within the term
  `insured deposit' upon the expiration of 6 months from the date of enactment
  of the FIRRE Act.
The Corporation may provide appropriate notice to depositors whose deposits
are subject to this paragraph of the change in deposit insurance and of the
possible termination of deposit insurance.';
  (4) by striking subsection (q) and inserting the following:
  `(q) The term `appropriate Federal banking agency' shall mean--
  `(1) the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of a national banking
  association, a District bank, or a Federal branch or agency of a foreign
  bank;
  `(2) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System--
  `(A) in the case of a State member insured bank (except a District bank),
  `(B) in the case of any branch or agency of a foreign bank with respect to
  any provision of the Federal Reserve Act which is made applicable under
  the International Banking Act of 1978, except that for the purposes of
  subsections (b) through (y) of section 8 of this Act, the term `insured
  financial institution' includes an uninsured branch or agency of a foreign
  bank or a commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank,
  `(C) in the case of any foreign bank which does not operate an insured
  branch,
  `(D) in the case of any agency or commercial lending company other than
  a Federal agency,
  `(E) in the case of supervisory or regulatory proceedings arising from
  the authority given to the Board of Governors under section 7(c)(1) of
  the International Banking Act of 1978, including such proceedings under
  the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act; and
  `(F) in the case of a bank holding company or subsidiary thereof (other
  than a bank);
  `(3) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the case of a State
  nonmember insured bank (except a District bank) or a foreign bank having
  an insured branch; and
  `(4) the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations in the case of a
  savings association or a savings and loan holding company.
Under the rule set forth in this subsection, more than one agency may be an
appropriate Federal banking agency with respect to any given institution.';
  (5) by striking subsection (t);
  (6) by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(u) The term `savings association' means--
  `(1) any institution the accounts of which were insured by the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation immediately prior to the enactment
  of the FIRRE Act; and
  `(2) a Federal savings and loan association or Federal savings bank, or a
  building and loan, savings and loan, or homestead association, organized
  and operating according to the laws of the State in which it is chartered
  or organized, or a corporation that the Board of Directors determines to be
  operating substantially in the same manner as a savings and loan association.
  `(v) The term `bank' means all banks as defined in subsections (a) through
  (g), including any cooperative bank the deposits of which were insured
  under this Act immediately prior to the enactment of the FIRRE Act. Such
  term does not include any savings association.
  `(w)(1) The term `financial institution' means a bank or savings association.
  `(2) The term `insured financial institution' means a bank or savings
  association the deposits or accounts of which are insured pursuant to
  this Act.
  `(3) The term `Federal financial institution' means a bank chartered by
  the Comptroller of the Currency or a savings association chartered by the
  Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations.
  `(4) The term `State financial institution' means a financial institution
  other than a Federal financial institution.
  `(x)(1) The term `default' with respect to an insured financial institution
  means an adjudication or other official determination of a court of
  competent jurisdiction, the appropriate Federal banking agency, or other
  public authority pursuant to which a conservator, receiver, or other
  legal custodian is appointed for an insured financial institution or,
  in the case of a foreign bank having an insured branch, for such branch.
  `(2) The term `in danger of default' with respect to an insured financial
  institution means that the appropriate Federal banking agency or State
  chartering authority has advised the Corporation with respect to such
  institution (or in the case of a foreign bank having an insured branch,
  with respect to such insured branch) that, in its opinion--
  `(A)(i) the financial institution or insured branch is not likely to be
  able to meet the demands of its depositors or pay its obligations in the
  normal course of business, and
  `(ii) there is no reasonable prospect that the financial institution or
  insured branch will be able to meet such demands or pay such obligations
  without Federal assistance; or
  `(B)(i) the financial institution or insured branch has incurred or is
  likely to incur losses that will deplete all or substantially all of its
  capital, and
  `(ii) there is no reasonable prospect for the replenishment of the capital
  of the financial institution or insured branch without Federal assistance.
  `(y)(1) The term `financial institution holding company' means a bank
  holding company or a savings and loan holding company.
  `(2) The term `bank holding company' has the same meaning as in section
  2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
  `(3) The term `savings and loan holding company' has the same meaning as
  in section 10(a)(1)(D) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
  `(z)(1) The term `institution-related party' means a director, officer,
  employee, agent, controlling shareholder (other than a holding company),
  or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of an insured
  financial institution or a subsidiary of an insured financial institution,
  or any person who has filed or is required to file a change-in-control
  notice with the appropriate Federal banking agency under section 7(j).
  `(2) The term `other person participating in the conduct of the affairs
  of an insured financial institution or subsidiary of an insured financial
  institution' includes, in addition, an independent contractor (including an
  attorney, appraiser, or accountant) who knowingly or recklessly participates
  in a wrongful action that had or is likely to have an adverse effect on
  an insured institution.
  `(aa) The term `subsidiary' means any company owned or controlled directly
  or indirectly by another company. Such term includes a service corporation
  owned in whole or in part by an insured financial institution or any
  subsidiary of such a service corporation.
  `(bb) The term `control' has the same meaning as under section 2 of the
  Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
  `(cc) The term `violation' includes without limitation any action (alone or
  with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating
  in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.
  `(dd) The term `State housing finance authority' means any public agency,
  authority, or corporation that serves as an instrumentality of a State or
  political subdivision thereof and which functions as a source of residential
  mortgage loan financing in any such State.
  `(ee) The term `mortgage related assets' means (1) residential mortgage
  loans secured by one-to-four family or multi-family dwellings, and (2)
  real property improved with one-to-four family or multi-family residential
  dwellings, in all such cases located within the jurisdiction of the
  applicable State Housing Finance Authority.'.
SEC. 205. INSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.
  Section 4 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1814) is amended--
  (1) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following: `Each savings
  association, the accounts of which were insured by the Federal Savings
  and Loan Insurance Corporation on the date immediately preceding the date
  of enactment of the FIRRE Act, shall be, without application or approval,
  an insured financial institution as of the date of enactment of that Act.';
  (2) by inserting after the first sentence of subsection (b) the following:
  `Any application or notice for membership or to commence or resume business
  shall be promptly provided by the appropriate Federal banking agency to the
  Corporation and the Corporation shall have a reasonable period to provide
  comments with respect thereto which must be considered by the appropriate
  Federal banking agency in making its findings thereon and with respect to
  the statutory factors in section 6 of this Act.';
  (3) by striking the last two sentences of subsection (b) and all of
  subsection (c) and inserting the following:
  `(c) CONTINUATION OF INSURANCE FOLLOWING CONVERSION- A State financial
  institution resulting from the conversion of an insured Federal financial
  institution shall continue as an insured financial institution.
  `(d) CONTINUATION OF INSURANCE FOLLOWING MERGER- A State financial
  institution resulting from the merger or consolidation of insured financial
  institutions, or from the merger or consolidation of a noninsured financial
  institution with an insured financial institution, shall continue as an
  insured financial institution.'.
SEC. 206. APPLICATION PROCESS; INSURANCE FEES.
  Section 5 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1815) is amended--
  (1) by striking out `(a) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any'
  and inserting `(a) APPLICATION FOR INSURANCE-
  `(1) BANKS- Any';
  (2) in the first sentence of subsection (a)(1), by inserting `and State
  savings association' after `State nonmember bank'; and
  (3) in the second sentence of subsection (a)(1)--
  (A) by striking the comma following `State nonmember bank' and inserting
  `or such State savings association,';
  (B) by striking the comma after `such bank' and inserting `or savings
  association,'; and
  (C) by inserting before the period the following: `or savings association';
  (4) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following:
  `(2) SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS- Any Federal savings association that is
  authorized by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations to
  engage in the business of receiving deposits, other than trust funds
  as herein defined, upon application by the association to the Chairman
  of the Office of Savings Associations, may become an insured financial
  institution following submission of such application to the Corporation
  together with a certificate issued to the Corporation by the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations, unless insurance is denied by the Board
  of Directors. Such certificate shall state that the savings association
  is authorized to transact business as a savings association and that
  consideration has been given to the factors enumerated in section 6 of this
  Act. After the Corporation's review of such certificate and application,
  and any appropriate examination by the Corporation, the Board of Directors
  shall give consideration to the factors set forth in paragraphs (1), (2),
  (3), (4), and (5) of section 6 of this Act in determining whether to deny
  insurance. If the Board of Directors, after giving due deference to the
  determination of the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations does
  not concur with the determination of the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations, the Board of Directors shall promptly notify the Chairman
  of the Office of Savings Associations that insurance has been denied,
  giving specific reasons in writing for the Corporation's determination. In
  such case no insurance shall be granted. Any determination by the Board
  of Directors to deny insurance to a Federal savings association under
  this subsection may not be delegated and may be made only upon a vote
  of three-fourths of all members of the Board of Directors. With respect
  to any interim Federal savings association chartered by the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations, and which will not open for business,
  insurance shall be automatically granted upon issuance of such association's
  charter by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations.';
  (5) in subsection (b)--
  (A) in paragraph (4), by inserting `and fitness' after character;
  (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (6),
  (7), and (8), respectively; and
  (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
  `(5) the risk presented to the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund;';
  (6) by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(d) Insurance Fees-
  `(1) Noninsured institutions-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Every noninsured financial institution that becomes insured
  by the Corporation, and every noninsured branch that becomes insured
  by the Corporation, shall pay the Corporation a fee the Corporation may
  by regulation prescribe, after giving due consideration to the need to
  establish and maintain reserve ratios in the Bank Insurance Fund and the
  Savings Association Insurance Fund as required by section 7. A financial
  institution that becomes an insured financial institution as a result of
  the operation of the last sentence of section 4(a) of this Act shall not
  pay a fee under this subparagraph.
  `(B) FEE CREDITED TO APPROPRIATE FUND- The fee paid by the financial
  institution shall be credited to the Bank Insurance Fund if the financial
  institution becomes a Bank Insurance Fund member, or to the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund if the financial institution becomes a Savings
  Association Insurance Fund member.
  `(2) Conversions-
  `(A) PROHIBITED- No insured financial institution may participate in a
  conversion transaction without the prior consent of the Corporation. Except
  as provided in paragraph (C), the Corporation shall not provide its consent
  to any conversion transaction occurring before the expiration of 5 years
  from the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act.
  `(B) DEFINED- A `conversion transaction' means--
  `(i) the change of status of an insured financial institution, whether as
  a result of a charter conversion or otherwise, from a Bank Insurance Fund
  member to a Savings Association Insurance Fund member or from a Savings
  Association Insurance Fund member to a Bank Insurance Fund member;
  `(ii) the merger or consolidation of a Bank Insurance Fund member with a
  Savings Association Insurance Fund member;
  `(iii)(I) the assumption on the part of a Bank Insurance Fund member of
  liability to pay any deposits in a Savings Association Insurance Fund
  member; or
  `(II) the assumption on the part of a Savings Association Insurance Fund
  member of liability to pay any deposits in a Bank Insurance Fund member; or
  `(iv)(I) the transfer on the part of a Bank Insurance Fund member of assets
  to any Savings Association Insurance Fund member in consideration of the
  assumption of liabilities for any portion of the deposits in such Bank
  Insurance Fund member; or
  `(II) the transfer on the part of a Savings Association Insurance Fund
  member of assets to any Bank Insurance Fund member in consideration of the
  assumption of liabilities for any portion of the deposits in such Savings
  Association Insurance Fund member.
  `(C) PERMITTED CONVERSIONS- The Corporation may provide its consent at
  any time to a conversion transaction if--
  `(i) the conversion transaction affects an insubstantial portion, as
  determined by the Corporation, of the insured liabilities of each financial
  institution participating in the conversion transaction;
  `(ii) the conversion occurs in connecting with the acquisition of a Savings
  Association Insurance Fund member in default or in danger of default,
  the Corporation determines that the financial benefits to the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund equals or exceeds the Corporation's estimate
  of loss of assessment income to such insurance fund over the 5 years
  following the conversion, and the Resolution Trust Corporation concurs
  with the Corporation's determination;
  `(iii) the conversion occurs in connection with the acquisition of a Bank
  Insurance Fund member in default or in danger of default and the Corporation
  determines that the financial benefits to the Bank Insurance Fund equals
  or exceeds the Corporation's estimate of the loss of assessment income to
  the insurance fund over the 5 years following the conversion;
  `(iv) the conversion occurs in connection with the acquisition of a State
  chartered savings association pursuant to a letter of intent or a written
  memorandum of understanding entered into on or prior to December 31, 1988,
  with a bank holding company, which savings association (I) has never
  accepted deposits, (II) is not insured by the Federal Savings and Loan
  Insurance Corporation, and (III) has been owned by an entity which is
  required by Federal statute to divest itself of such savings association; or
  `(v) the conversion transaction assists the transferring financial
  institution in meeting a capital standard agreed to by the transferring
  financial institution with its Federal supervisory agency prior to
  the passage of the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987, and the
  transferring institution has made a commitment in writing to use any gain
  from the conversion transaction to increase its capital.
For the purpose of clause (i), a conversion transaction shall be deemed to
affect an insubstantial portion of the insured liabilities of the financial
institution if the insured liabilities transferred over the 5-year period
commencing upon enactment of the FIRRE Act do not exceed 20 percent of such
insured liabilities existing at the date of enactment of such Act.
  `(D) EXIT AND ENTRY FEES-
  `(i) The Corporation, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury,
  is authorized to prescribe and impose an exit fee which shall be payable in
  the case of a conversion transaction in which the resulting or acquiring
  financial institution is a Bank Insurance Fund member. The fee shall be
  collected from the converting institution or other institution involved
  in the conversion specified by the Secretary and shall be payable in the
  same manner and to the same entity as if it were an assessment for the
  year or other applicable period during which the conversion occurs.
  `(ii) The Corporation is authorized to establish and collect an entrance
  fee. The Corporation is authorized to determine the amount of the fee,
  except that--
  `(I) in the case of a conversion transaction in which the resulting or
  acquiring financial institution is a Bank Insurance Fund member, the fee
  shall be in an amount necessary to prevent dilution of the Bank Insurance
  Fund, and shall be paid to the Bank Insurance Fund; and
  `(II) in the case of a conversion transaction in which the resulting or
  acquiring financial institution is a Savings Association Insurance Fund
  member, the fee shall be in an amount necessary to prevent dilution of
  the Savings Association Insurance Fund, and shall be paid to the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund.
  `(e) Liability of Commonly-Controlled Financial Institutions-
  `(1) REIMBURSEMENT REQUIRED- On and after the date of enactment of the
  FIRRE Act, whenever the Corporation, acting in accordance with applicable
  law, incurs a loss in connection with the default of an insured financial
  institution, or in connection with providing assistance to an insured
  financial institution in danger of default, any other commonly-controlled
  insured financial institution shall be liable to the Corporation following
  notice to the institution as provided in this subsection and on request
  shall reimburse the Corporation for any such loss. No such liability shall
  arise under this subsection if the Corporation fails to provide notice
  within 2 years of the date the Corporation incurs such loss.
  `(2) Amount of compensation; procedures-
  `(A) USE OF ESTIMATES- When an insured financial institution is in default or
  requires assistance to prevent default, the Corporation shall in good faith
  estimate its prospective losses resulting from such default or assistance,
  shall advise any commonly-controlled financial institution of the amount
  of its liability in connection with such losses, and if there is more
  than one such commonly-controlled financial institution, determine each
  commonly-controlled financial institution's share of such liability.
  `(B) PROCEDURES; IMMEDIATE PAYMENT- The Corporation, after consultation
  with the appropriate Federal banking agency, shall specify the procedures
  and schedule by which each such commonly-controlled financial institution
  must reimburse the Corporation for its liability under this subsection on a
  case-by-case basis. The Corporation may compel any or all commonly-controlled
  financial institutions to make immediate payment of any compensation
  required under paragraph (1).
  `(C) PRIORITY- The liability established pursuant to the provisions of
  this subsection shall be--
  `(i) superior to the following obligations and liabilities of the financial
  institution:
  `(I) any obligation subordinated to depositors or other general creditors;
  `(II) any obligation to shareholders arising as a result of their status
  as shareholders (including a bank holding company or savings and loan
  holding company or any shareholder or creditor of such company); or
  `(III) any unsecured obligation or liability owed to any other
  commonly-controlled company or commonly-controlled insured financial
  institution; and
  `(ii) subordinate in right or payment to the following obligations and
  liabilities of the financial institution:
  `(I) deposit liabilities other than those to commonly-controlled financial
  institutions;
  `(II) secured obligations; and
  `(III) other general liabilities, except to the extent specified in (i)
  above; and
  `(iii) equal in preference with other liabilities and obligations of the
  financial institution.
  `(D) Adjustment of estimated payment-
  `(i) OVERPAYMENT- If the amount of compensation estimated by and paid
  to the Corporation by one or more such commonly-controlled financial
  institutions is greater than the actual loss incurred by the Corporation,
  the Corporation shall reimburse each such commonly-controlled financial
  institution its pro-rata share of any overpayment.
  `(ii) UNDERPAYMENT- If the amount of compensation estimated by and paid
  to the Corporation by one or more such commonly-controlled financial
  institutions is less than the actual loss incurred by the Corporation,
  the Corporation shall redetermine in its discretion the liability of each
  such commonly-controlled financial institution to the Corporation and
  shall require each such commonly-controlled financial institution to make
  payment of any additional liability to the Corporation.
  `(3) Review-
  `(A) ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW- The Corporation shall by regulation establish
  an administrative procedure for review of the amount of losses, the
  liability of individual commonly-controlled financial institutions, and
  the schedule of payments to be made by such commonly-controlled financial
  institutions. The regulations shall provide for a hearing on the record
  in accordance with section 556 of title 5, United States Code, on the part
  of any such commonly-controlled financial institution.
  `(B) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Determinations made by the Corporation of the amount
  of losses, the liability of commonly-controlled financial institutions, or
  the procedures or scheduling of the payments required, shall be reviewable
  by the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit or the Court
  of Appeals for the circuit where the financial institution in default or
  in danger of default is located, in accordance with chapter 7 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(4) LIMITATION ON RIGHTS OF PRIVATE PARTIES- No court shall give effect
  to any rights or powers conferred on any person, by State or Federal law
  or otherwise, insofar as giving effect to any such rights or powers would
  impair the ability of the financial institution to perform its obligations
  under this subsection.
  `(5) Limitations-
  `(A) LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS- The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
  to any limited partnership or its affiliates (other than insured financial
  institutions which are majority-owned subsidiaries of such partnership)
  if a registration statement indicating that such partnership intends or
  intended to acquire one or more insured financial institutions was filed
  with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such partnership
  on or before April 10, 1989.
  `(B) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION AND BANK INSURANCE FUND MEMBERS- For a period of 5
  years from the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, no Savings Association
  Insurance Fund member shall have any liability to the Corporation under
  this subsection arising out of assistance provided to or loss incurred as a
  result of the default of a Bank Insurance Fund member, and no Bank Insurance
  Fund member shall have such liability with respect to assistance provided
  to or loss incurred as a result of the default of a Savings Association
  Insurance Fund member.
  `(C) EXCLUSION- Notwithstanding the foregoing, no insured financial
  institution shall be liable to the Corporation for any such loss incurred
  in connection with the default of or provision of assistance to any other
  commonly-controlled insured financial institution, the principal office of
  which is located in another State, if that other State was economically
  distressed at the time of the acquisition of the commonly-controlled
  insured financial institution in that other State, and one or more
  commonly-controlled insured financial institutions in that other State had
  assets in excess of $4,000,000,000 in the aggregate and was a member of the
  Federal Reserve System. This subparagraph shall apply only for 5 years after
  the acquisition or such longer period determined by the Corporation after
  written application by the acquiror, and only to acquisitions consummated
  on May 1, 1987, or January 29, 1988.
  `(D) DEFINITION- Financial institutions are not `commonly-controlled' for
  a period of 5 years after the acquisition or such longer period determined
  by the Corporation after written application of the acquiror, whenever one
  financial institution controls another by virtue of ownership of voting
  shares acquired in securing or collecting a debt previously contracted
  in good faith, and from the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act to the
  expiration of the exclusion, notwithstanding the provisions of 23A(d)(1) of
  the Federal Reserve Act, the controlling bank and all of its other insured
  financial institution affiliates comply fully with the restrictions of 23A
  and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act in their transactions with the acquired
  insured financial institution.
  `(6) DEFINITION- For the purpose of this subsection, financial institutions
  are `commonly-controlled' if they are affiliates of the same financial
  institution holding company or any company required to file reports pursuant
  to section 4(f)(6) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.'.
SEC. 207. INSURABILITY FACTORS.
  Section 6 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1816) is amended
  to read as follows:
`SEC. 6. FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
  `Except as otherwise provided, the factors to be considered and enumerated
  in the certificate required under section 4(b) and to be considered by
  the Board of Directors under section 5 shall be--
  `(1) the financial history and condition of the financial institution;
  `(2) the adequacy of its capital structure;
  `(3) its future earnings prospects;
  `(4) the general character and fitness of its management;
  `(5) the risk presented to the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund, as appropriate;
  `(6) the convenience and needs of the community to be served; and
  `(7) whether or not its corporate powers are consistent with the purposes
  of this Act.'.
SEC. 208. ASSESSMENTS.
  Section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
  (A) by inserting `, the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations,
  any Federal Home Loan Bank,' after `Comptroller of the Currency' in the
  first sentence of subparagraph (A);
  (B) by striking `either' and inserting `any' in such sentence;
  (C) by striking `State nonmember bank (except a District bank)' in the
  second sentence of subparagraph (A) and inserting `financial institution';
  (D) by inserting `to the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations,
  to any Federal Home Loan Bank,' after `Comptroller of the Currency,'
  in the second sentence of subparagraph (A); and
  (E) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
  `(B) The Board of Directors may from time to time require any or all insured
  financial institutions to file such additional reports as the Corporation,
  after agreement with the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors
  of the Federal Reserve System, and the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations, as appropriate, may deem advisable for insurance purposes.';
  (2) in subsection (a)(3)--
  (A) by striking all before `reports of condition' and inserting `Each
  insured financial institution shall make to the appropriate Federal banking
  agency 4';
  (B) by inserting after the word `bank' each time it appears in the second,
  fifth, and sixth sentences, the following: `or savings association';
  (C) by inserting after `member bank' in the seventh sentence the following:
  `and each insured savings association'; and
  (D) by inserting `or savings associations' after `banks' in the last
  sentence;
  (3) in paragraphs (4) and (7), by inserting after the words `bank', `bank's',
  or `banks' (except `foreign banks') the words `or savings association',
  `or savings association's', or, `or savings associations', respectively;
  (4) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) and inserting in
  lieu thereof the following:
  `(1) ASSESSMENT RATES-
  `(A) ANNUAL ASSESSMENT RATES PRESCRIBED- The Corporation shall set assessment
  rates for insured financial institutions annually. The Corporation shall fix
  the annual assessment rate for Bank Insurance Fund members independently from
  the annual assessment rate for Savings Association Insurance Fund members.
  `(B) ASSESSMENT RATE FOR BANK INSURANCE FUND MEMBERS- The annual assessment
  rate for Bank Insurance Fund members shall be--
  `(i) until December 31, 1989, one-twelfth of 1 percent;
  `(ii) from January 1, 1990, through December 31, 1990, twelve one-hundredths
  of 1 percent; and
  `(iii) on and after January 1, 1991, fifteen one-hundredths of 1 percent.
  `(C) ASSESSMENT RATES FOR SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND MEMBERS-
  The annual assessment rate for Savings Association Insurance Fund members
  shall be--
  `(i) until December 31, 1990, 20.8 one-hundredths of 1 percent;
  `(ii) from January 1, 1991, through December 31, 1993, twenty-three
  one-hundredths of 1 percent;
  `(iii) from January 1, 1994, through December 31, 1997, eighteen
  one-hundredths of 1 percent; and
  `(iv) on or after January 1, 1998, fifteen one-hundredths of 1 percent.
  `(D) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED IN ADJUSTING RATE- Effective on and after
  January 1, 1994, the Corporation shall have authority and discretion to
  fix the annual assessment rates for insured financial institutions above
  the levels described in paragraphs (B) and (C) if the Corporation makes
  the findings required by this subparagraph. Except as otherwise expressly
  provided herein, the Corporation shall not fix any such annual assessment
  rates that exceed the maximum levels specified in paragraph (E). Before
  increasing the annual assessment rates, the Corporation shall determine
  that one or more of the following conditions exist:
  `(i) BANK INSURANCE FUND- In the case of Bank Insurance Fund members,
  the factors shall be the following:
  `(I) That the Bank Insurance Fund has experienced a net loss during any
  one of the prior 3 years;
  `(II) That the Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio is less than 1.20 percent
  (after such ratio has, subsequent to the enactment of the FIRRE Act,
  exceeded 1.20 percent); or
  `(III) That, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, extraordinary
  circumstances exist that raise a reasonable risk of serious future losses
  to the Bank Insurance Fund.
  `(ii) SAVINGS ASSOCIATION INSURANCE FUND- In the case of Savings Association
  Insurance Fund members, the factors shall be the following:
  `(I) That the Savings Association Insurance Fund has experienced a net
  loss during any one of the prior 3 years;
  `(II) That the Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio is less
  than 1.20 percent (after ratio has, subsequent to the enactment of the
  FIRRE Act, exceeded 1.20 percent); or
  `(III) That, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, extraordinary
  circumstances exist that raise a reasonable risk of serious future losses
  to the Savings Association Insurance Fund.
  `(iii) MAXIMUM ANNUAL INCREASE- The maximum annual increase in the
  annual assessment rate with respect to each fund shall not exceed five
  one-hundredths of one percent over the annual assessment rate of the
  prior year.
  `(E) EXCEPTIONS- Notwithstanding subparagraphs (B), (C) and (D) of this
  paragraph--
  `(i) the Corporation may in its discretion set a lower minimum annual
  assessment rate for the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund if the respective fund has a reserve ratio greater than
  1.25 percent and it is likely that such reserve ratio will not decrease
  over the following 5-year period;
  `(ii) each insured financial institution shall pay a minimum semiannual
  assessment of $250, or such higher amount as may be calculated by the
  Corporation to cover direct expenses incurred by the Corporation related
  to such institution, or a lower amount if the conditions provided in clause
  (i) of this subparagraph exist; and
  `(iii) the annual assessment rate shall not exceed thirty one-hundredths
  of 1 percent, except as provided in clause (ii) of this subparagraph.
  `(F) FINANCING CORPORATION AND FUNDING CORPORATION ASSESSMENTS-
  Notwithstanding any authority provided herein, with respect to Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members, amounts assessed by the Financing
  Corporation and the Funding Corporation under section 21 and 21B,
  respectively, of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act shall be subtracted from
  the amounts authorized to be assessed by the Corporation hereunder. The
  Corporation may adopt such regulations as may be necessary to phase in the
  assessments required to be made by the Financing Corporation on Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members pursuant to section 21 of the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Act in order that the Financing Corporation can obtain
  sufficient funds for interest payments required thereunder.
  `(2) ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES-
  `(A) SEMIANNUAL ASSESSMENTS- Except as provided in subsection (c)(2)
  of this section--
  `(i) the semiannual assessment due from any Bank Insurance Fund member for
  any semiannual period shall be equal to one-half the annual assessment
  rate applicable to such Bank Insurance Fund member multiplied by such
  Bank Insurance Fund member's average assessment base for the immediately
  preceding semiannual period; and
  `(ii) the semiannual assessment due from any Savings Association Insurance
  Fund member for any semiannual period shall be equal to one-half the
  annual assessment rate applicable to such Savings Association Insurance
  Fund member multiplied by such Savings Association Insurance Fund member's
  average assessment base for the immediately preceding semiannual period.
  `(B) PERIOD DEFINED- For the purpose of this section the term `semiannual
  period' means a period beginning on January 1 of any calendar year and
  ending on June 30 of the same year, or a period beginning on July 1 of
  any calendar year and ending on December 31 of the same year.';
  (5) in paragraphs (3) through (8) of subsection (b), by striking `bank' and
  `bank's' and inserting `financial institution' and `financial institution's',
  respectively, except that the phrases `foreign bank' and `foreign banks'
  shall not be amended; and
  (6) in subsection (c)--
  (A) by striking `bank' and inserting `financial institution', and
  (B) by inserting after the first sentence the following: `A financial
  institution that becomes an insured financial institution as a result of
  the operation of section 4(a) shall pay such an assessment.';
  (7) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
  `(d) ASSESSMENT CREDITS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- As of December 31, 1990, and as of December 31 of each
  calendar year thereafter, the Corporation shall compute the aggregate
  amount to be credited to insured financial institutions.
  `(2) AMOUNT OF ASSESSMENT CREDIT-
  `(A) CREDIT BARRED- Whenever the Board of Directors determines that the Bank
  Insurance Fund reserve ratio is equal to or less than 1.25 percent, the Board
  of Directors shall not credit any amount to Bank Insurance Fund members.
  `(B) CREDIT AUTHORIZED-
  `(i) AGGREGATE CREDIT- Whenever the Board of Directors determines that
  the Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio exceeds 1.25 percent, or such higher
  level as the Board of Directors in its discretion may determine, the Board
  of Directors may in its discretion credit the smaller of the following
  amounts to Bank Insurance Fund members--
  `(I) The amount necessary to reduce the Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio to
  1.25 percent or such higher level as the Board of Directors may determine; or
  `(II) 60 percent of the net assessment income received from Bank Insurance
  Fund members the prior year.
  `(ii) DEDUCTION FOR CERTAIN OBLIGATIONS- The Corporation shall deduct any
  outstanding obligations owed to the Corporation by an individual insured
  financial institution from any assessment credit to be credited to such
  financial institution.
  `(C) CREDIT BARRED- Whenever the Board of Directors determines that the
  Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio is equal to or less than
  1.25 percent, the Board of Directors shall not credit any amount to Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members.
  `(D) CREDIT AUTHORIZED-
  `(i) AGGREGATE CREDIT- Whenever the Board of Directors determines that the
  Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio exceeds 1.25 percent or
  such higher level as the Board of Directors in its discretion may determine,
  the Board of Directors may in its discretion credit the smaller of the
  following amounts to Savings Association Insurance Fund members--
  `(I) the amount necessary to reduce the Savings Association Insurance
  Fund reserve ratio to 1.25 percent, or such higher level as the Board of
  Directors may determine; or
  `(II) 60 percent of the net assessment income received from Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members the prior year.
  `(ii) DEDUCTION FOR CERTAIN OBLIGATIONS- The Corporation shall deduct any
  outstanding obligations owed to the Corporation by an individual insured
  financial institution from any assessment credit to be credited to such
  financial institution.
  `(3) APPLICATION OF ASSESSMENT CREDIT- Each year any such credit shall
  be applied by the Corporation toward the payment of the total assessment
  becoming due for the semiannual assessment period beginning the next ensuing
  July 1 and any excess credit shall be applied upon the assessments next
  becoming due.
  `(4) `NET ASSESSMENT INCOME' DEFINED- The term `net assessment income'
  means the total assessments which become due during the calendar year less--
  `(A) the operating costs and expenses of the Corporation for the calendar
  year;
  `(B) additions to reserve to provide for insurance losses during the
  calendar year, except that any adjustments to reserve which result in a
  reduction of such reserve shall be added;
  `(C) the insurance losses sustained in said calendar year plus losses from
  any preceding years in excess of such reserves; and
  `(D) any lending costs for the calendar year, which costs shall be equal
  to the amount by which the amount of interest earned, if any, from each
  loan made by the Corporation under section 13 of this Act after January
  1, 1982, is less than the amount which the Corporation would have earned
  in interest for the calendar year if interest had been paid on such loan
  during such calendar year at a rate equal to the average current value of
  funds to the United States Treasury for such calendar year.
If the above deductions exceed in amount the total assessments which become
due during the calendar year, the amount of such excess shall be restored
by deduction from total assessments becoming due in subsequent years.';
  (8) by striking `bank' wherever it appears in subsections (e), (f), (g)
  and (i) and inserting `financial institution';
  (9) in subsection (j)--
  (A) in the last sentence of paragraph (1)--
  (i) by inserting `(A)' before `any `bank holding company'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the period the following: `; (B) any `savings
  and loan holding company' which has control of any insured financial
  institution, and the appropriate Federal banking agency in the case of
  savings and loan holding companies shall be the Chairman of the Office of
  Savings Associations; and (C) any other company that controls an insured
  financial institution that is not a bank holding company or a savings and
  loan holding company';
  (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking `failure' and inserting `default' and
  by striking `bank' wherever it appears and inserting `financial institution';
  (C) in paragraph (2)(D), by inserting `unless it finds that an emergency
  exists,' after the comma following the word `shall';
  (D) in paragraph (7)--
  (i) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (D);
  (ii) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting
  `; or'; and
  (iii) by adding at the end the following:
  `(F) the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the proposed
  transaction would result in an adverse effect on the Bank Insurance Fund,
  or the Savings Association Insurance Fund.';
  (E) by striking paragraph (17) and inserting the following:
  `(17) APPLICABILITY- This subsection shall not apply to--
  `(A) a transaction subject to section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act
  of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842) or section 18 of this Act (12 U.S.C. 1828); or
  `(B) the acquisition of a savings association which acquisition is subject
  to section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.'; and
  (F) by adding at the end the following:
  `(l) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) the `Bank Insurance Fund reserve ratio' is the ratio of the net worth
  of the Bank Insurance Fund to the value of the aggregate insured deposits
  held in all Bank Insurance Fund members;
  `(2) the `Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio' is the ratio
  of the value of the net worth of the Savings Association Insurance Fund to
  the value of the aggregate insured deposits held in all Savings Association
  Insurance Fund members;
  `(3) `Bank Insurance Fund member' means any insured financial institution
  other than a Savings Association Insurance fund member; and
  `(4) `Savings Association Insurance Fund member' means any financial
  institution the accounts of which were insured by the Federal Savings and
  Loan Insurance Corporation immediately prior to the enactment of the FIRRE
  Act, any insured savings association other than a Federal savings bank
  chartered pursuant to section 5(o) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933,
  and any other financial institution that is required to pay assessments
  into the Savings Association Insurance Fund.'.
SEC. 209. FDIC CORPORATE POWERS.
  Section 9 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1819) is amended--
  (1) by striking out the words `bank' and `banks' wherever they appear
  and inserting `financial institution' and `financial institutions',
  respectively; and
  (2) by striking out the provisions of Paragraph Four after the phrase `as
  receiver of a State bank' and replacing them with the following: `other
  than as receiver under the provisions of section 11(e)(2) or 11(e)(3) and
  which involves only the preappointment rights of or obligations owing to
  depositors, creditors, or stockholders against or by such State financial
  institution under State law shall not be deemed to arise under the laws of
  the United States. Nothing in the foregoing shall limit the right of the
  Corporation to invoke the jurisdiction of a United States district court
  where the Corporation is acting as receiver of a State financial institution
  and that institution could have invoked such jurisdiction. No attachment or
  execution shall be issued against the Corporation or its property before
  final judgment in any suit, action, or proceeding in any State, county,
  municipal or United States court. The Board of Directors shall designate
  agents upon whom service of process may be made in any State, territory,
  or jurisdiction in which any insured bank is located.'.
SEC. 210. ADMINISTRATION OF CORPORATION.
  Section 10(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by inserting after `or other institution'
  a comma and the following: `including a State savings association,';
  (2) in the second sentence, by striking `insured Federal savings bank'
  and inserting `insured savings association'.
SEC. 211. INSURANCE FUNDS.
  Section 11(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a))
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1) On and after the effective date of the FIRRE Act, the Corporation shall
  insure the deposits of all insured financial institutions as provided in
  this Act. Except as provided in paragraph (2), the maximum amount of the
  insured deposit of any depositor shall be $100,000.';
  (B) in paragraph (2)(b), by striking `(b)' and inserting `(B)' and by
  striking `time and savings'.
  (C) by adding at the end the following:
  `(4) There are established two insurance funds both to be operated and
  administered by the Corporation and to be separately maintained and not
  commingled, which shall be used by the Corporation for the purposes of
  carrying out the insurance purposes of this Act in the manner set forth
  below:
  `(A) On the effective date of the FIRRE Act, there is established a fund to
  be designated the Bank Insurance Fund. On that date, the Permanent Insurance
  Fund shall be dissolved and all the assets, debts, obligations, contracts,
  and other liabilities of the Permanent Insurance Fund, matured or unmatured,
  accrued, absolute, contingent, or otherwise shall hereby be transferred in
  their entirety to the Bank Insurance Fund. The Bank Insurance Fund shall
  be available to the Corporation for the uses and purposes herein provided
  with respect to the Bank Insurance Fund members. All amounts assessed Bank
  Insurance Fund members by the Corporation shall be deposited into the Bank
  Insurance Fund.
  `(B)(i) On the effective date of the FIRRE Act, there is established
  a fund to be designated the Savings Association Insurance Fund. All
  amounts assessed Savings Association Insurance Fund members from the
  date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, and not required for the Financing
  Corporation or for the Resolution Funding Corporation pursuant to section
  21 and 21B, respectively, of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, or for the
  FSLIC Resolution Fund pursuant to section 11A of this Act, shall be covered
  into the Savings Association Insurance Fund. Beginning on January 1, 1992,
  no amounts assessed Savings Association Insurance Fund members shall be
  provided to the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
  `(ii)(I) Beginning in fiscal year 1991, in order to provide funding to the
  Savings Association Insurance Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury shall,
  subject to the availability of appropriations, pay to the Fund the amounts
  per fiscal year, less the assessment paid by the savings associations to
  the Fund for such fiscal year, as set forth in the following table:
 `Fiscal year ending September 30
--Dollars in billions
1991
--$2.0
1992
--3.4
1993
--4.6
1994
--3.0
1995
--4.0
1996
--4.0
1997
--4.0
1998
--4.0
1999
--3.0
  `(II) When the Savings Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio equals
  or exceeds 1.25 percent no further amounts shall be paid to the Fund by
  the Secretary of the Treasury. The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to
  the Savings Association Insurance Fund such additional funds as necessary,
  if any, to ensure that such Fund has the minimum net worth, as determined
  by the Corporation and the Secretary of the Treasury, set forth in the
  following table in each respective fiscal year as specified therein, subject
  to the provisions of the preceding sentence that at such time as the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund reserve ratio equals or exceeds 1.25 percent no
  further amounts shall be paid to the Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury:
 `Fiscal year ending September 30
--Dollars in billions
1991
--$0.0
1992
--1.0
1993
--2.1
1994
--3.2
1995
--4.3
1996
--5.4
1997
--6.5
1998
--7.6
1999
--8.8
  `(iii) Cumulative additions to obligations outstanding of the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund for fiscal years 1991 through 1999 shall not
  exceed $24,000,000,000.'.
  `(iv) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the
  Treasury, without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary
  for payments as authorized by this Act.
  `(v) The Corporation is authorized to borrow from the Federal Home Loan
  Banks, with the concurrence of the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations, such funds as the Corporation deems necessary for the use
  of the Savings Association Insurance Fund, which borrowings shall be a
  direct liability of such Fund and shall be subject to the limitations in
  subsection (b) of section 15 of this Act. All such loans shall be made in
  accordance with section 11(k) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
  `(vi) The Savings Association Insurance Fund shall be available to the
  Corporation for the uses and purposes herein provided with respect to
  Savings Association Insurance Fund members. All amounts assessed Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members by the Corporation which do not include
  those required for the Financing Corporation or the Resolution Funding
  Corporation pursuant to the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, or for the FSLIC
  Resolution Fund pursuant to section 11A of this Act, shall be deposited
  into the Savings Association Insurance Fund.
  `(5)(A) Any provision of this Act forbidding the commingling of the Bank
  Insurance Fund with the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or requiring the
  separate maintenance of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund shall not--
  `(i) limit or impair the authority of the Corporation to use the same
  facilities and resources other than the Bank Insurance Fund, the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund, or the FSLIC Resolution Fund in the course
  of conducting supervisory, regulatory, conservatorship, receivership,
  or liquidation functions with respect to banks and savings associations,
  or to integrate such functions; or
  `(ii) limit or impair the Corporation's power to combine assets belonging
  to the estates of banks and savings associations for managerial purposes,
  or limit or impair the Corporation's power to dispose of such assets on
  an aggregate basis.
  `(B)(i) The Corporation shall keep a full and complete accounting of all
  costs and expenses associated with the use of any facilities and resources
  used in the course of functions specified in subparagraph (A)(i). The
  Corporation shall allocate any such costs and expenses incurred by
  the Corporation with respect to Bank Insurance Fund members to the Bank
  Insurance Fund, and shall allocate any such costs and expenses incurred by
  the Corporation with respect to Savings Association Insurance Fund members
  to the Savings Association Insurance Fund.
  `(ii) The Corporation shall keep a full and complete accounting of all
  costs and expenses associated with the management of any assets specified
  in subparagraph (A)(ii), and a full and complete accounting of all costs,
  expenses, and receipts associated with the disposition of such assets. The
  Corporation shall allocate any such costs, expenses, and receipts associated
  with assets belonging to Bank Insurance Fund members or to the estates
  of such members to the Bank Insurance Fund, and shall allocate any such
  costs, expenses, and receipts associated with assets belonging to Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members or to the estates of such members to
  the Savings Association Insurance Fund.'.
SEC. 212. FDIC RECEIVERSHIP POWERS.
  (a) BASIC AUTHORITIES- Section 11(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
  (12 U.S.C. 1821(c)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(c) CORPORATION AS RECEIVER OR CONSERVATOR-
  `(1) In general-
  `(A) AUTHORITY UNDER THIS SECTION- Notwithstanding any other provision
  of law, the Corporation is authorized to accept appointment and act as
  receiver or conservator for financial institutions in default and shall
  have the authorities specified in this section upon appointment as set out
  in subsection (d) or (e). As receiver or conservator, the Corporation shall
  have the authorities and duties described in paragraphs (2) through (12).
  `(B) AUTHORITY IN SPECIAL CASES- In addition to any powers otherwise
  conferred by this section, the Corporation as receiver or conservator shall
  have with respect to cases with respect to which the Federal Savings and
  Loan Insurance Corporation appointed a receiver or conservator prior to
  January 1, 1989, all powers and authorities that were or would have been
  available to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation immediately
  prior to the enactment of the FIRRE Act.
  `(2) GENERAL AUTHORITIES- The Corporation is authorized--
  `(A) to take over the assets of, operate the financial institution, and
  perform all functions of the financial institution in its own name;
  `(B) to exercise all the powers of the members, shareholders, directors,
  and officers of the financial institution and to conduct all business of
  the institution, including taking deposits;
  `(C) to take such action as may be necessary to put the financial institution
  in a sound and solvent condition;
  `(D) to conserve the assets of the financial institution;
  `(E) to merge the financial institution with another insured financial
  institution;
  `(F) to organize, in the case of a savings association, by application to
  the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations a new Federal Savings
  Association to take over such assets or such liabilities as the Corporation
  may deem appropriate;
  `(G) to organize, in the case of an insured bank, a bridge bank under
  subsection (i) or a new national bank under subsection (h);
  `(H) to transfer any assets or liabilities of the financial institution in
  default (including assets or liabilities associated with any trust business),
  such transfer to be effective without any further approval, assignment or
  consent with respect thereto, except that when the transferee is another
  financial institution, the transfer must be approved by the appropriate
  Federal banking agency for the acquiring institution;
  `(I) to place the financial institution in liquidation and to proceed to
  realize upon the assets of the financial institution, having due regard
  to the condition of credit in the locality;
  `(J) to determine claims under the provisions set forth under subsection (1);
  `(K) to exercise all powers and authorities specifically granted by the
  provisions of this Act and such incidental powers as shall be necessary
  to carry out the powers so granted; and
  `(L) to exercise any combination of the powers enumerated in subparagraphs
  (A) through (K),
whichever shall appear to be in the best interests of the financial
institution, its depositors, and the Corporation.
  `(3) PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS- The Corporation shall pay all valid credit
  obligations of the financial institution in accordance with this Act.
  `(4) CLAIMS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- In cases of liquidation, or other closing or winding up of
  the affairs of a closed financial institution, the Corporation shall promptly
  publish a notice to the financial institution's creditors to present their
  claims, with proof thereof, to the receiver by a date specified in the notice
  (at least 90 days after first publication). The notice shall be published
  again approximately one month and two months respectively after first
  publication. Claims filed after the specified date shall be disallowed, and
  such disallowance shall be final. The receiver shall mail a similar notice
  at the time of first publication to any creditor shown on the financial
  institution's books at the creditor's last address appearing thereon or
  upon discovery of the name and address of a claimant not appearing on the
  financial institution's books within 30 days of discovery.
  `(B) ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS- The Corporation shall allow any claim seasonably
  received and proved to its satisfaction. The receiver may wholly or partly
  disallow any creditor claim or claim of security, preference, or priority not
  so proved, and shall notify the claimant of the disallowance and the reason
  therefore. Mailing notice of the disallowance to the claimant's last address
  appearing on the financial institution's books or on the proof of claim
  shall be sufficient notice. Unless, within 30 days after notice is mailed,
  the claimant files a written objection to the disallowance, disallowance
  shall be final. Those claims to which an objection is properly and timely
  filed shall be decided in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1).
  `(C) PAYMENTS- The Corporation may pay creditor claims which are allowed
  by the receiver or approved by a final determination by the receiver
  in accordance with subsection (1), from time to time, in the receiver's
  discretion, to the extent funds are available, in such manner and amounts
  as are authorized under this Act.
  `(5) SUBROGATION- The Corporation shall pay to itself for its own account
  such portion of the amounts realized from any liquidation as it shall
  be entitled to receive on account of its subrogation to the claims of
  depositors, and it shall pay to depositors and other creditors the net
  amounts available for distribution to them.
  `(6) DIVIDENDS- The Corporation may, in its discretion, pay dividends on
  proved claims at any time, and no liability shall attach to the Corporation
  itself or as such receiver by reason of any such payment for failure to
  pay dividends to a claimant whose claim is not proved at the time of any
  such payment.
  `(7) STAYS- The Corporation may request a stay for a period of up to 45
  days after the appointment of the receiver as to any judicial action or
  proceeding to which the receiver or the financial institution in default
  is or may become a party. Upon petition, the court shall grant such stay
  as to all parties.
  `(8) REPUDIATION OF CONTRACTS-
  `(A) The Corporation is authorized in any case in which it is liquidating
  or otherwise closing or winding up the affairs of a closed financial
  institution to disaffirm or repudiate any contract or lease the performance
  of which the Corporation in its discretion considers to be burdensome
  and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which will promote the orderly
  administration of the financial institution's affairs.
  `(B) If the Corporation repudiates or disaffirms any contract other than as
  provided in subparagraph (C), (D), or (E), the claim for damages resulting
  from such repudiation or disaffirmance shall be limited to actual direct
  compensatory damages and there shall be no liability either on the part
  of the Corporation or on the part of the estate of the failed financial
  institution for any other damages, including punitive, exemplary, or
  consequential damages or similar damages, or damages for lost profits
  or opportunity, or damages for pain and suffering. A claim under this
  subparagraph is a claim against the estate of the financial institution
  to be paid in accordance with subsections (k) and (l), and shall be deemed
  to have arisen on the date of the Corporation's appointment as conservator
  or receiver.
  `(C) If the Corporation disaffirms or repudiates a lease under which the
  financial institution was the lessee, neither the Corporation nor the
  estate of the financial institution will incur any liability with respect
  to such lease, except that the lessor shall be entitled to the contractual
  rent for the period from the appointment of the receiver or conservator to
  the date the notice of disaffirmance or repudiation is mailed or effective
  and the lessor shall have a claim against the estate of the institution
  to be paid in accordance with subsections (k) and (l) of this section for
  any unpaid rent (but shall have no claims for damages under acceleration
  or other penalty provisions) due as of the date of the appointment of the
  receiver or conservator.
  `(D) If the Corporation repudiates any unexpired written lease of real
  property of the financial institution under which the institution is the
  lessor and the lessee is not in default, the lessee under such lease may
  treat the lease as terminated by such repudiation; or, in the alternative,
  the lessee may remain in possession of the leasehold interest for the balance
  of the term of the lease. If such lessee remains in possession under the
  provisions of this paragraph, he shall continue to pay the contractual
  rent, and may offset against the rent unpaid for the balance of the term
  after the date of the repudiation of the lease, any damages occurring after
  such date caused by the nonperformance of any obligation of the financial
  institution under the lease after such date, but the lessee does not have
  any rights against the estate on account of any damages arising after such
  date from the repudiation, other than such offset.
  `(E) If the Corporation repudiates a written contract of the financial
  institution for the sale of real property, which satisfies the provisions of
  section 13(e), under which the purchaser is in possession and not in default,
  such purchaser may treat the contract as terminated, or in the alternative,
  may remain in possession of such real property. If the purchaser remains in
  possession, he shall continue to make all payments due under the contract,
  but may offset against such payments any damages occurring after the date
  of the repudiation of the contract caused by the nonperformance of any
  obligation of the institution contained in the contract after such date,
  but the purchaser does not have any rights against the estate on account
  of any damages arising after such date from the repudiation, other than
  such offset; and the Corporation shall deliver title to the purchaser in
  accordance with the provisions of the contract, but is relieved of all other
  obligation to perform under the contract. Nothing herein is intended to limit
  the Corporation's right to assign such contract and sell the property subject
  to the contract and the provisions of this paragraph. If such an assignment
  and sale is consummated, the Corporation shall have no further liability.
  `(F) No person shall be prohibited from exercising any rights such person
  has to cause the liquidation of a securities contract, commodities contract
  or repurchase agreement with a financial institution in receivership or
  conservatorship after the appointment of the Corporation as receiver or
  conservator allow the avoidance of any legally valid security interest in
  the assets of the institution except where such an interest is taken in
  contemplation of the institution's insolvency or with the intent to hinder,
  delay, or defraud the institution or its creditors, and the Corporation
  shall have no authority to avoid such action except upon a showing of
  actual intent by such person to hinder, delay, or defraud the institution
  in receivership or conservatorship.
  `(G) Nothing in this paragraph is intended to allow the avoidance of any
  legally valid security interest in the assets of the institution except
  where such an interest is taken in contemplation of the institution's
  insolvency or with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud the institution
  or its creditors.
  `(H) Nothing in this paragraph is intended to affect the validity of
  or right to collect on any extensions of credit by the Corporation, a
  Federal Home Loan Bank, or a Federal Reserve Bank to the institution or
  any security interest in any assets of the institution securing any such
  extensions of credit.
  `(I) The Corporation shall determine whether or not to exercise the rights
  of repudiation under this paragraph within a reasonable period following
  its appointment as conservator or receiver.
  `(J) If, pending its determination whether or not to exercise the right or
  repudiation under this paragraph, the Corporation, without prejudice to its
  right of repudiation, accepts performance by the other party to a contract
  for services, the Corporation shall pay the other party under the terms of
  the contract for the services performed as an administrative expense of the
  conservatorship or receivership. Any claim of such other party for services
  performed prior to the Corporation's appointment as conservator or receiver
  shall be a claim against the estate of the financial institution to be paid
  in accordance with subsections (k) and (l) and shall be deemed to have arisen
  as of the date of the Corporation's appointment as conservator or receiver.
  `(9) ENFORCEMENT OF CONTRACTS- The Corporation may enforce any contract
  entered into by the financial institution notwithstanding any provision
  of the contract providing for termination, default, acceleration, exercise
  of rights upon, or by reason of insolvency or the appointment of receiver
  or conservator.
  `(10) ACCOUNTING- The Corporation shall keep an accounting of each
  receivership estate and conservatorship estate or other disposition of
  institutions in default in the manner which it deems in its discretion to be
  appropriate and make such accounting available, on an annual basis, to the
  shareholders of the financial institution, the Secretary of the Treasury,
  the Comptroller General, and the agency that appointed the Corporation as
  receiver or conservator, upon request.
  `(11) DISTRIBUTION AFTER PAYMENT OF ALL CLAIMS- In any case in which funds
  remain after all depositors, creditors, other claimants, and administrative
  expenses are paid, the Corporation shall distribute such funds to the
  financial institution's shareholders or members along with the accounting
  specified in paragraph (I).
  `(12) RECORDS- The Corporation may, any time 7 years after its appointment as
  receiver of a financial institution, destroy any records of such institution
  which the Corporation in its discretion deems to be unnecessary. The
  Corporation shall not destroy any records which may be needed for any
  criminal prosecution or civil or administrative proceeding.
  `(13) STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCIES- The Corporation is authorized to enter
  into contracts with State housing finance agencies for the sale of mortgage
  related assets of the financial institutions in default (including assets
  and liabilities associated with any trust business), such contracts to
  be effective in accordance with their terms without any further approval,
  assignment, or consent with respect thereto. In evaluating the disposition
  of such assets, the Corporation shall consider--
  `(A) the State housing finance authority's ability to acquire and service
  current, delinquent, and defaulted mortgage related assets;
  `(B) the State housing finance authority's ability to further national
  housing policies;
  `(C) the State housing finance authority's sensitivity to the impact of
  the sale of mortgage related assets upon State and local communities;
  `(D) the costs to the Federal Government associated with alternative
  ownership or dispositions of the mortgage related assets;
  `(E) the minimization of future guaranties which may be required of the
  Federal Government;
  `(F) the maximization of mortgage related asset values; and
  `(G) the utilization of institutions currently established in mortgage
  related asset market activities.
  `(14) STATUTES OF LIMITATION- Notwithstanding any contractual provisions
  to the contrary, the applicable statute of limitations with regard to any
  action brought by the Corporation as receiver or conservator shall be--
  `(A) the period provided for in sections 2415 and 2416 of title 28, United
  States Code,
  `(B) the applicable State statute of limitations, or
  `(C) the expiration of 3 years following the date of the appointment of
  the Corporation as receiver or conservator,
whichever provides for the longest limitations period.'.
  (b) RECEIVER OR CONSERVATOR OF FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTION- Section 11(d)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(d)) is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(d) CORPORATION AS RECEIVER OR CONSERVATOR OF FEDERAL FINANCIAL
  INSTITUTIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Whenever a receiver or conservator is appointed for an
  insured Federal or District financial institution by the authority having
  supervision of such financial institution for the purpose of liquidation
  or winding up its affairs, the Corporation shall be appointed, and shall
  accept appointment, as such receiver or conservator. The Corporation may,
  at the discretion of the supervisory authority, be appointed conservator
  not for the purpose of liquidation or winding up the financial institution's
  affairs, and the Corporation may accept such appointment.
  `(2) POWERS AND DUTIES- As a receiver or conservator appointed under this
  subsection, the Corporation shall have all powers and duties set forth
  in this Act, and such other powers and duties possessed by receivers and
  conservators for Federal financial institutions under any other provisions
  of law, in addition to and not in derogation of the powers conferred in
  this Act.
  `(3) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER AGENCIES- As such receiver or conservator,
  the Corporation shall not be subject to the direction or supervision of
  any other agency or department in the exercise of its rights, powers,
  and privileges as receiver or conservator. If the financial institution
  continues to operate in conservatorship, the institution shall remain
  subject to the supervision of the appropriate Federal banking agency.'.
  (c) CORPORATION AS RECEIVER OR CONSERVATOR OF STATE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS-
  Section 11(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(e))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(e) CORPORATION AS RECEIVER OR CONSERVATOR OF STATE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- (A) Whenever the authority having supervision of any insured
  State financial institution (except a District financial institution)
  appoints a receiver or conservator for such State financial institution
  and tenders appointment to the Corporation, the Corporation may accept
  appointment as receiver or conservator.
  `(B) As a receiver or conservator appointed under this subsection, the
  Corporation shall possess all the rights, powers, and privileges granted
  by State law to a receiver or conservator of a State financial institution
  of any kind, in addition to and not in derogation of the powers conferred
  upon the Corporation under subsection (c).
  `(C) As such receiver or conservator, the Corporation shall not be subject
  to the direction or supervision of any other agency or Department, State
  or Federal, in the exercise of its rights, powers, and privileges. If
  the financial institution continues to operate in conservatorship, the
  institution shall remain subject to the supervision of the appropriate
  Federal banking agency.
  `(2) APPOINTMENT BY CHAIRMAN OF THE OFFICE OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS-
  Whenever the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations appoints a
  conservator or receiver under the provisions of section 5(d)(2)(C) of the
  Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 for the purpose of liquidation or winding up
  a savings association's affairs, the Resolution Trust Corporation shall be
  appointed for the period from the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act until
  3 years thereafter, and the Corporation shall be appointed thereafter. The
  Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation as appropriate, may, at the
  discretion of the supervisory authority, be appointed conservator not for
  the purpose of liquidation or winding up the savings association's affairs,
  and the Corporation may accept such appointment.
  `(3) POWER AND JURISDICTION- The Corporation shall have power and
  jurisdiction to appoint itself as sole conservator or receiver of a State
  savings association if the Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation
  as appropriate determines--
  `(A) that--
  `(i) a conservator, receiver, or other legal custodian has been or is
  hereafter appointed for an insured State other than by the Chairman of the
  Office of Savings Associations and that the appointment of such conservator,
  receiver, or custodian, or any combination thereof, has been outstanding
  for a period of at least 15 consecutive days, and that one or more of
  the depositors in such institution is unable to obtain a withdrawal of a
  deposit, in whole or in part; or
  `(ii) an insured State financial institution has been closed by or under
  the laws of any State; and
  `(B) that one or more of the grounds specified in paragraph (2)(A) of
  section 5(d) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 existed with respect to
  such financial institution at the time a conservator, receiver, or other
  legal custodian was appointed, or at the time such financial institution
  was closed, or exists thereafter during the appointment of the conservator,
  receiver, or other legal custodian or while the financial institution
  is closed.
  `(4) AUTHORITY IN CERTAIN CASES- In any case where the Corporation is
  appointed conservator or receiver of an insured State financial institution--
  `(A) the provisions of this Act shall be applicable in the same manner
  and to the same extent as if such institution were a Federal institution
  with respect to which the Corporation had been appointed conservator or
  receiver; and
  `(B) the Corporation shall have authority to liquidate such institution
  in an orderly manner or to make such other disposition of the matter as
  it deems to be in the best interests of the institution, its depositors,
  and the Corporation.
  `(5) CONSTRUCTION OF SUBSECTION- The authority conferred by paragraphs (2)
  and (3) shall be in addition to, and not a limitation upon, appointment
  under paragraph (1).'.
  (d) PAYMENT OF INSURED DEPOSITS- Section 11(f) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(f)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(f) PAYMENT OF INSURED DEPOSITS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In cases of the liquidation or other closing or winding up
  of the affairs of an insured financial institution in default or an insured
  branch of a foreign bank in default, payment of the insured deposits in such
  financial institution or branch shall be made by the Corporation as soon as
  possible, subject to the provisions of subsection (g) of this section either
  by cash or by making available to each depositor a transferred deposit in
  a new financial institution in the same community or in another insured
  financial institution in an amount equal to the insured deposit of such
  depositor. All payments made pursuant to this section on account of a Bank
  Insurance Fund member shall be made only from the Bank Insurance Fund,
  and all payments made pursuant to this section on account of a Savings
  Association Insurance Fund member shall be made only from the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund.
  `(2) PROOF OF CLAIMS- The Corporation, in its discretion, may require
  proof of claims to be filed and may approve or reject such claims. In the
  case of a disputed claim, the Corporation shall have the power to resolve
  such disputed claims according to rules and regulations established by the
  Corporation for that purpose. Final determination made by the Corporation
  shall be reviewable by the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
  Circuit or the Court of Appeals for the circuit where the financial
  institution is located and shall be upheld unless found to be arbitrary
  or capricious. Any request for review of a final determination by the
  Corporation shall be filed with the appropriate Circuit Court of Appeals not
  later than 60 days after such determination is ordered. In the absence of
  rules and regulations, the Corporation may require the final determination
  of a court of competent jurisdiction before paying such claim.'.
  (e) SUBROGATION- Section 11(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1821(g)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(g) SUBROGATION- Notwithstanding any other provision of State law, the
  Corporation, upon the payment to any depositor as provided in subsection
  (f) of this section, or the assumption of any deposit by another insured
  financial institution pursuant to section 11 or section 13, shall be
  subrogated to all rights of the depositor against the financial institution
  or branch to the extent of such payment or assumption. Such subrogation
  shall include the right on the part of the Corporation to receive the same
  dividends from the proceeds of the assets of such financial institution or
  branch and recoveries on account of stockholders' liability as would have
  been payable to the depositor on a claim for the insured deposit, but such
  depositor shall retain such claim for any uninsured or unassumed portion
  of the deposit. With respect to any bank which closes after May 25, 1938,
  the Corporation shall waive, in favor only of any person against whom
  stockholders' individual liability may be asserted, any claim on account
  of such liability in excess of the liability, if any, to the bank or its
  creditors, for the amount unpaid upon his stock in such bank; but any such
  waiver shall be effected in such manner and on such terms and conditions as
  will not increase recoveries or dividends on account of claims to which the
  Corporation is not subrogated. If the Corporation is not appointed pursuant
  to subsection (e)(2), or determines not to invoke the authority conferred
  in subsection (e)(3), the rights of depositors and other creditors of any
  State financial institution shall be determined in accordance with the
  applicable provisions of State law.'.
  (f) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 11(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(h)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `closed bank' wherever it appears and inserting `financial
  institution in default';
  (2) in paragraph (1), by striking `closing of an insured bank' and inserting
  `default of an insured bank'; and
  (3) in paragraph (4), by striking `closed insured bank' and inserting
  `insured bank in default'.
SEC. 213. BRIDGE BANKS.
  Section 11(i) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(i))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(i) Bridge Banks-
  (1) Organization-
  `(A) PURPOSE- When one or more insured banks are in default or in danger
  of default, the Corporation may, in its discretion, organize a bridge bank
  or banks with respect thereto and upon the granting of a charter to such
  bridge bank, the bridge bank may--
  `(i) assume such deposits of such insured bank or banks that is or are in
  default or in danger of default as the Corporation may, in its discretion,
  determine to be appropriate, except that if any insured deposits of a bank
  are assumed, all insured deposits of that bank shall be assumed;
  `(ii) assume such other liabilities (including liabilities associated with
  any trust business) of such insured financial institution or institutions
  that is or are in default or in danger of default as the Corporation may,
  in its discretion, determine to be appropriate;
  `(iii) purchase such assets (including assets associated with any trust
  business) of such insured financial institution or institutions that is
  or are in default or in danger of default as the Corporation may, in its
  discretion, determine to be appropriate; and
  `(iv) perform any other temporary function which the Corporation may,
  in its discretion, prescribe in accordance with this Act.
  `(B) ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION- The articles of association and organization
  certificate of a bridge bank as approved by the Corporation shall be
  executed by three representatives designated by the Corporation.
  `(C) NATIONAL BANK- A bridge bank shall be organized as a national bank.
  `(D) INTERIM DIRECTORS- A bridge bank shall have an interim board of
  directors consisting of not fewer than 5 nor more than 10 members appointed
  by the Corporation.
  `(2) Chartering-
  `(A) CONDITIONS- A bridge bank may be chartered by the Comptroller of the
  Currency as a national bank only if the Board of Directors determines that--
  `(i) the amount which is reasonably necessary to operate such bridge bank
  will not exceed the amount which is reasonably necessary to save the cost
  of liquidating, including paying the insured accounts of, one or more
  insured banks in default or in danger of default with respect to which
  the bridge bank is chartered;
  `(ii) the continued operation of such insured bank or banks in default or
  in danger of default with respect to which the bridge bank is chartered
  is essential to provide adequate banking services in the community where
  each such bank in default or in danger of default is located; or
  `(iii) the continued operation of such insured bank or banks in default
  or in danger of default with respect to which the bridge bank is chartered
  is in the best interest of the depositors of such bank or banks in default
  or in danger of default or the public.
  `(B) INSURED NATIONAL BANK- A bridge bank shall be an insured bank from
  the time it is chartered as a national bank.
  `(C) BRIDGE BANK TREATED AS BEING IN DEFAULT FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES- A bridge
  bank shall be treated as an insured bank in default at such times and for
  such purposes as the Corporation may, in its discretion, determine.
  `(D) MANAGEMENT- A bridge bank, upon the granting of its charter, shall
  be under the management of a board of directors consisting of not fewer
  than 5 nor more than 10 members appointed by the Corporation.
  `(E) BYLAWS- The board of directors of a bridge bank shall adopt such
  bylaws as may be approved by the Corporation.
  `(3) TRANSFER OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Upon the granting of a charter to a bridge bank pursuant
  to this subsection, the Corporation, as receiver, or any other receiver
  appointed with respect to any insured financial institution in default
  with respect to which the bridge bank is chartered may transfer any assets
  and liabilities of such financial institution in default to the bridge
  bank in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection. Thereafter, the
  Corporation, as receiver, or any other receiver appointed with respect
  to an insured financial institution in default may transfer any assets
  and liabilities of such insured financial institution in default as the
  Corporation may, in its discretion, determine to be appropriate in accordance
  with paragraph (1) of this subsection. For purposes of this paragraph, the
  trust business, including fiduciary appointments, of any insured financial
  institution in default is included among its assets and liabilities. The
  transfer of any assets or liabilities, including those associated with any
  trust business, of an insured financial institution in default transferred
  to a bridge bank shall be effective without any further approval under
  Federal or State law, assignment, or consent with respect thereto.
  `(B) SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING CONTINUING OPERATIONS- It is the sense of
  the Congress that, in order to prevent unnecessary hardship or losses to
  the customers of any insured financial institution in default with respect
  to which a bridge bank is chartered, especially creditworthy farmers,
  small businesses, and households, the Corporation should attempt to--
  `(i) continue to honor commitments made by the financial institution in
  default to creditworthy customers, and
  `(ii) not interrupt or terminate adequately secured loans which are
  transferred under subparagraph (A) and are being repaid by the debtor in
  accordance with the terms of the loan instrument.
  `(4) POWERS OF BRIDGE BANKS- Each bridge bank chartered under this subsection
  shall have all corporate powers of, and be subject to the same provisions
  of law as, a national bank, except that--
  `(A) the Corporation may--
  `(i) remove the interim directors and directors of a bridge bank;
  `(ii) fix the compensation of members of the interim board of directors
  and the board of directors and senior management, as determined by the
  Corporation in its discretion, of a bridge bank; and
  `(iii) waive any requirement established under section 5145, 5146, 5147,
  5148, or 5149 of the Revised Statutes (relating to directors of national
  banks) or section 31 of the Banking Act of 1933 which would otherwise
  be applicable with respect to directors of a bridge bank by operation of
  paragraph (2)(B);
  `(B) the Corporation may indemnify the representatives for purposes of
  paragraph (1)(B) and the interim directors, directors, officers, employees,
  and agents of a bridge bank on such terms as the Corporation determines
  to be appropriate;
  `(C) no requirement under section 5138 of the Revised Statutes or any
  other provision of law relating to the capital of a national bank shall
  apply with respect to a bridge bank;
  `(D) the Comptroller of the Currency may establish a limitation on the
  extent to which any person may become indebted to a bridge bank without
  regard to the amount of the bridge bank's capital or surplus;
  `(E)(i) the board of directors of a bridge bank shall elect a chairperson
  who may also serve in the position of chief executive officer, except that
  such person shall not serve either as chairperson or as chief executive
  officer without the prior approval of the Corporation;
  `(ii) the board of directors of a bridge bank may appoint a chief executive
  officer who is not also the chairperson, except that such person shall
  not serve as chief executive officer without the prior approval of the
  Corporation;
  `(F) a bridge bank shall not be required to purchase stock of any Federal
  Reserve bank;
  `(G) the Comptroller of the Currency shall waive any requirement for
  a fidelity bond with respect to a bridge bank at the request of the
  Corporation;
  `(H) any action to which a bridge bank becomes a party by virtue of its
  acquisition of any assets or assumption of any liabilities of a financial
  institution in default shall be stayed from further proceedings for a
  period of up to 45 days at the request of the bridge bank;
  `(I) no agreement which tends to diminish or defeat the right, title or
  interest of a bridge bank in any asset of an insured financial institution
  in default acquired by it shall be valid against the bridge bank unless
  such agreement--
  `(i) shall be in writing,
  `(ii) shall have been executed by such insured financial institution in
  default and the person or persons claiming an adverse interest thereunder,
  including the obligor, contemporaneously with the acquisition of the
  asset by such insured financial institution in default or if the financial
  institution is the borrower under such agreement, the agreement was executed
  prior to or contemporaneously with such borrowing,
  `(iii) shall have been approved by the board of directors of such insured
  financial institution in default or its loan committee, which approval
  shall be reflected in the minutes of said board or committee, and
  `(iv) shall have been, continuously from the time of its execution, an
  official record of such insured financial institution in default; and
  `(J) except with the prior approval of the Corporation, a bridge bank may
  not, in any transaction or series of transactions, issue capital stock
  or be a party to any merger, consolidation, disposition of assets or
  liabilities, sale or exchange of capital stock, or similar transaction,
  or change its charter.
  `(5) CAPITAL-
  `(A) NO CAPITAL REQUIRED- The Corporation shall not be required to purchase
  any capital stock of a bridge bank.
  `(B) OPERATING FUNDS IN LIEU OF CAPITAL- Upon the organization of a bridge
  bank, and thereafter, as the Board of Directors may, in its discretion,
  determine to be necessary or advisable, the Corporation may make available
  to the bridge bank, upon such terms and conditions and in such form and
  amounts as the Corporation may in its discretion determine, funds for the
  operation of the bridge bank in lieu of capital.
  `(C) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CAPITAL STOCK- Whenever the Board of Directors
  determines it is advisable to do so, the Corporation shall cause capital
  stock of a bridge bank to be issued and offered for sale in such amounts
  and on such terms and conditions as the Corporation may, in its discretion,
  determine.
  `(6) NO FEDERAL STATUS-
  `(A) AGENCY STATUS- A bridge bank is not an agency, establishment, or
  instrumentality of the United States.
  `(B) EMPLOYEE STATUS- Representatives for purposes of paragraph (1)(B),
  interim directors, directors, officers, employees, or agents of a bridge
  bank are not, solely by virtue of service in any such capacity, officers
  or employees of the United States. Any employee of the Corporation or of
  any Federal instrumentality who serves at the request of the Corporation
  as a representative for purposes of paragraph (1)(B), interim director,
  director, officer, employee, or agent of a bridge bank shall not--
  `(i) solely by virtue of service in any such capacity lose any existing
  status as an officer or employee of the United States for purposes of
  title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law, or
  `(ii) receive any salary or benefits for service in any such capacity
  with respect to a bridge bank in addition to such salary or benefits
  as are obtained through employment with the Corporation or such Federal
  instrumentality.
  `(7) ACQUISITION-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The responsible agency shall notify the Attorney General
  of any transaction involving the merger or sale of a bridge bank requiring
  approval under section 13(c) and if a report on competitive factors is
  requested within 10 days, such transaction may not be consummated before
  the fifth calendar day after the date of approval by the responsible agency
  with respect thereto. If the responsible agency has found that it must
  act immediately to prevent the probable failure of one of the financial
  institutions involved, the preceding sentence does not apply and the
  transaction may be consummated immediately upon approval by the agency.
  `(B) BY OUT-OF-STATE HOLDING COMPANY- Any financial institution, including
  an out-of-State financial institution, or any out-of-State financial
  institution holding company may acquire and retain the capital stock or
  assets of, or otherwise acquire and retain a bridge bank if the bridge
  bank at any time had assets aggregating $500,000,000 or more, as determined
  by the Corporation on the basis of the bridge bank's reports of condition
  or on the basis of the last available reports of condition of any insured
  financial institution in default, which institution has been acquired, or
  whose assets have been acquired, by the bridge bank. The acquiring entity
  may acquire the bridge bank only in the same manner and to the same extent
  as such entity may acquire an insured bank in default under section 13(f)(2).
  `(8) CORPORATE EXISTENCE OF BRIDGE BANK- Subject to paragraphs (9) and
  (10) of this subsection, the corporate existence of a bridge bank shall
  terminate at the end of the 2-year period following the date it was
  granted a charter. The Board of directors may, in its discretion, extend
  the corporate existence of the bridge bank for 3 additional one-year periods.
  `(9) TERMINATION OF BRIDGE BANK STATUS- A bridge bank shall terminate its
  status as such upon the earliest to occur of the following--
  `(A) the merger or consolidation of the bridge bank with a financial
  institution that is not a bridge bank. In connection with such a transaction,
  the bridge bank may request conversion of its charter to that of a financial
  institution that is not a bridge bank;
  `(B) the sale of all or substantially all of the capital stock of the
  bridge bank to an entity other than the Corporation and other than another
  bridge bank;
  `(C) the assumption of all or substantially all of the deposits and other
  liabilities of the bridge bank by a financial institution holding company
  or a financial institution that is not a bridge bank, or the acquisition of
  all or substantially all of the assets of the bridge bank by a financial
  institution holding company, a financial institution that is not a bridge
  bank, or other entity as permitted under applicable law;
  `(D) the dissolution of the bridge bank by the Corporation in accordance
  with paragraph (10) of this subsection prior to the initial two-year period
  of corporate existence of the bridge bank and any extension thereof in
  accordance with paragraph (8) of this subsection; and
  `(E) the expiration of the initial 2-year period of corporate existence
  of the bridge bank and any extension thereof in accordance with paragraph
  (9) of this subsection.
  `(10) DISSOLUTION OF BRIDGE BANK-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of State or Federal
  law--
  `(i) the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, dissolve a bridge
  bank in accordance with this paragraph at any time during the corporate
  existence of a bridge bank if the Board of Directors determines that the
  amount which is reasonably necessary to dissolve the bridge bank will not
  exceed the amount which is reasonably necessary to either continue operation
  of the bridge bank or effect a transaction with respect to the bridge bank
  as contemplated in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (9);
  `(ii) the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, commence such
  dissolution proceedings in accordance with this paragraph with respect to a
  bridge bank as the Board of Directors determines to be necessary following
  the consummation of a transaction contemplated in subparagraph (B) or (C)
  of paragraph (9); and
  `(iii) the Board of Directors shall commence dissolution proceedings in
  accordance with this paragraph upon the expiration of the period of corporate
  existence of a bridge bank as provided in paragraph (8) of this subsection.
  `(B) PROCEDURES- The Comptroller of the Currency shall appoint the
  Corporation receiver for a bridge bank upon certification by the Board of
  Directors to the Comptroller of the Currency of its determination to dissolve
  the bridge bank. The Corporation as such receiver shall wind up the affairs
  of the bridge bank in conformity with the provisions of law relating to
  the liquidation of closed national banks. With respect to any such bridge
  bank, the Corporation as such receiver shall have all the rights, powers,
  and privileges now possessed or hereafter granted by law to a receiver of
  any insured financial institution and notwithstanding any other provision of
  law in the exercise of such rights, powers, and privileges the Corporation
  shall not be subject to the direction or supervision of any State agency
  or other Federal agency.
  `(11) Miscellaneous-
  `(A) SINGLE STATE OF OPERATION- Each bridge bank established under this
  subsection may operate branches in only one State.
  `(B) MULTIPLE BRIDGE BANKS- Subject to paragraph (1)(A)(i), the Corporation
  may, in the Corporation's discretion, organize 2 or more bridge banks under
  this subsection to assume any deposits of, assume any other liabilities of,
  and purchase any assets of a single financial institution in default.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 11(j) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(j)) is amended by striking `closed bank' and inserting
  `financial institution in default'.
SEC. 214. VALUATION OF CLAIMS AND REVIEW.
  Section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(k) Valuation of Claims Against Financial Institutions in Default-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other State or Federal law, and
  regardless of the method which the Corporation determines to utilize with
  respect to an insured financial institution in default or in danger of
  default (other than a nonliquidating conservatorship), including but not
  limited to transactions authorized under subsection (i) and under section
  13(c)(2)(A), this subsection shall govern the rights of the creditors
  (other than insured depositors) of such financial institution.
  `(2) MAXIMUM LIABILITY- The maximum liability of the Corporation, acting
  as receiver or in any other capacity, to any person having a claim
  against the estate of an insured financial institution in default shall
  equal the amount such claimant would have received from the estate of
  the financial institution if the Corporation had liquidated such estate
  without exercising its authority under subsection (i) of this section or
  section 13. In addition, such maximum liability shall include the amount
  the Corporation as receiver actually realizes as a premium reflecting the
  value of the institution as a going concern. In the case of an insured
  financial institution which the Corporation elects to operate, the point
  in time for determining what such claimant will receive from the estate
  of the financial institution had the Corporation liquidated such estate
  shall be the date the receiver ceases operating the financial institution,
  and begins to wind up the affairs of the financial institution, and for
  purposes of this paragraph only, the Corporation shall not be liable to any
  such claimant should the estate of the financial institution be diminished
  from the time the Corporation begins operating the financial institution
  to the time the Corporation ceases operating the financial institution
  and begins to wind up the affairs of the financial institution, absent a
  finding of bad faith on the part of the Corporation.
  `(3) Additional payments authorized-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Corporation may, in its discretion and in the interests
  of minimizing its losses, use its own resources to make additional payments
  or credit additional amounts to or with respect to or for the account of any
  claimant or category of claimants. The Corporation shall not be obligated,
  as a result of having made any such payment or credited any such amount
  to or with respect to or for the account of any claimant or category of
  claimants, to make payments to any other claimant or category or claimants.
  `(B) SOURCE OF FUNDS- If the financial institution in default is a Bank
  Insurance Fund member, the Corporation may only make such payments out of
  funds held in the Bank Insurance Fund. If the financial institution in
  default is a Savings Association Insurance Fund member, the Corporation
  may only make such payments out of funds held in the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund.
  `(C) MANNER OF PAYMENT- The Corporation may make the payments or credit the
  amounts specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) directly to the claimants or
  may make such payments or credit such amounts to an open insured financial
  institution to induce the open insured financial institution to accept
  liability for such claims.
  `(l) Rulemaking and Claims Determination Authorized-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall have the exclusive power to make rules
  and regulations for the conduct of conservatorships and of receiverships
  in which it is appointed conservator or receiver and the Corporation may,
  by regulation or order, provide for the exercise of functions by members
  or stockholders, directors, or officers of a financial institution during
  conservatorship or receivership. The Corporation shall also have the
  power to determine claims in accordance with rules and regulations it
  shall prescribe and subject to judicial review as herein provided.
  `(2) RULES AND REGULATIONS; REVIEW- The authority to determine claims shall
  only be exercised after the Corporation has established rules or regulations
  governing the processing of claims, the accounting of estate funds, and the
  distributing of residual funds to shareholders. Final determinations made
  by the Corporation with respect to claims asserted against the estate of a
  financial institution shall be reviewable by the Court of Appeals for the
  District of Columbia Circuit or the Court of Appeals for the circuit where
  the financial institution is located and shall be upheld unless found to be
  arbitrary or capricious. No court shall have jurisdiction over any claim or
  action seeking payment from, or a determination of rights with respect to,
  the assets of any financial institution for which the Corporation has been
  appointed receiver or conservator, including assets which the Corporation
  may acquire from itself as such receiver or conservator, or with respect
  to any act or omission of the institution or the Corporation as receiver
  or conservator except as set out in this paragraph and paragraph (3) of
  this subsection, unless the Corporation, under regulations prescribed by
  the Corporation has taken final agency action to determine or resolve the
  claim or action.
  `(3) ACTIONS IN THE ABSENCE OF RULES AND REGULATIONS- In the absence of
  rules and regulations established by the Corporation for the resolution
  of claims against the estate of the financial institution, any action or
  proceeding against a financial institution for which the Corporation has
  been appointed receiver, or against the Corporation as receiver of such
  financial institution, shall be brought in the district or territorial
  court of the United States held within the district in which that financial
  institution's principal place of business is located, or, in the event
  any State, county, or municipal court has jurisdiction over such an action
  or proceeding, in such court in the county or city in which the financial
  institution's principal place of business is located.
  `(4) AGREEMENTS AGAINST INTEREST- No agreement which does not meet the
  requirements set forth in section 13(e) shall form the basis of, or
  substantially comprise, a claim against the Corporation or the estate of
  the financial institution in default.
  `(m) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Except as provided in this section, no court may take
  any action, except at the request of the Board of Directors by regulation
  or order, to restrain or affect the exercise of powers or functions of
  the Corporation as a conservator or receiver.'.
  `(n) LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION-
  `(1) LIABILITY- Notwithstanding any provision of State law, a director
  or officer of an insured financial institution may be held personally
  liable for monetary damages in any civil action by, on behalf of, or at
  the request or direction of the Corporation, which action is prosecuted
  wholly or partially for the benefit of the Corporation--
  `(A) acting as receiver or conservator of that insured financial institution,
  `(B) acting based upon a suit, claim, or cause of action purchased from,
  assigned by, or otherwise conveyed by such receiver or conservator, or
  `(C) acting based upon a suit, claim, or cause of action purchased from,
  assigned by, or otherwise conveyed in whole or in part by an insured
  financial institution or its affiliate in connection with assistance
  provided under section 13,
for any cause of action available at common law, including, but not limited
to, negligence, gross negligence, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary
duty, breach of contract, conversion, fraud, waste of corporate assets,
and violations of statutes.
  `(2) INDEMNIFICATION- No director or officer of an insured financial
  institution that is closed or that has been assisted pursuant to section
  13 of the Act shall--
  `(A) be indemnified by such insured financial institution, or by its
  receivership estate, or by a successor to any or all of its business,
  or by the Corporation for any settlement or judgment, or
  `(B) be indemnified for any funds expended in defending any action,
unless a court of competent jurisdiction has first entered a final order in
which the subject director or officer has received a favorable disposition
of the case on the merits, and then only to the extent that the director or
officer would have been entitled to indemnification absent the closing of
or assistance to the insured financial institution.
  `(o) Procedures Applicable to Certain Claims-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In any proceeding related to any claim acquired under
  section 11 or 13 of this Act against an insured financial institution's
  director, officer, employee, agent, attorney, accountant, appraiser,
  or any other party employed by or providing services to an insured
  financial institution, any suit, claim, or cause of action brought by the
  Corporation shall have priority over any such suit, claim, or cause of
  action asserted by depositors, creditors, or shareholders of the insured
  financial institution, except for claims of Federal agencies as provided
  in section 6321 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and section 3713
  of title 31, United States Code. This priority shall apply to both the
  prosecution of any suit, claim, or cause of action, and to the execution
  of any subsequent judgments resulting from such suit.
  `(2) Defenses-
  `(A) Alleged acts, errors, or omissions of the Corporation, or any other
  appropriate Federal banking agency, shall in no way provide a defense to
  nor in any way diminish, directly or indirectly, any such suit, claim,
  or cause of action brought under this section, whether such acts, errors,
  or omissions are raised in a separate lawsuit, counterclaim, affirmative
  defense, setoff, recoupment, or in any other manner. Evidence pertaining
  to such acts, errors, or omissions shall not be admissible for any purpose
  in any action brought by the Corporation under this section.
  `(B) Alleged acts, errors, or omissions of the Corporation in connection
  with the liquidation, sale, disposal or other handling of any assets or
  claims acquired pursuant to section 11 or 13 of this Act shall in no way
  provide a defense to, nor in any way diminish, directly or indirectly, any
  suit, claim, or cause of action brought under this section, whether such
  acts, errors, or omissions are raised in a separate lawsuit, counterclaim,
  affirmative defense, setoff, recoupment, or in any other manner. Evidence
  pertaining to such alleged acts, errors, or omissions shall not be admissible
  for any purpose in any action brought by the Corporation under this section.
  `(3) DEFALCATION- A finding by a Federal bankruptcy or district court that
  a director or an officer of an insured financial institution has breached
  any of his or her fiduciary duties to that institution shall constitute
  a defalcation while acting in a fiduciary capacity within the meaning of
  section 523(a)(4) of title 11, United States Code. The liability arising
  from such breach shall constitute a debt not dischargeable in bankruptcy.
  `(4) DAMAGES- Recoverable damages determined to result from the improvident
  or otherwise improper use or investment of an insured financial institution
  assets shall include, but not be limited to, principal losses plus
  appropriate interest.
  `(p) COMPUTATION OF LIMITATIONS- Notwithstanding any other provision
  of law, for the purpose of computing whether the applicable limitations
  period has expired prior to the Corporation's acquisition of the claim,
  in addition to the time excluded under any other applicable tolling rules,
  there shall be excluded--
  `(1) as to any action against a director or officer, all periods during
  which any culpable director or officer continues in such capacity;
  `(2) as to any action against an accountant, attorney, appraiser, or
  other person providing services to the insured financial institution,
  all periods during which such party continues to provide services to the
  insured institution.
If a claim is not already time-barred at the time the Corporation acquires it,
the limitations periods set forth in sections 2415 and 2416 of title 28, United
States Code, shall start anew at the time the Corporation acquires the claim.
  `(q) TIME FOR FILING NOTICE OF APPEAL- The notice of any appeal of any
  order, whether interlocutory or final, entered in any case brought by
  the Corporation against an insured institution's officers and directors,
  attorneys, accountants, or other agents shall be filed within 10 days of
  the entry of that order. Hearing of the appeal shall be within 30 days
  of the filing of the notice. The appeal will be decided within 90 days of
  the filing of the notice.
  `(r) SCHEDULING- Consistent with section 1647 of title 28, United States
  Code, the courts of the United States shall expedite the consideration
  of any case brought by the Corporation against an insured institution's
  officers and directors, attorneys, accountants, or other agents. As far
  as practicable, the courts will give such cases priority on their dockets.
  `(s) JUDICIAL DISCRETION- Any judge may modify the schedule and
  limitations of subsections (q) and (r) as applied to a specific case,
  based on a specific finding that the ends of justice served by making such
  a modification outweigh the best interest of the public in having the case
  resolved expeditiously.'.
SEC. 215. FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND.
  The Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by inserting after section
  11 the following:
`SEC. 11A. FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND.
  `(a) Established-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- There is established a separate fund to be designated as
  the FSLIC Resolution Fund which shall be managed by the Corporation and
  separately maintained and not commingled.
  `(2) TRANSFER OF FSLIC ASSETS AND LIABILITIES- On the date of the dissolution
  of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation in accordance with
  section 401 of the FIRRE Act, all reserves and all other assets of any kind,
  and debts, obligations, contracts and other liabilities of the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, matured or unmatured, accrued,
  absolute, contingent, or otherwise shall be transferred in their entirety
  to the FSLIC Resolution Fund. Such liabilities transferred to the FSLIC
  Resolution Fund shall not include liabilities specifically transferred
  pursuant to section 21A(o) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
  `(3) SEPARATE HOLDING- Such reserves, assets, debts, obligations, contracts,
  or other liabilities as are so transferred shall be exclusive assets
  and liabilities of the FSLIC Resolution Fund and not of the Corporation
  and shall not be consolidated with the assets and liabilities of the Bank
  Insurance Fund, the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or the Corporation
  for accounting or reporting or any other purpose.
  `(b) SOURCE OF FUNDS- The FSLIC Resolution Fund shall be funded from the
  following sources in the listed priority to the extent funds are needed:
  `(1) income earned on assets of the FSLIC Resolution Fund;
  `(2) the proceeds of the resolution of insolvent savings associations
  which were resolved by action of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
  Corporation prior to January 1, 1989, to the extent such funds are not
  required by the Resolution Funding Corporation pursuant to section 21B of
  the Federal Home Loan Bank Act or the Financing Corporation pursuant to
  section 21 of such Act;
  `(3) proceeds from borrowings by the Financing Corporation pursuant to
  section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act; and
  `(4) all amounts assessed Savings Association Insurance Fund members
  by the Corporation pursuant to section 7 from the date of enactment of
  the FIRRE Act, and not required by the Financing Corporation pursuant
  to section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, or for the Resolution
  Funding Corporation pursuant to section 21B of the Federal Home Loan Bank
  Act, which shall be covered into the FSLIC Resolution Fund until December
  31, 1991. Miscellaneous income from assets of the Federal Savings and
  Loan Insurance Corporation that were transferred to the FSLIC Resolution
  Fund in accordance with this section shall be transferred to the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund to the extent needed for administrative expenses.
  `(c) TREASURY BACKUP- In the event that all the above funds are insufficient
  to satisfy the liabilities of the FSLIC Resolution Fund, the Secretary
  of the Treasury shall, subject to the availability of appropriations,
  provide such excess funds determined by the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation and the Secretary to be necessary for FSLIC Resolution Fund
  purposes. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the
  Treasury, without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary
  to carry out the provisions of this section.
  `(d) FDIC POWERS- In order to manage the assets and liabilities transferred
  to the FSLIC Resolution Fund, the Corporation may exercise the authorities
  granted under this Act, and those authorities exercised by the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation immediately prior to the enactment
  of the FIRRE Act, including but not limited to, authority to collect
  claims and indebtedness, to enforce liabilities and obligations, whether
  contingent or otherwise, to defend lawsuits and to exercise the incidental
  powers and authorities currently provided to the Federal Savings and Loan
  Insurance Corporation.
  `(e) LEGAL PROCEEDINGS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
  judgment resulting from civil action, suit, or proceeding to which the
  Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation was a party prior to its
  dissolution hereunder, or which is initiated against the Corporation (or
  its assets) with respect to Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
  actions or inactions or with respect to FSLIC Resolution Fund activities,
  shall be limited to the assets of the FSLIC Resolution Fund.
  `(f) DISSOLUTION- The FSLIC Resolution Fund shall be dissolved upon
  satisfaction of all debts and liabilities and sale of all assets acquired
  in case resolutions and otherwise. Upon dissolution any remaining funds
  shall be covered into the Treasury. Any administrative facilities and
  supplies, including offices and office supplies, shall be transferred
  to the Corporation for use by and to be held as assets of the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund.
  `(g) ANNUAL REPORT ON FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND-
  `(1) IN GENERAL-
  `(A) REPORT REQUIRED- The Corporation shall annually submit a full report
  on the operations, activities, receipts, and expenditures of the FSLIC
  Resolution Fund for the preceding 12-month period. The report shall include--
  `(i) audited statements of financial position, income and expense, and
  cash flow, an analysis of surplus or deficit, and
  `(ii) such additional statements and information as necessary to make
  known the financial condition and operations of the Fund in accordance
  with generally accepted accounting principles.
  `(B) SUBMISSION- The report, including the results of the audit conducted
  pursuant to paragraph (2), shall be submitted to the President of the Senate
  and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall cause the same
  to be printed for the information of Congress, and to the President as soon
  as practicable after the first day of January of each year but not later
  than 6 months after the close of the 12-month period covered by the report.
  `(2) AUDIT-
  `(A) AUDIT REQUIRED- The Comptroller General shall audit annually the
  financial statements of the FSLIC Resolution Fund in accordance with
  generally accepted government auditing standards unless the Comptroller
  General notifies the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation no
  later than 180 days before the close of a fiscal year that the Comptroller
  General will not perform such audits for that fiscal year. In the event of
  such notification, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall contract with
  an independent certified public accountant to perform the annual audit of
  the financial statements of the FSLIC Resolution Fund in accordance with
  generally accepted government auditing standards.
  `(B) ACCESS TO BOOKS AND RECORDS- All books, records, accounts, reports,
  files, and property belonging to or used by the FSLIC Resolution Fund, or
  by an independent certified public accountant retained to audit the Fund's
  financial statements, shall be made available to the Comptroller General.'.
SEC. 216. SECONDARY RESERVE.
  Section 11A of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by adding at
  the end the following:
  `(f) SECONDARY RESERVE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL-
  `(A) CREDIT- The Corporation shall credit to the secondary reserve, as
  of the close of each calendar year a return on the outstanding balances
  of the secondary reserve, during such calendar year, as determined by
  the Corporation, at a rate equal to the average annual rate of return
  to the Corporation during the year ending at the close of November 30 of
  such calendar year, as determined by the Corporation, on the investments
  in the FSLIC Resolution Fund. Except as provided in paragraph (2), the
  secondary reserve shall be available to the Corporation only for losses
  of the Corporation and shall be so available only to such extent the
  FSLIC Resolution Fund is insufficient for such losses. No right, title,
  or interest of any insured financial institution in or with respect
  to its pro rata share of the secondary reserve shall be assignable or
  transferable whether by operation of law or otherwise, except to such
  extent as the Corporation may provide for transfer of such pro rata share
  in cases of merger or consolidation, transfer of bulk assets or assumption
  of liabilities, and similar transactions, as defined by the Corporation
  for purposes of this sentence.
  `(B) SECONDARY RESERVE OFFSETS AGAINST ASSESSMENTS-
  `(i) OFFSETS IN ASSESSMENT YEARS BEGINNING BEFORE 1993- Subject to the
  maximum amount limitation contained in clause (ii) and notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, an insured financial institution may offset such
  institution's pro rata share of the statutorily prescribed amount against
  any assessment assessed against such insured institution under section 7
  for any premium year beginning after 1987 and before 1993.
  `(ii) ANNUAL MAXIMUM AMOUNT LIMITATION- The amount of any offset allowed
  for any insured financial institution under clause (i) for any premium year
  referred to in clause (i) shall not exceed an amount which is equal to 20
  percent of such institution's pro rata share of the statutorily prescribed
  amount (as computed for the calendar year in which such premium year begins).
  `(iii) OFFSETS IN ASSESSMENT YEARS BEGINNING AFTER 1992- Notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, an insured institution may offset such institution's
  pro rata share of the statutorily prescribed amount against any assessment
  assessed against such insured institution for any premium year beginning
  after 1992.
  `(iv) STATUTORILY PRESCRIBED AMOUNT DEFINED- For purposes of this paragraph,
  the term `statutorily prescribed amount' means--
  `(I) with respect to calendar year 1988, the sum of $823,705,000; and
  `(II) with respect to any calendar year beginning after 1988, the sum
  contained in subclause (I) minus the aggregate amount of offsets made by
  all insured financial institutions before the beginning of the calendar
  year for which such computation is being made.
  `(v) INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTION'S PRO RATA AMOUNT- For purposes of
  this paragraph, an insured financial institution's pro rata share of the
  statutorily prescribed amount is the percentage which is equal to such
  institution's pro rata share of the secondary reserve as determined on the
  day before the date (prior to the enactment of the FIRRE Act) on which
  the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation ceased to recognize
  the secondary reserve.
  `(vi) PREMIUM YEAR DEFINED- For purposes of this paragraph, the term
  `premium year' means, with respect to any insured financial institution,
  the calendar year for which an assessment is assessed under section 7(b)(2).
  `(2) PRO RATA DISTRIBUTION ON TERMINATION OF INSURED STATUS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- If (i) the status of an insured financial institution as
  an insured financial institution is terminated pursuant to any provision
  of section 8 or the insurance of accounts of an insured institution
  is otherwise terminated, (ii) a conservator, receiver, or other legal
  custodian is appointed for an insured institution under the circumstances
  and for the purpose of liquidation or winding up the affairs of the insured
  financial institution, or (iii) the Corporation makes a determination
  that for the purposes of this subsection an insured institution otherwise
  has gone into liquidation, the Corporation shall pay in cash to such
  institution its pro rata share of the secondary reserve, in accordance
  with such terms and conditions as the Corporation may prescribe, or,
  at the option of the Corporation, the Corporation may apply the whole
  or any part of the amount which would otherwise be paid in cash toward
  the payment of any indebtedness or obligation, whether matured or not,
  of such institution to the Corporation, then existing or arising before
  such payment in cash. Such payment or such application need not be made
  to the extent that the provisions of the exception in the last sentence
  of paragraph (1)(A) are applicable.
  `(B) EXCEPTION- In the case of an institution which--
  `(i) ceases to be an insured institution; and
  `(ii) is required to pay an assessment to the Financing Corporation under
  section 21(f)(4) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act with respect to the
  termination of such insured status, subparagraph (A) and the last sentence
  of paragraph (1)(A) shall not apply with respect to such institution.
  `(3) SECONDARY RESERVE- For purposes of this subsection, the term `secondary
  reserve' means the secondary reserve described in subsection (a) of section
  404 of the National Housing Act on the day prior to the date of enactment
  of the FIRRE Act.'.
SEC. 217. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 12.
  Section 12 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1822) is amended--
  (1) by striking `closed bank' each place it appears and inserting `financial
  institution in default';
  (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
  `(a) BOND NOT REQUIRED; AGENTS; FEE- The Corporation as receiver of an
  insured financial institution or branch of a foreign bank shall not be
  required to furnish bond and shall have the right to appoint an agent
  or agents to assist it in its duties as such receiver, and all fees,
  compensation, and expenses of liquidation and administration thereof shall
  be fixed by the Corporation, and may be paid by it out of funds coming
  into its possession as such receiver.'; and
  (3) in subsection (d)--
  (A) by striking `as a stockholder of the financial institution in default,
  or of any liability of such depositor'; and
  (B) by striking `such bank' and inserting `such financial institution'.
SEC. 218. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 13.
  Section 13 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1823) is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
  `(a) INVESTMENT OF CORPORATION FUNDS-
  `(1) AUTHORITY- Funds held in the Bank Insurance Fund, the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund, or the FSLIC Resolution Fund, that are not
  otherwise employed shall be invested in obligations of the United States or
  in obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
  `(2) LIMITATION- The Corporation shall not sell or purchase any obligations
  described in paragraph (1) for its own account, at any one time aggregating
  in excess of $100,000, without the approval of the Secretary of the
  Treasury. The Secretary may approve a transaction or class of transactions
  subject to the provisions of this paragraph under such conditions as the
  Secretary may determine.';
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) by striking `banking and checking' and `banking or checking' wherever
  they occur and inserting the word `depository';
  (B) by striking `bank' (except `Federal Reserve bank') wherever it appears
  and inserting `financial institution';
  (3) in subsection (c)--
  (A) by striking `closing' or `closed' wherever they appear and the inserting
  `default' or `in default'.
  (B) by striking `an' before `closed insured bank' wherever it appears and
  inserting `a';
  (C) by striking `in default insured financial institution' wherever it
  appears and inserting `insured financial institution in default';
  (D) in paragraph (2)(A)--
  (i) by striking `such insured institution' and `an insured financial
  institution' and inserting `such other insured financial institution' and
  `another insured financial institution', respectively;
  `(ii) by inserting `any or all of the' after `the sale of'; and
  `(iii) by striking `and the assumption' and inserting `or the assumption
  of any or all';
  (E) by adding at the end of paragraph (2) the following:
  `(C) Any action to which the Corporation is or becomes a party by virtue
  of its acquisition of any asset or exercise of any other authority set
  forth in this section or section 11 shall be stayed for a period of 45
  days at the request of the Corporation.';
  (F) in paragraph (3), by striking `section 13(f) of this Act' and inserting
  `subsection (f) or (k) thereof';
  (G) in paragraph (4)--
  (i) by striking `banking' and inserting `financial'; and
  (ii) by inserting at the end of subparagraph (A) the following: `In
  calculating the cost of assistance, the Corporation shall include (i)
  the immediate and long-term obligations of the Corporation with respect
  to such assistance, including contingent liabilities, and (ii) the
  Federal tax revenues foregone by the Government, to the extent reasonably
  ascertainable.'; and
  (H) by striking paragraph (8);
  (I) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7) and (8),
  respectively;
  (J) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
  `(6) The transfer of any assets or liabilities associated with any trust
  business of an insured financial institution in default under subparagraph
  (2)(A) shall be effective without any State or Federal approval, assignment,
  or consent with respect thereto.'; and
  (K) by adding at the end the following:
  `(9) Payments made under this subsection shall be made--
  `(A) from the Bank Insurance Fund in the case of payments to a member of
  such Fund; or
  `(B) from the Savings Association Insurance Fund or from funds made
  available by the Resolution Trust Corporation in the case of Savings
  Association Insurance Fund members.';
  (4) by striking subsections (d) and (e) and inserting the following:
  `(d) SALE OF ASSETS TO CORPORATION- Conservators, receivers, or liquidators
  of insured financial institutions in default shall be entitled to offer the
  assets of such financial institutions for sale to the Corporation or as
  security for loans from the Corporation. The proceeds of every such sale
  or loan shall be utilized for the same purposes and in the same manner as
  other funds realized from the liquidation of the assets of such financial
  institutions. The Corporation, in its discretion, may make loans on the
  security of or may purchase and liquidate or sell any part of the assets of
  an insured financial institution which is now or may hereafter be in default.
  `(e) AGREEMENTS AGAINST INTERESTS OF CORPORATION- No agreement which tends
  to diminish or defeat the right, title or interest of the Corporation
  in any asset acquired by it under this section or section 11, either as
  security for a loan or by purchase or as receiver of any insured financial
  institution, shall be valid against the Corporation unless such agreement--
  `(1) shall be in writing,
  `(2) shall have been executed by the financial institution and the person
  or persons claiming an adverse interest thereunder, including the obligor,
  contemporaneously with the acquisition of the asset by the financial
  institution, or if the financial institution is the borrower under such
  agreement, the agreement was executed prior to or contemporaneously with
  such borrowing,
  `(3) shall have been approved by the board of directors of the financial
  institution or its loan committee, which approval shall be reflected in
  the minutes of said board or committee, and
  `(4) shall have been, continuously, from the time of its execution, an
  official record of the financial institution.';
  (5) in subsection (f)--
  (A) by striking `closed' and `closing' wherever they occur and inserting
  `in default' or `default', respectively, except that whenever `bank'
  immediately follows `closed', the phrase `closed bank' shall be stricken
  and the phrase `bank in default' shall be inserted;
  (B) in paragraph (2)(B)(iii) by striking `a unanimous vote' and inserting
  `a vote of 75 percent of';
  (C) by striking `depository' wherever it appears and inserting `financial';
  (D) by striking `the constitution of any State,';
  (E) in paragraph (6)(A), by inserting `the offeror which made the initial
  lowest acceptable offer and' after `the Corporation shall permit';
  (F) by adding at the end of paragraph (7) the following:
  `(C) if in the opinion of the Corporation the acquisition threatens the
  safety and soundness of the acquirer or does not result in the future
  viability of the resulting financial institution.';
  (G) in paragraph (8), by striking subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D) and
  redesignating paragraphs (C), (E), (F), and (G) as subparagraphs (A), (B),
  (C), and (D), respectively; and
  (H) in paragraph (9)--
  (i) in the paragraph heading by striking `nonbank' and inserting `certain';
  (ii) in paragraph (9)(A), by inserting `,other than a subsidiary that
  is an insured financial institution,' after `subsidiary' and by striking
  `which is not an insured bank'; and
  (iii) in paragraph (9)(B) by inserting `or an affiliate of an insured
  financial institution' after `intermediate holding company';
  (6) in subsection (h), by striking `a closed insured financial institution',
  `closing', and `insurance fund' and inserting `an insured financial
  institution in default', `default', and `Bank Insurance Fund', respectively;
  (7) in subsection (i)--
  (A) by inserting `financial' before `institution' wherever it appears;
  (B) in paragraph (1)(C)--
  (i) by striking `corporation' and inserting `Corporation';
  (ii) by striking `chartered bank' and inserting `chartered financial
  institution';
  (iii) by inserting `, a savings association,' after `State member bank'; and
  (iv) by inserting `or the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations'
  after `Federal Reserve System';
  (C) in paragraph (2), by striking `or insured or guaranteed under State
  law'; and
  (D) by striking paragraphs (10) and (12); and
  (8) by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(k)(1)(A)(i) Notwithstanding any provision of State law the Corporation,
  upon determining that severe financial conditions threaten the stability
  of a significant number of savings associations, or of savings associations
  possessing significant financial resources, may authorize, in its discretion
  and if it determines such authorization would lessen the risk to the
  Corporation, a savings association that is eligible for assistance pursuant
  to subsection (c) to merge or consolidate with, or to transfer its assets
  and liabilities to, any other savings association or any insured bank,
  may authorize any other savings association to acquire control of such
  savings association, or may authorize any company to acquire control of
  such savings association or to acquire the assets or assume the liabilities
  thereof. In any authorization under this paragraph the Corporation shall
  determine that the authorization does not present a substantial risk to
  the safety or soundness of the savings association to be acquired or to
  the acquiring entity or entities.
  `(ii) Mergers, consolidations, transfers, and acquisitions under this
  subsection shall be on such terms as the Corporation shall provide.
  `(iii) Where otherwise required by law, transactions under this subsection
  must be approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency of every party
  thereto.
  `(iv) A Federal savings association that acquires another savings association
  pursuant to clause (i) may, with the concurrence of the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations, hold that savings association as a
  subsidiary notwithstanding the percentage limitations of section 5(c)(4)(B)
  of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
  `(v) Dual service by a management official that would otherwise be prohibited
  under the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act may, with the
  approval of the Corporation, continue for up to 10 years.
  `(vi) Nothing in this subsection overrides or supersedes State laws
  restricting or limiting the activities of a savings association on behalf
  of other entity.
  `(B)(i) Before making a determination to take any action under subparagraph
  (A), the Corporation shall consult the State official having jurisdiction
  of the acquired institution.
  `(ii) The official shall be given a reasonable opportunity, and in no
  event less than 48 hours, to object to the use of the provisions of this
  paragraph. Such notice may be provided by the Corporation prior to its
  appointment as receiver, but in anticipation of an impending appointment.
  `(iii) If the official objects during such period, the Corporation may
  use the authority of this paragraph a vote of 75 percent or more of the
  voting members of the Board of Directors. The Corporation shall provide
  to the official, as soon as practicable, a written certification of its
  determination.
  `(2) In considering authorizations under this subsection, the Corporation
  may solicit such offers or proposals as are practicable from any prospective
  purchasers or merger partners it determines, in its sole discretion, are
  both qualified and capable of acquiring the assets and liabilities of the
  savings association.
  `(3)(A) If, after receiving offers, the offer presenting the lowest expense
  to the Corporation, that is in a form and with conditions acceptable to the
  Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the `lowest acceptable offer'), is
  from an institution that is not an existing in-State savings association or
  an in-State savings and loan holding company, the Corporation shall permit
  the offeror which made the lowest acceptable offer and each offeror who
  made an offer the estimated cost of which to the Corporation was within 15
  percent or $15,000,000, whichever is less, of the initial lowest acceptable
  offer to submit a new offer.
  `(B) In considering authorizations under this subsection, the Corporation
  shall give consideration to the need to minimize the cost of financial
  assistance and to the maintenance of specialized financial institutions. The
  Corporation shall authorize transactions under this subsection considering
  the following priorities:
  `(i) First, between financial institutions of the same type within the
  same State;
  `(ii) Second, between financial institutions of the same type in different
  States;
  `(iii) Third, between financial institutions of different types in the
  same State; and
  `(iv) Fourth, between financial institutions of different types in
  different States.
  `(C) In the case of a minority-controlled financial institution, the
  Corporation shall seek an offer from other minority-controlled financial
  institutions before proceeding with the sequence set forth in subparagraph
  (B).
  `(D) In considering offers from different States, the Corporation shall
  give a priority to offers from adjoining States.
  `(E) In determining the cost of offers and reoffers under this subsection,
  the Corporation's calculations and estimations shall be determinative. The
  Corporation may set reasonable time limits on offers and reoffers.
  `(4) For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) the term `of the same type' means financial institutions that are
  `savings associations' as defined in section 10(a) of the Home Owners'
  Loan Act of 1933 or holding companies thereof; and
  `(B) a financial institution is `within the same State' where the financial
  institution is an existing insured financial institution currently operating
  in the State in which the institution to be acquired has its home office
  or a company that is operating an insured financial institution subsidiary
  in the State in which the institution to be acquired has its home office.
  `(5)(A) Where a merger, consolidation, transfer, or acquisition under this
  subsection involves a savings association eligible for assistance and a bank
  or bank holding company, a savings association may retain and operate any
  existing branch or branches or any other existing facilities. If the savings
  association continues to exist as a separate entity, it may establish and
  operate new branches to the same extent as any savings association located
  in the same State that is not affiliated with a bank holding company.
  `(B)(i) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such a savings association
  does not have its home office in the State of the bank holding company
  bank subsidiary, and if such association does not qualify as a domestic
  building and loan association under section 7701(a)(19) of the Internal
  Revenue Code of 1986, or does not meet the asset composition test imposed
  by subparagraph (C) of that section on institutions seeking so to qualify,
  then such savings association shall be subject to the conditions upon
  which a bank may retain, operate, and establish branches in the State in
  which the Savings Association Insurance Fund member is located.
  `(ii) The Corporation, for good cause shown, may allow a savings association
  up to 2 years to comply with the requirements of clause (i).'.
SEC. 219. BORROWING AUTHORITY.
  Section 14 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1824) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and directed' and by striking `$3,000,000,000 outstanding
  at any one time' and inserting `$5,000,000,000 outstanding at any one time,
  subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury and to approval
  in an appropriation Act'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following: `The Corporation may employ such
  funds for purposes of the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund and the borrowing shall become a liability of each such
  fund to the extent funds are employed therefor.'; and
  (3) by striking `the current average rate on outstanding marketable and
  nonmarketable obligations of the United States as of the last day of the
  month preceding the making of such loan' and inserting in lieu thereof
  the following: `an amount determined by the Secretary of the Treasury,
  taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable
  obligations of the United States of comparable maturities'.
SEC. 220. LIMITATION ON BORROWINGS.
  Section 15 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1825) is amended
  as follows:
  (1) by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 15.'
  (2) by inserting before the period at the end of the last sentence
  of subsection (a) the following: `and such State, territorial, county,
  municipal or local taxation shall be the only type of State, territorial,
  county, municipal, or local tax to which the Corporation for itself or as
  receiver of an insured financial institution shall be subjected. Further,
  the failure of an insured financial institution to pay or remit any State,
  territorial, county, municipal, or other local tax shall not subject the
  Corporation as receiver or conservator of that financial institution to any
  penalty, forfeiture, or limitation with respect to the enforceability of
  any right, title, or interest the Corporation as receiver or conservator
  may have and such failure to pay the tax shall only result in a claim for
  such tax against the estate of the financial institution'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(b)(1) The Corporation shall estimate the cost of all notes or similar
  obligations issued by it, and all guarantees or similar obligations incurred
  by it, prior to the creation thereof, and shall reflect such cost in its
  financial statements, and make such adjustments as are appropriate thereto
  no less than quarterly.
  `(2) The Corporation shall not issue any note or similar obligation, and
  shall not incur any liability under a guarantee or similar obligation,
  with respect to either the Bank Insurance Fund or the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund if the estimated cost thereof would reduce the net worth
  of the respective Insurance Fund to less than zero.
  `(3) With the prior approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, the
  Corporation may issue or incur up to $5,000,000,000 in the aggregate of
  additional liabilities in excess of the limitations of (2) above. Any such
  additional liabilities shall reduce, on a dollar basis, the amount which
  the Corporation may borrow from the Treasury under section 14 of this Act.
  `(4) For the purpose of subsection (b), the net worth of an Insurance
  Fund shall be calculated based upon the most recent audit of such Fund by
  the General Accounting Office, as reduced by the adjustments required in
  paragraph (1).'.
  `(c) FULL FAITH AND CREDIT- The full faith and credit of the United
  States is pledged to the payment of all notes, debentures, bonds, and
  other similar obligations, including guarantees and similar liabilities,
  of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund,
  with respect to both principal and interest.'.
SEC. 221. REPORTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 17 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1827) is amended--
  (1) by striking out subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following:
  `(a) ANNUAL REPORTS ON BIF, SAIF, AND THE FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall annually submit a full report of
  its operations, activities, budget, receipts, and expenditures for the
  preceding 12-month period. The report shall include, with respect to the
  Bank Insurance Fund, the Savings Association Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC
  Resolution Fund, an analysis by the Corporation of--
  `(A) the purpose, effect, and estimated cost of each resolution action
  taken for an insured institution during the preceding year;
  `(B) the extent to which the actual costs of assistance provided to,
  or for the benefit of, an insured institution during the preceding year
  exceeded the estimate costs of such assistance reported in a previous year
  under paragraph (A);
  `(C) a current estimate of the resources needed for the Bank Insurance Fund,
  the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or the FSLIC Resolution Fund to
  achieve the purposes of this Act; and
  `(D) any findings, conclusions, and recommendations for legislative
  and administrative actions considered appropriate to future resolution
  activities by the Corporation.
  `(2) MANNER OF SUBMISSION- Such report shall be submitted to the President
  of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall
  cause the same to be printed for the information of Congress, and the
  President as soon as practicable after the first day of January each year.'
  (2) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as (c), (d), and (e),
  respectively; and
  (3) by adding a new subsection (b) to read as follows:
  `(b) BUDGET PLANNING- As soon as practicable, prior to the beginning of each
  fiscal quarter, the Corporation shall submit a report to the Secretary of
  the Treasury with respect to the Corporation's financial operating plans
  and forecasts (including estimates of actual and future spending, and
  estimates of actual and future non-cash obligations) taking into account
  the Corporation's financial commitments, guarantees and other contingent
  liabilities. Nothing herein implies in and of itself any obligation on the
  part of the Corporation to obtain the consent or approval of the Secretary
  or the Director of the plans and forecasts provided pursuant hereto.'.
  (b) SPECIFIC REPORTS-
  (1) RISK-BASED ASSESSMENTS- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  shall study the establishment of premium assessment categories related to
  types of risk to the insurance funds and shall report its recommendations
  to the Congress not later than January 1, 1991. If the Corporation should
  recommend the establishment of such a risk-based assessment plan, it shall
  also provide a timetable and plan for implementation.
  (2) STUDY OF DEPOSIT INSURANCE PASS-THROUGH- Not later than 6 months
  after the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation shall transmit to the Congress a report containing its findings
  and recommendations relating to the pass-through of deposit insurance either
  to individual investors in unit investment trust funds or to individual
  participants in pension or to profit sharing plans qualified under section
  401 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Such report shall also contain
  the Corporation's assessment of the potential effects of broadening deposit
  insurance coverage on the operation of capital markets.
SEC. 222. REGULATIONS GOVERNING INSURED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
  Section 18 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by inserting after the first sentence the following:
  `Such signs displayed by financial institutions shall also represent
  whether the financial institution is a Bank Insurance Fund member or a
  Savings Association Insurance Fund member.';
  (2) in subsection (c)--
  (A) in paragraph (2), by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the
  following:
  `(C) the Corporation if the acquiring, assuming, or resulting bank is to
  be a State nonmember insured bank (except a District bank or a savings
  bank supervised by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations); and
  `(D) the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations if the acquiring,
  assuming, or resulting institution is to be a savings association.';
  (B) by striking paragraph (12);
  (C) in paragraphs (3), (4), (6), (7), and (9), by inserting after the word
  `bank' or `banks' each time it appears, the words `or savings association'
  or `or savings associations', respectively; and
  (D) in paragraph (3), by striking `failure' and inserting `default';
  (3) in subsection (i)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `nonmember bank (except a District bank)'
  and inserting `financial institution (except a member bank, a District
  bank, or savings bank supervised by the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations)';
  (B) in paragraph (2)--
  (i) in subparagraph (C), by inserting with in the parenthetical `or a
  savings bank to be supervised by the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations' after `except a District bank'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the period the following: `; (D) the Chairman
  of the Office of Savings Associations if the resulting institution is to
  be a State savings association or a savings bank to be supervised by the
  Office of Savings Associations;';
  (C) in paragraph (4)(D), by inserting `and fitness' after `character'; and
  (D) by striking paragraph (5); and
  (4) by adding at the end the following:
  `(m) Activities of Savings Associations and Their Subsidiaries-
  `(1) PROCEDURES- Whenever an insured savings association establishes or
  acquires control of a company or whenever an insured savings association
  elects to conduct any new activity through a company that the insured
  savings association controls, the insured savings association:
  `(A) shall notify the Corporation and the Chairman of the Office of
  Savings Associations not less than 30 days prior to the establishment, or
  acquisition, of any such new company, and not less than 30 days prior to
  the commencement of any such activity, and in either case shall provide at
  that time such information as each such agency may, by regulation, require;
  `(B) except as provided in section 5(t)(3) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of
  1933, shall deduct its entire investment in and loans and other financial
  accommodations to the company from its own capital for the purposes of
  determining capital adequacy if the company is engaged in activities not
  permissible for a national bank; and
  `(C) shall commence and conduct the activities of the company in accordance
  with such rules, regulations, and orders as may be established by the
  Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations.
  `(2) ENFORCEMENT POWERS- With respect to any company controlled by an
  insured savings association:
  `(A) the Corporation and the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations
  shall each have, with respect to such company, the respective powers and
  authorities that each may possess with respect to the insured savings
  association pursuant to this section or to section 8; and
  `(B) the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations shall have
  authority to determine, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that
  the continuation by the insured savings association of its ownership or
  control of, or its relationship to, the company constitutes a serious risk
  to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of the insured savings
  association or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or with the
  purposes of this Act, and upon making any such determination the agency
  shall have authority to order the insured savings association to divest
  itself of control of the company. The Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations shall also have the authority to take any other corrective
  measures with respect to the company, including the authority to have the
  company terminate the activities or operations posing such risks, as the
  agency may deem appropriate.
  `(3) Activities incompatible with deposit insurance-
  `(A) The Board of Directors is authorized to determine by regulation or order
  that any specific activity poses a serious threat to the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund. Prior to adopting any such regulation, the Corporation
  shall consult with the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations and
  shall provide appropriate State supervisors the opportunity to review such
  regulation and comment thereon, and the Corporation shall specifically
  take such comments into consideration. If the Board of Directors makes
  such a determination with respect to an activity, the Corporation shall
  have authority to order that no Savings Association Insurance Fund member
  may engage in the activity directly. In addition, no Savings Association
  Insurance Fund member shall be or become liable for the liabilities
  or obligations arising out of any such activity conducted indirectly,
  except to the extent such liability or obligation (i) is in writing, (ii)
  shall have been executed by the member and person or entity to whom the
  liability or obligation is owed either contemporaneously with the creation
  of the liability or obligation, or if the liability or obligation was
  created prior to the effective date of the FIRRE Act, within one hundred
  and twenty days of the effective date of the FIRRE Act, (iii) has been
  approved by the board of directors or an official committee of the member,
  and (iv) shall have been, continuously, from the time of its creation,
  an official record of the Savings Association Insurance Fund member.
  `(B) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Office of
  Savings Associations to issue regulations to promote safety and soundness
  or to enforce compliance with other applicable laws.
  `(4) `COMPANY' DEFINED- As used in this subsection (m), the term `company'
  shall not include an insured financial institution.
  `(5) EFFECT ON OTHER AUTHORITY- Nothing contained in subsection (m) shall
  derogate from the rights and authorities of the Corporation under other
  provisions of law.
  `(6) APPLICABILITY- The provision of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph
  (1) of this subsection shall not apply to any Federal savings bank that
  was chartered prior to October 15, 1982, as a savings bank under State
  law, or to a savings association that acquired its principal assets from
  an institution that was chartered prior to October 15, 1982, as a savings
  bank under State law.
  `(n) CALCULATION OF CAPITAL- No appropriate Federal banking agency shall
  allow any insured financial institution to include an unidentifiable
  intangible asset in its calculation of compliance with the appropriate
  capital standard, if such unidentifiable intangible asset was acquired after
  April 12, 1989, except to the extent permitted under section 5(t)(2)(B)
  of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.'.
SEC. 223. INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES OF STATE SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.
  The Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following new section:
`SEC. 28. INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS CHARTERED UNDER
STATE LAW.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- A savings association chartered under State law shall
  not, after January 1, 1990, engage as principal in any type of activity,
  or in any activity in an amount, that is not permissible for a Federal
  savings association unless--
  `(1) the Corporation has determined that the activity would pose no
  significant risk to the affected deposit insurance fund; and
  `(2) the savings association is and remains in compliance with the fully
  phased-in capital standards prescribed pursuant to section 5(t) of the
  Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
  `(b) DIFFERENCES OF MAGNITUDE- Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1), if an
  activity is permissible for a Federal savings association, a savings
  association chartered under State law may engage as principal in that
  activity in an amount that is greater than the amount permissible for a
  Federal savings association if--
  `(1) the Corporation has not determined that engaging in that amount of
  the activity poses any significant risk to the deposit insurance fund;
  `(2) the savings association chartered under State law is described in
  subsection (a)(2); and
  `(3) the activity--
  `(A) does not involve acquiring or retaining shares of one or more subsidiary
  corporations in an aggregate amount greater than that permissible for a
  Federal savings association under section 5(c)(4)(B) of the Home Owners'
  Loan Act of 1933;
  `(B) is not described in section 5(c)(2)(B) of the Home Owners' Loan Act
  of 1933; and
  `(C) does not involve acquiring or retaining corporate debt securities
  that are not of investment grade in an amount greater than the amount that
  a Federal savings association may acquire directly.
  `(c) EQUITY INVESTMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), a savings
  association chartered under State law shall not directly acquire or retain
  any equity investment of a type or in an amount that is not permissible
  for a Federal savings association.
  `(2) EXCEPTIONS- Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to shares of one
  or more subsidiary corporations acquired or retained pursuant to subsection
  (a).
  `(3) TRANSITIONAL RULE-
  `(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if a savings association held an
  equity investment on the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, the savings
  association may retain the equity investment for such a period and on such
  terms as the Corporation may determine by regulation or order pursuant to
  subparagraph (B).
  `(B) The Corporation shall require savings associations to divest any equity
  investment that is not permissible under paragraph (1) or (2) as quickly
  as can be prudently done, and in any event not later than July 1, 1994.
  `(d) CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES THAT ARE NOT OF INVESTMENT GRADE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2)(A), a savings
  association chartered under State law shall not, directly or through a
  subsidiary, acquire or retain corporate debt securities that are not of
  investment grade in an amount greater than the amount that the savings
  association could acquire directly if it were a Federal savings association
  unless--
  `(A) the savings association chartered under State law has filed an
  application, and the Corporation has determined that no significant risk
  to the deposit insurance fund would be posed if the savings association
  held the amount in question; and
  `(B) the savings association is described in subsection (a)(2) (or would be
  described in subsection (a)(2) if paragraph 4 did not apply) or in paragraph
  (2)(D) of this subsection.
  `(2) REVIEW-
  `(A) A savings association chartered under State law may, directly or
  through a subsidiary, during the 12-month period following the date of
  enactment of the FIRRE Act, retain corporate debt securities that are not
  of investment grade in an amount greater than the amount that a Federal
  savings association may acquire directly.
  `(B) A savings association chartered under State law that wishes to retain
  such securities directly or through a subsidiary after that 12-month period
  in an amount greater than the amount that a Federal savings association
  may acquire directly shall file a written application with the Corporation
  not later than 90 days after the date of enactment in the manner prescribed
  by the Corporation. The Corporation shall approve or deny the application
  not later than 10 months after the date of enactment.
  `(C) In approving an application, the Corporation may impose such conditions
  as it determines to be appropriate pursuant to paragraph (1), including--
  `(i) limiting the amount of such securities to any amount greater than or
  equal to the amount that a Federal savings association may acquire directly;
  `(ii) requiring that any amount of such securities greater than the amount
  that a Federal savings association may acquire directly be deducted from
  the savings association's capital for purposes of section 5(t) of the Home
  Owners' Loan Act of 1933; or
  `(iii) requiring that such securities be held by a subsidiary subject to
  paragraph (4).
  `(D) During a reasonable period (to be determined by the Corporation) not to
  exceed 6 months from the date on which the Corporation makes a determination
  under subparagraph (B) with respect to a savings association, the savings
  association is described in this subparagraph for purposes of paragraph
  (1)(B) if the Corporation is satisfied that the savings association will
  be described in subsection (a)(2) (or would be described in subsection
  (a)(2) if paragraph (4) did not apply) before that period expires.
  `(3) TRANSITIONAL RULES- To the extent that the Corporation does not permit
  a savings association to retain such securities in an amount greater than
  the amount that a Federal savings association may acquire directly, the
  savings association shall divest itself of the excess amount in accordance
  with the following schedule:
The association may retain not more than the
`During the following period:
following percentage of the excess amount:
The 1-year period beginning 12 months after that date of enactment
75 percent
The 1-year period beginning 24 months after that date of enactment
50 percent
The 1-year period beginning 36 months after that date of enactment
25 percent
Thereafter
0 percent
  `(4) SECURITIES HELD THROUGH A SUBSIDIARY- Except as provided in paragraph
  (1), if a savings association chartered under State law holds through a
  subsidiary corporate debt securities that are not of investment grade and
  the aggregate amount of such securities held by the savings association
  and its subsidiaries is greater than the amount that a Federal savings
  association may acquire directly, then the excess amount shall be deducted
  from the savings association's capital in determining that capital for
  purposes of section 5(t) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
  `(e) DETERMINATIONS- The Corporation may make determinations under this
  section by regulation or order.
  `(f) DEFINITIONS-
  `(1) The term `activity' includes acquiring or retaining any investment.
  `(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), subsections (a) and (b) shall not be
  construed to require a savings association to divest itself of any assets
  acquired before the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act.
  `(g) OTHER AUTHORITY NOT AFFECTED- This section does not limit--
  `(1) any other authority of the Corporation; or
  `(2) any authority of the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations
  or of a State to impose more stringent restrictions.'.
SEC. 224. LOAN TO VALUE RATIOS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Deposit Insurance Act is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following:
`SEC. 29. LOAN TO VALUE RATIOS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each insured financial institution in making a loan
  secured by real property shall be subject to the following limitations:
  `(1) For a loan or other advance to finance the purchase of or to refinance
  outstanding indebtedness on property improved by a completed one- to
  four-family dwelling, the amount of the loan or advance may not exceed 95
  percent of the appraised value of the property.
  `(2) For a loan secured by other real estate--
  `(A) if the property is improved by one or more completed structures, the
  amount of the loan or advance may not exceed 80 percent of the appraised
  value of the property;
  `(B) if the property is improved but has no completed structure, the amount
  of the loan or advance may not exceed 70 percent of the appraised value; or
  `(C) if the property is undeveloped, the amount of the loan or advance
  may not exceed 65 percent of the appraised value.
  `(b) EXCEPTIONS- Subsection (a) does not apply to any loan the payment of
  principal and interest of which is insured or guaranteed by a Federal agency,
  as defined in regulations of the appropriate Federal regulatory agency.
  `(c) REGULATORY AUTHORITY- The limitations contained in subsection (a)
  may be adjusted by the appropriate Federal regulatory agency upon a
  determination that--
  `(1) the limitation which would otherwise apply is unreasonable and limits
  safe and sound investment activities; or
  `(2) the limitation that would otherwise apply does not sufficiently
  curtail unsafe and unsound practices.
  `(d) ENFORCEMENT- Compliance with the requirement imposed under this
  section shall be enforced under section 8 of this Act.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 24 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
  U.S.C. 371) is repealed.
SEC. 225. NONDISCRIMINATION.
  Section 22 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1830)
  is amended to read as follows: `It is not the purpose of this Act to
  discriminate in any manner against State nonmember banks or State savings
  associations and in favor of national or member banks or Federal savings
  associations, respectively; but the purpose is to provide all banks and
  savings associations with the same opportunity to obtain and enjoy the
  benefits of this Act.'.
TITLE III--CHAIRMAN OF THE OFFICE OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
SEC. 301. AMENDMENT TO HOME OWNERS' LOAN ACT OF 1933.
  The Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 is amended to read as follows:
`SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  `This Act may be cited as the `Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933'.
`SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purpose of this Act--
  `(1) The term `Chairman' means the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations.
  `(2) The term `savings association' has the same meaning as in section 3
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(3) The term `Federal savings association' means a Federal savings
  association or a Federal savings bank chartered under section 5(o) of
  this Act.
  `(4) The term `Federal banking agencies' means the Office of the Comptroller
  of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
`SEC. 3. SUPERVISION OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Chairman is authorized to provide for the examination,
  safe and sound operation, and regulation of savings associations. The
  Chairman may issue rules and regulations to carry out the responsibilities
  of the Chairman. The authorities conferred by this section are intended to
  encourage savings associations to maintain their role of providing credit for
  housing in a manner consistent with principles of safe and sound operation.
  `(b) UNIFORM STANDARDS- The Chairman shall by regulation prescribe
  uniform accounting and disclosure standards for all savings associations
  to be used in determining their compliance with all applicable rules
  and regulations. These uniform accounting standards shall incorporate
  generally accepted accounting principles to the same degree that generally
  accepted accounting principles are used to determine compliance with rules
  and regulations issued by the Federal banking agencies, shall require full
  compliance therewith no later than the schedule provided in 12 C.F.R. section
  563.23-3 (as in effect immediately prior to the effective date of the FIRRE
  Act), and shall be coordinated with the capital standards established by
  the Chairman pursuant to section 5(t)(1) of this Act. No deviation from
  full compliance with the uniform accounting standards shall be permitted
  after December 31, 1993. The Chairman may, at any time, prescribe more
  stringent accounting principles if the Chairman determines that they are
  necessary to ensure the safe and sound operation of savings associations.
  `(c) STRINGENCY OF STANDARDS- The rules, regulations, and policies of the
  Chairman governing the safe and sound operation of savings associations,
  including policies governing asset classification and appraisals, shall be no
  less stringent than those of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
  `(d) INVESTMENT OF FUNDS- The savings accounts and share accounts held by
  savings associations insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  shall be lawful investments and may be accepted as security for all public
  funds of the United States, fiduciary and trust funds under the authority
  or control of the United States or any officer or officers thereof, and for
  the funds of all corporations organized under the laws of the United States
  (subject to any regulatory authority otherwise applicable), regardless of
  any limitation of law upon the investment of any such funds or upon the
  acceptance of security for the investment or deposit of any of such funds.
  `(e) LOTTERIES- (1) A savings association may not--
  `(A) deal in lottery tickets;
  `(B) deal in bets used as a means or substitute for participation in
  a lottery;
  `(C) announce, advertise, or publicize the existence of any lottery;
  `(D) announce, advertise, or publicize the existence or identity of any
  participant or winner, as such, in a lottery.
  `(2) A savings association may not permit--
  `(A) the use of any part of any of its own offices by any person for any
  purpose forbidden to the savings association under paragraph (1), or
  `(B) direct access by the public from any of its own offices to any premises
  used by any person for any purpose forbidden to the savings association
  under paragraph (1).
  `(3) As used in this subsection--
  `(A) The term `deal in' includes making, taking, buying, selling, redeeming,
  or collecting.
  `(B) The term `lottery' includes any arrangement whereby three or more
  persons (the `participants') advance money or credit to another in exchange
  for the possibility or expectation that one or more but not all of the
  participants (the `winners') will receive by reason of their advances more
  than the amounts they have advanced, the identity of the winners being
  determined by any means which includes--
  `(i) a random selection;
  `(ii) a game, race, or contest; or
  `(iii) any record or tabulation of the result of one or more events in
  which any participant has no interest except for its bearing upon the
  possibility that he may become a winner.
  `(C) The term `lottery ticket' includes any right, privilege, or possibility
  (and any ticket, receipt, record, or other evidence of any such right,
  privilege, or possibility) of becoming a winner in a lottery.
  `(4) Nothing contained in this subsection prohibits a savings association
  from accepting funds from, or performing any lawful services for, a State
  operating a lottery, or an officer or employee of that State who is charged
  with the administration of the lottery.
  `(5) The Chairman shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to the
  strict enforcement of this section and the prevention of evasions thereof.
  `(f) LENDING DISCLOSURES- No savings association shall make any Federally
  related mortgage loan to any agent, trustee, nominee, or other person acting
  in a fiduciary capacity without the prior condition that the identity of the
  person receiving the beneficial interest of such loan shall at all times
  be revealed to the savings association. At the request of the Chairman of
  the Federal Home Loan Bank System, the savings association shall report
  to the Chairman on the identity of such person and the nature and amount
  of the loan.
  `(g) USURY OVERRIDE- (1) If the applicable rate prescribed in this section
  exceeds the rate of a savings association would be permitted to charge in the
  absence of this section, such savings association may, notwithstanding any
  State constitution or statute which is hereby preempted for the purposes of
  this section, take, receive, reserve, and charge on any loan or discount
  made, or upon any note, bill of exchange, or other evidence of debt,
  interest at a rate of not more than 1 percent in excess of the discount
  rate on 90-day commercial paper in effect at the Federal Reserve bank in
  the Federal Reserve district where such savings association is located
  or at the rate allowed by the laws of the State, territory, or district
  where such savings association is located, whichever may be greater.
  `(2) If the rate prescribed in paragraph (1) exceeds the rate such savings
  association would be permitted to charge in the absence of this section,
  and such State fixed rate is thereby preempted by the rate described in
  paragraph (1), the taking, receiving, reserving, or charging a greater
  rate of interest than that prescribed by paragraph (1), when knowingly
  done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest which the note,
  bill, or other evidence of debt carries with it, or which has been agreed
  to be paid thereon. If such greater rate of interest has been paid, the
  person who paid it may recover, in a civil action commenced in a court of
  appropriate jurisdiction not later than two years after the date of such
  payment, an amount equal to twice the amount of the interest paid from
  the savings association taking or receiving such interest.
  `(h) FORM AND MATURITY OF SECURITIES- No savings association shall issue
  securities which guarantee a definite maturity except with the specific
  approval of the Chairman, or issue any securities the form of which has
  not been approved by the Chairman.
  `(i) AUDIT- Each savings association and service corporation thereof shall,
  at its own expense, be audited at least once in every calendar year by
  auditors satisfactory to the Chairman and in a manner satisfactory to the
  Chairman. A savings association or service corporation shall not compensate
  its auditors for services rendered pursuant to this section until--
  `(1) the Chairman determines that the audit has been performed to his
  satisfaction and notifies the savings association or service corporation
  of that determination; or
  `(2) the savings association or service corporation makes a written
  request for such a determination and the Chairman has not, within 30
  days after receiving the request, given written notice to the savings
  association or service corporation that the audit has not been performed
  to his satisfaction.
`SEC. 4. CHAIRMAN OF OFFICE OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established an Office of Savings
  Associations. The Office shall be a bureau in the Department of the
  Treasury. All power and authority vested in the Federal Home Loan Bank
  Board or its Chairman immediately prior to enactment of the FIRRE Act are,
  except as otherwise provided in that Act or the Federal Home Loan Bank Act,
  vested in the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations. On the date
  which is 60 days after enactment of the FIRRE Act, the Federal Home Loan
  Bank Board shall cease to exist and shall for all purposes be considered
  dissolved. Prior thereto, all employees of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
  shall be transferred as provided in title IV of the FIRRE Act. During the
  period between enactment of such Act and dissolution of the Federal Home
  Loan Bank Board, the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board may act
  on behalf of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board as necessary to accomplish
  the dissolution thereof and the Chairman may utilize the services of the
  employees of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to perform services for the
  Office of Savings Associations.
  `(2) DUTIES- The Chairman shall supervise savings associations and
  shall promulgate and enforce such rules, regulations, and orders, as are
  necessary from time to time for carrying out the provisions of this Act
  and all other laws it is his or her duty to implement. The Chairman shall
  perform his or her duties under the general direction of the Secretary of the
  Treasury. Nothing in this section may be construed to permit the Secretary
  of the Treasury to intervene in any matter or proceeding before the Chairman.
  `(b) APPOINTMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Chairman, who shall be a citizen of the United States,
  shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
  of the Senate, and shall hold office for a term of 5 years unless sooner
  removed by the President, upon reasons to be communicated by the President
  to the Senate.
  `(2) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION- Notwithstanding subsection (a) or paragraph
  (1), the individual serving as the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank
  Board on the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act shall be the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations until the date on which his term as
  Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board would have expired.
  `(3) CONTINUED SERVICE UNTIL SUCCESSOR APPOINTED- The Chairman may continue
  to serve until a successor has been appointed and qualified.
  `(c) APPOINTMENT OF STAFF-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury
  and title IV of the FIRRE Act, the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations may employ, direct, and fix the compensation of such employees,
  attorneys, and agents as he deems necessary to carry out his or her duties
  without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
  the compensation of officers and employees, and report thereon to the
  Congress. In directing and fixing such compensation, the Chairman shall
  consult with, and seek to maintain comparability with the compensation at,
  the other Federal bank regulatory agencies.
  `(2) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS- The Chairman may--
  `(A) designate who shall serve in the Chairman's absence; and
  `(B) notwithstanding any other provisions of law, may delegate to any
  duly authorized employee, representative, or agent any power vested in
  the Chairman by law.
  `(d) SALARIES AND EXPENSES- The salaries of the Chairman and other employees
  of the Office and all other expenses thereof may be paid from assessments
  levied under this Act, and the funds derived from such assessments may be
  deposited by the Chairman in the same manner as authorized under section
  5240 of the Revised Statutes and shall not be construed to be Government
  Funds or appropriated monies, or subject to apportionment for the purposes
  of chapter 15 of title 31, United States Code, or any other authority. Such
  compensation, other than that of the Chairman, shall be paid without regard
  to the provisions of other laws applicable to officers or employees of
  the United States.
  `(e) AUTHORITIES- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Chairman
  shall have and may exercise all functions which the Chairman of the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Board, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation had or could exercise immediately
  prior to August 11, 1954, or immediately prior to June 24, 1954, which
  are not expressly transferred to or consolidated into the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation, the Resolution Trust Corporation, or the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Agency pursuant to the FIRRE Act.
  `(f) ANNUAL REPORT- The Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank System
  shall make an annual report to Congress.
  `(g) COMMUNICATIONS TO THE CONGRESS- (1) Whenever the Chairman submits any
  budget estimate or request to the President or the Office of Management
  and Budget, he or she shall concurrently transmit copies of that estimate
  or request to the Congress.
  `(2) Whenever the Chairman transmits any legislative recommendations, or
  testimony, or comments on legislation to the President or the Office of
  Management and Budget, he or she shall concurrently transmit copies thereof
  to the Congress. No officer or agency of the United States shall have any
  authority to require the Chairman to submit legislative recommendations,
  or testimony, or comments on legislation to any officer or agency of the
  United States for approval, comments, or review, prior to the submission of
  such recommendations, testimony, or comments to the Congress. In instances
  in which the Chairman voluntarily seeks to obtain the comments or review
  of any officer or agency of the United States, the Chairman shall include a
  description of such actions in the legislative recommendations, testimony,
  or comments on legislation which is transmitted to the Congress.
`SEC. 4A. LIQUIDITY.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The purpose of this section is to provide a means for
  creating meaningful and flexible liquidity in savings associations and
  other members which can be increased when mortgage money is plentiful,
  maintained in easily liquidated instruments, and reduced to add to the
  flow of funds to the mortgage market in periods of credit stringency. More
  flexible liquidity will help support sound mortgage credit and a more
  stable supply of such credit.
  `(b) MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNT- (1) Any institution which is a member of a
  Federal Home Loan Bank or which is a savings association shall maintain
  the aggregate amount of its assets of the following types at not less than
  such amount as, in the opinion of the Chairman, is appropriate:
  `(A) cash;
  `(B) to such extent as the Chairman may approve for the purposes of this
  section, time and savings deposits in Federal Home Loan Banks, institutions
  which are, or are eligible to become, members thereof, and commercial banks;
  `(C) to such extent as the Chairman may so approve, such obligations,
  including such special obligations, of the United States, a State, any
  territory or possession of the United States, or a political subdivision,
  agency, or instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing, and bankers'
  acceptances, as the Chairman may approve;
  `(D) to such extent as the Chairman may so approve, shares or certificates
  of any open-end management investment company which is registered with
  the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act of
  1940 and the portfolio of which is restricted by such investment company's
  investment policy, changeable only if authorized by shareholder vote, solely
  to any of the obligations or other investments enumerated in subparagraphs
  (A) through (C), (F), and (G);
  `(E) balances maintained in a Federal Reserve bank or passed through a
  Federal Home Loan Bank or another depository institution to a Federal
  Reserve bank pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act;
  `(F) to such extent as the Chairman may approve as liquid, highly rated
  corporate debt obligations with 3 years or less remaining until maturity; and
  `(G) to such extent as the Chairman may so approve, highly rated commercial
  paper with 270 days or less remaining until maturity.
  `(2) The requirement prescribed by the Chairman pursuant to this subsection
  (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `liquidity requirement')
  may not be less than 4 percent or more than 10 percent of the obligation
  of the institution on withdrawable accounts and borrowings payable on
  demand or with unexpired maturities of one year or less, or in the case
  of institutions which are insurance companies, such other base or bases as
  the Chairman may determine to be comparable. The Chairman shall prescribe
  rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this subsection.
  `(c) CALCULATION- The amount of any institution's liquidity requirement,
  and any deficiency in compliance therewith, shall be calculated as the
  Chairman shall prescribe. The Chairman may prescribe different liquidity
  requirements, within the limitations specified herein, for different classes
  of institutions, and for such purposes the Chairman is authorized to classify
  institutions according to type, size, location, rate of withdrawals, or,
  without limitation by or on the foregoing, on such other basis or bases
  of differentiation as the Chairman may deem to be reasonably necessary or
  appropriate for effectuating the purposes of this section.
  `(d) DEFICIENCY ASSESSMENTS- For any deficiency in compliance with
  the liquidity requirements, the Chairman may, in his or her discretion,
  assess a penalty consisting of the payment by the institution of such sum
  as may be assessed by the Chairman but not in excess of a rate equal to the
  highest rate on Federal Home Loan Bank advances of one year or less, plus
  2 percent per annum, on the amount of the deficiency for the period with
  respect to which the deficiency existed. Any penalty assessed under this
  subsection against a member shall be paid to the Federal Home Loan Bank
  of which it is a member, and any such penalty assessed against a savings
  association which is not member shall be paid to the Chairman. The right
  to assess or to recover, or to assess and recover, any such penalty is not
  abated or affected by an association's ceasing to be a member or ceasing to
  be insured. The Chairman may authorize or require that, at any time before
  collection thereof, and whether before or after the bringing of any action
  or other legal proceeding, the obtaining of any judgment or other recovery,
  or the issuance or levy of any execution or other legal process therefor, and
  with or without consideration, any such penalty or recovery be compromised,
  remitted, or mitigated in whole or part. The penalties authorized under this
  subsection are in addition to all remedies and sanctions otherwise available.
  `(e) REDUCTION OR SUSPENSION- Whenever the Chairman deems it advisable in
  order to enable an institution to meet withdrawals or to pay obligations,
  the Chairman may, to such extent and subject to such conditions as it
  may prescribe, permit the institution to reduce its liquidity below the
  minimum amount. Whenever the Chairman determines that conditions of national
  emergency or unusual economic stress exist, the Chairman may suspend any
  part or all of the liquidity requirements hereunder for such period as the
  Chairman may prescribe. Any such suspension, unless sooner terminated by
  its terms or by the Chairman, shall terminate at the expiration of ninety
  days next after its commencement, but nothing in this sentence prevents the
  Chairman from again exercising, before, at, or after any such termination,
  the authority conferred by this subsection.
  `(f) REGULATING AUTHORITY- The Chairman is authorized to issue such rules
  and regulations, including definitions of terms used in this section,
  to make such examinations, and to conduct such investigations as it deems
  necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this section. The
  reasonable cost of any such examination or investigation, as determined
  by the Chairman, shall be paid by the association.
`SEC. 4B. APPLICABILITY.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Sections 1, 2, 3, 5(d), 5(i), 5(o), 5(p), 5(q), 5(s),
  5(t), 5(u), 5(v), 5(w), 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, and 12, of this Act apply to all
  savings associations.
  `(b) Sections 5(a), 5(b), 5(c), 5(e), 5(f), 5(g), 5(h), 5(j), 5(l), 5(m),
  5(n), 5(r), and 8 of this Act apply to Federal savings associations.
`SEC. 5. FEDERAL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- In order to provide thrift institutions for the deposit or
  investment of funds and for the extension of credit for homes and other goods
  and services, the Chairman is authorized, under such rules and regulations as
  the Chairman may prescribe, to provide for the organization, incorporation,
  examination, operation, and regulation of associations to be known as
  Federal savings and loan associations, or Federal savings banks, and to
  issue charters therefor, giving primary consideration to the best practices
  of thrift institutions in the United States. The lending and investment
  authorities are conferred by this section to provide such institutions the
  flexibility necessary to maintain their role of providing credit for housing
  consistent with the safe and sound operation of Federal savings associations.
  `(b) DEPOSITS- (1)(A) A Federal savings association may raise capital in
  the form of such savings deposits, shares, or other accounts, for fixed,
  minimum, or indefinite periods of time (all of which are referred to in this
  section as savings accounts), or in the form of such demand accounts of those
  persons or organizations that have a business, corporate, commercial, or
  agricultural loan relationship with the association as are authorized by its
  charter or by regulations of the Chairman, and may issue such passbooks, time
  certificates of deposit, or other evidence of accounts as are so authorized.
  `(B) A Federal savings association may accept a demand account from itself
  and may also accept demand accounts from a commercial, corporate, business,
  or agricultural entity for the sole purpose of effectuating payments thereto
  by a nonbusiness customer. A Federal savings association may not pay interest
  on a demand account. All savings accounts and demand accounts shall have
  the same priority upon liquidation. Holders of accounts and obligors of a
  Federal savings association shall, to such extent as may be provided by its
  charter or by regulations of the Chairman, be members of the association, and
  shall have such voting rights and such other rights as are thereby provided.
  `(C) Except as may be otherwise authorized by a Federal savings association's
  charter or regulation of the Chairman in the case of savings accounts for
  fixed or minimum terms of not less than 14 days, the payment of any savings
  account shall be subject to the right of the Federal savings association
  to require such advance notice, not less than fourteen days, as shall
  be provided for by the charter of the association or the regulations of
  the Chairman.
  `(D) The payment of withdrawals from accounts in the event a Federal savings
  association does not pay all withdrawals in full (subject to the right of the
  association, where applicable, to require notice) shall be subject to such
  rules and procedures as may be prescribed by the association's charter or
  by regulation of the Chairman, but any Federal savings association which,
  except as authorized in writing by the Chairman, fails to make full payment
  of any withdrawal when due shall be deemed to be in an unsafe or unsound
  condition to transact business within the meaning of subsection (d) of
  this section.
  `(E) Accounts may be subject to check or to withdrawal or transfer on
  negotiable or transferable or other order or authorization to the Federal
  savings association, as the Chairman may by regulation provide.
  `(F) Notwithstanding any limitation of this section, Federal savings
  associations may establish remote service units for the purpose of crediting
  savings or demand accounts, debiting such accounts, crediting payments on
  loans, and the disposition of related financial transactions, as provided
  in regulations prescribed by the Chairman.
  `(2) To such extent as the Chairman may authorize by regulation or advice
  in writing, a Federal savings association may borrow, may give security,
  may be surety as defined by the Chairman and may issue such notes, bonds,
  debentures, or other obligations, or other securities, including capital
  stock, as the Chairman may so authorize.
  `(3) Subject to regulation by the Chairman but without regard to any other
  provision of this subsection, any Federal savings association whose general
  reserves, surplus, and undivided profits aggregate a sum in excess of 5
  percent of its withdrawable accounts is authorized to borrow funds from a
  State mortgage finance agency of the State in which the head office of such
  association is situated to the same extent as State law authorizes a savings
  association organized under the laws of such State to borrow from the State
  mortgage finance agency, except that such a Federal savings association may
  not make any loan of such funds at an interest rate which exceeds by more
  than 1 3/4  percent per annum the interest rate paid to the State mortgage
  finance agency on the obligations issued to obtain the funds so borrowed.
  `(4) A Federal savings association is authorized, subject to such regulations
  as the Chairman may prescribe, to issue credit cards, extend credit in
  connection therewith, and otherwise engage in or participate in credit
  card operations.
  `(5)(A) In accordance with rules and regulations issued by the Chairman,
  mutual capital certificates may be issued and sold directly to subscribers
  or through underwriters, and such certificates shall constitute part of the
  general reserve and net worth of the issuing Federal savings association. The
  Chairman, in its rules and regulations relating to the issuance and sale
  of mutual capital certificates, shall provide that such certificates--
  `(i) shall be subordinate to all savings accounts, savings certificates,
  and debt obligations;
  `(ii) shall constitute a claim in liquidation on the general reserves,
  surplus, and undivided profits of the Federal savings association remaining
  after the payment in full of all savings accounts, savings certificates,
  and debt obligations;
  `(iii) shall be entitled to the payment of dividends; and
  `(iv) may have a fixed or variable dividend rate.
  `(B) Net worth certificates issued by a Federal savings association pursuant
  to section 406(f) of the National Housing Act shall constitute part of
  the general reserves and net worth of the Federal savings association,
  in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Chairman.
  `(C) The Chairman shall provide in rules and regulations for charging
  losses to mutual capital certificates, net worth certificates issued
  pursuant to section 406(f) of the National Housing Act, reserves, and
  other net worth accounts.
  `(c) LOANS AND INVESTMENTS- A Federal savings association may to such
  extent, and subject to such rules and regulations as the Chairman may
  prescribe from time to time, invest in, sell, or otherwise deal with the
  following loans, or other investments:
  `(1) LOANS OR INVESTMENTS WITHOUT PERCENTAGE OF ASSETS LIMITATION- Without
  limitation as a percentage of assets, the following are permitted:
  `(A) ACCOUNT LOANS- Loans on the security of its savings accounts and
  loans specifically related to transaction accounts.
  `(B) RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY LOANS- Loans on the security of liens upon
  residential real property.
  `(C) UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SECURITIES- Investments in obligations of,
  or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States.
  `(D) FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK AND FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION
  SECURITIES- Investments in the stock or bonds of a Federal home loan bank
  or in the stock of the Federal National Mortgage Association.
  `(E) FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION INSTRUMENTS- Investments in
  mortgages, obligations, or other securities which are or ever have been
  sold by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section
  305 or 306 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act.
  `(F) OTHER GOVERNMENT SECURITIES- Investments in obligations, participations,
  securities, or other instruments of, or issued by, or fully guaranteed as
  to principal and interest by, the Federal National Mortgage Association,
  the Student Loan Marketing Association or the Government National Mortgage
  Association, or any other agency of the United States and an association may
  issue and sell securities which are guaranteed pursuant to section 306(g)
  of the National Housing Act.
  `(G) DEPOSITS- Investments in time deposits, savings accounts certificates,
  or accounts of any financial institution, the deposits of which are insured
  by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
  `(H) STATE SECURITIES- Investments in obligations of, or issued by, any
  State or political subdivision thereof (including any agency, corporation,
  or instrumentality of a State or political subdivision), except that
  a Federal savings association may not invest more than 10 percent of
  its capital and surplus in obligations of any one issuer, exclusive of
  investments in general obligations of any issuer.
  `(I) PURCHASE OF INSURED LOANS- Purchase of loans secured by liens on
  improved real estate which are insured under provisions of the National
  Housing Act, or insured as provided in the Servicemen's Readjustment Act
  of 1944 or chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code.
  `(J) HOME IMPROVEMENT AND MANUFACTURED HOME LOANS- Loans made for the repair,
  equipping, alteration, or improvement of any residential real property,
  and loans made for the purpose of manufactured home financing.
  `(K) INSURED LOANS TO FINANCE THE PURCHASE OF FEE SIMPLE- Loans as to which
  the Federal savings association has the benefit of insurance under section
  240 of the National Housing Act, or of a commitment or agreement therefor.
  `(L) LOANS TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, BROKERS, AND DEALERS- Loans to
  financial institutions with respect to which the United States or an agency
  or instrumentality thereof has any function of examination or supervision,
  or to any broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission, secured by loans, obligations, or investments in which the
  Federal savings association has the statutory authority to invest directly.
  `(M) LIQUIDITY INVESTMENTS- Investments which, at the time of making, are
  assets eligible for inclusion toward the satisfaction of any liquidity
  requirement imposed by the Chairman pursuant to section 5A of the
  Federal Home Loan Bank Act, but only to the extent that the investment
  is permitted to be so included under regulations of the Chairman or is
  otherwise authorized.
  `(N) INVESTMENT IN THE NATIONAL HOUSING PARTNERSHIP CORPORATION,
  PARTNERSHIPS, AND JOINT VENTURES- Investments in shares of stock issued by
  a corporation authorized to be created pursuant to title IX of the Housing
  and Urban Development Act of 1968, and investments in any partnership,
  limited partnership, or joint venture formed pursuant to section 907(a)
  or 907(c) of such Act.
  `(O) HOUSING AND LAND AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT INSURED OR GUARANTEED
  INVESTMENTS- Loans (i) secured by mortgages as to which the Federal
  savings association has the benefit of insurance under title X of the
  National Housing Act or of a commitment or agreement for such insurance,
  or (ii) as to which the Federal savings association has the benefit of any
  guarantee under title IV of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968
  or under part B of the National Urban Policy and New Community Development
  Act of 1970 or under section 802 of the Housing and Community Development
  Act of 1974, or of a commitment or agreement therefor.
  `(P) STATE HOUSING CORPORATION INVESTMENTS- Investments in, commitments to
  invest in, loans to, or commitments to lend to any State housing corporation,
  provided that such obligations or loans are secured directly, or indirectly
  through an agent or fiduciary, by a first lien on improved real estate
  which is insured under the provisions of the National Housing Act and that
  in the event of default, the holder of such obligations or loans would
  have the right directly, or indirectly through an agent or fiduciary, to
  cause to be subject to the satisfaction of such obligations or loans the
  real estate described in the first lien or the insurance proceeds under
  the National Housing Act.
  `(Q) INVESTMENT COMPANIES- A Federal savings association may invest
  in, redeem, or hold shares or certificates in any open-end management
  investment company which is registered with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the portfolio
  of which is restricted by such management company's investment policy,
  changeable only if authorized by shareholder vote, solely to any such
  investments as a Federal savings association by law or regulation may,
  without limitation as to percentage of assets, invest in, sell, redeem,
  hold, or otherwise deal with. The Chairman shall prescribe rules and
  regulations to implement the provisions of this subparagraph.
  `(R) MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES- Investments in securities that--
  `(i) are offered and sold pursuant to section 4(5) of the Securities Act
  of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(5)); or
  `(ii) are mortgage related securities (as that term is defined in section
  3(a)(41) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(41)),
  subject to such regulations as the Chairman may prescribe, including
  regulations prescribing minimum size of the issue (at the time of initial
  distribution) or minimum aggregate sales price, or both.
  `(2) LOANS OR INVESTMENTS LIMITED TO A PERCENTAGE OF ASSETS OR CAPITAL-
  The following loans or investments are permitted, but authority conferred
  in the following subparagraphs is limited to not in excess of the following
  percentages of the assets of the association for each subparagraph:
  `(A) COMMERCIAL AND OTHER LOANS- Secured or unsecured loans for commercial,
  corporate, business, or agricultural purposes. No Federal savings
  association may make loans to one borrower under the authority provided
  by this subparagraph in excess of the amount a national bank having an
  identical total capital and surplus could lend such borrower. The aggregate
  amount of loans under this paragraph shall not exceed 10 percent of the
  assets of a Federal savings association or savings bank thereafter.
  `(B) NONRESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY LOANS- The Chairman may not permit a
  savings association to have outstanding such loans, in the aggregate,
  at any one time, in excess of 400 percent of the savings association's
  capital (as determined under subsection (t)), unless he finds that such
  additional amount will not present a significant risk to the safe and
  sound operation of the association or class of associations concerned,
  and that the increased authority is consistent with prudent operating
  practices. If the Chairman authorizes any savings association to exceed
  the 400 percent of capital limitation described in the preceding sentence,
  he shall monitor the condition, including the lending activities, of such
  association closely to assure compliance with this subparagraph and all
  other applicable laws and regulations.
  `(C) INVESTMENTS IN PERSONALITY- Investments in tangible personal property,
  including, without limitation, vehicles, manufactured homes, machinery,
  equipment, or furniture, for rental or sale, but such investment may not
  exceed 10 percent of the assets of the Federal savings association.
  `(D) CONSUMER LOANS AND CERTAIN SECURITIES- A Federal savings association
  may make secured or unsecured loans for personal, family, or household
  purposes, including loans reasonably incident to the provision of such
  credit, and may invest in, sell, or hold commercial paper and corporate
  debt securities, as defined and approved by the Chairman, except that
  loans of an association under this subparagraph may not exceed 30 percent
  of the assets of the association.
  `(3) LOANS OR INVESTMENTS LIMITED TO 5 PERCENT OF ASSETS- The following
  loans or investments are permitted, but the authority conferred in the
  following subparagraphs is limited to not in excess of 5 percent of assets
  of the Federal savings association for each subparagraph:
  `(A) EDUCATION LOANS- Loans made for the payment of educational expenses.
  `(B) COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS- Investments in real property and
  obligations secured by liens on real property located within a geographic
  area or neighborhood receiving concentrated development assistance by a
  local government under title I of the Housing and Community Development
  Act of 1974, except that no investment under this subparagraph in such real
  property may exceed an aggregate investment of 2 percent of the assets of
  the Federal savings association.
  `(C) NONCONFORMING LOANS- Loans upon the security of or respecting real
  property or interests therein used for primarily residential or farm
  purposes that do not comply with the limitations of this subsection.
  `(D) CONSTRUCTION LOANS WITHOUT SECURITY- Investments not exceeding the
  greater of (i) the sum of its surplus, undivided profits, and reserves, or
  (ii) 5 percent of the assets of the association, in loans the principal
  purpose of which is to provide financing with respect to what is or is
  expected to become primarily residential real estate where (I) the Federal
  savings association relies substantially for repayment on the borrower's
  general credit standing and forecast of income without other security,
  or (II) the Federal savings association relies on other assurances for
  repayment, including but not limited to a guaranty or similar obligation of
  a third party. Investments under this subsection shall not be included in
  any percentage of assets or other percentage referred to in this subsection.
  `(4) OTHER LOANS AND INVESTMENTS- The following additional loans and other
  investments to the extend authorized below:
  `(A) BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CREDIT CORPORATIONS- A Federal savings association
  whose general reserves, surplus, and undivided profits aggregate a sum in
  excess of 5 percent of its withdrawable accounts is authorized to invest
  in, lend to, or to commit itself to lend to, any business development
  credit corporation incorporated in the State in which the home office
  of the association is located in the same manner and to the same extent
  as savings associations chartered by such State are authorized, but the
  aggregate amount of such investments, loans, and commitments of any such
  Federal savings association shall not exceed one-half of 1 percent of the
  total outstanding loans of the association or $250,000, whichever is less.
  `(B) SERVICE CORPORATIONS- Investments in the capital stock, obligations,
  or other securities of any corporation organized under the laws of the State
  in which the home office of the Federal savings association is located, if
  the entire capital stock of such corporation is available for purchase only
  by savings associations of such State and by Federal associations having
  their home offices in such State, but no Federal savings association may
  make any investment under this subparagraph if its aggregate outstanding
  investment under this subparagraph would exceed 3 percent of the assets
  of the association, except that not less than one-half of the investment
  permitted under this subparagraph which exceeds 1 percent of assets shall be
  used primarily for community, inner-city, and community development purposes.
  `(C) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE INVESTMENTS- Investments in housing project
  loans having the benefit of any guaranty under section 221 of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 or loans having the benefit of any guarantee under
  section 224 of such Act, or any commitment or agreement with respect to such
  loans made pursuant to either of such sections and in the share capital
  and capital reserve of the Inter-American Savings and Loan Bank. This
  authority extends to the acquisition, holding, and disposition of loans
  having the benefit of any guaranty under section 221 or 222 of such Act
  as hereafter amended or extended, or of any commitment or agreement for
  any such guaranty. Investments under this subparagraph shall not exceed,
  in the case of any Federal savings association, 1 percent of the assets
  of such association.
  `(D) SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES- A Federal savings association
  may invest in stock, obligations, or other securities of any small business
  investment company formed pursuant to section 301(d) of the Small Business
  Investment Act of 1958, for the purpose of aiding members of the Federal Home
  Loan Bank System, but no Federal savings association may make any investment
  under this subparagraph if its aggregate outstanding investment under this
  subparagraph would exceed 1 percent of the assets of such association.
  `(5) DEFINITIONS- As used in this subsection--
  `(A) the terms `residential real property' or `residential real estate' mean
  leaseholds, homes (including condominiums and cooperatives, except that in
  connection with loans on individual cooperative units, such loans shall be
  adequately secured as defined by the Chairman) and, combinations of homes
  or dwelling units and business property, involving only minor or incidental
  business use, or property to be improved by construction of such structures;
  `(B) the term `loans' includes obligations and extensions or advances of
  credit; and any reference to a loan or investment includes an interest in
  such a loan or investment; and
  `(C) the term `State' means any State of the United States, the District
  of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the
  Canal Zone, Guam, American Samoa, and any territory or possession of the
  United States.
  `(d) REGULATORY AUTHORITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL-
  `(A) ENFORCEMENT- The Chairman shall have power to enforce this section,
  section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and rules and regulations
  made hereunder. In the enforcement of any provision of this section or
  rules and regulations made hereunder, or any other law or regulation,
  or in any other action, suit, or proceeding to which it is a party or in
  which it is interested, and in the administration of conservatorships and
  receiverships, the Chairman is authorized to act in its own name and through
  its own attorneys. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Chairman shall
  be subject to suit (other than suits on claims for money damages) by any
  Federal savings association or director or officer thereof with respect
  to any matter under this section or any other applicable law, or rules or
  regulations thereunder, in the United States district court for the judicial
  district in which the home office of the savings association is located,
  or in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, and
  the Chairman may be served with process in the manner prescribed by the
  Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
  `(B) ANCILLARY PROVISIONS- (i) In making examinations of savings
  associations, examiners appointed by the Chairman shall have power to
  make such examinations of the affairs of all affiliates of such savings
  associations as shall be necessary to disclose fully the relations between
  such savings associations and their affiliates and the effect of such
  relations upon such savings associations. For purposes of this subsection,
  the term `affiliate' shall have the same meaning as where used in section
  2(b) of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 221a(b)), except that the term
  `member bank' in said section 2(b) shall be deemed to refer to a savings
  association.
  `(ii) In the course of any examination of any savings association, upon
  request by any authorized personnel or agents of the Chairman of the
  Federal Home Loan Bank System, prompt and complete access shall be given
  to all savings association officers, directors, employees, and agents;
  and to all relevant books, records, or documents of any type.
  `(iii) Upon request made in the course of supervision or oversight of
  any savings association, for the purpose of acting on any application or
  determining the condition of any savings association, including whether
  operations are being conducted safely, soundly, or in compliance with
  charters, laws, rules, regulations, directives, written agreements,
  or conditions imposed in writing in connection with the granting of an
  application or other request, any authorized personnel or agents of the
  Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank System shall be given prompt and
  complete access to all savings association officers, directors, employees,
  and agents; and to all relevant books, records, or documents of any type.
  `(iv) In the event that prompt and complete access upon request is not given
  as required in this subsection, any authorized personnel or agent of the
  Chairman shall be authorized to apply to the United States district court
  for the judicial district or the United States court in any territory in
  which the principal office of the institution is located, or in which the
  person denying such access resides or carries on business for an injunction
  prohibiting denial of access to persons or prohibiting the withholding
  of information and may seek an order requiring that access to persons or
  information be promptly provided.'.
  `(v) In connection with examinations of savings associations and affiliates
  thereof, the Chairman or his or her designated representatives shall have
  power to administer oaths and affirmations and to examine and to take and
  preserve testimony under oath as to any matter in respect of the affairs
  or ownership of any such savings association or affiliate thereof, and to
  issue subpoenas and subpenas duces tecum, and, for the enforcement thereof,
  to apply to the United States district court for the judicial district or
  the United States court in any territory in which the principal office of
  the savings association or affiliate thereof is located, or in which the
  witness resides or carries on business. Such courts shall have jurisdiction
  and power to order and require compliance with any such subpoena.
  `(vi) In the course of or in connection with any proceeding under this
  section, the Chairman or his designated representatives, including any
  person designated to conduct any hearing under this section, shall have
  power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take or cause to be taken
  depositions, and to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpenas and subpenas
  duces tecum; and the Chairman is empowered to make rules and regulations
  with respect to any such proceedings. The attendance of witnesses and the
  production of documents provided for in this subsection may be required
  from any place in any State or in any territory at any designated place
  where such proceeding is being conducted. Any party to proceedings under
  this section may apply to the United States District Court for the District
  of Columbia, or the United States district court for the judicial district
  or the United States court in any territory in which such proceeding is
  being conducted, or where the witness resides or carries on business,
  for enforcement of any subpena or subpena duces tecum issued pursuant to
  this subsection or section 10(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act,
  and such courts shall have jurisdiction and power to order and require
  compliance therewith. Witnesses subpenaed under this section shall be
  paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district
  courts of the United States. All expenses of the Chairman in connection
  with this section shall be considered as nonadministrative expenses. Any
  court having jurisdiction of any proceeding instituted under this section
  by a savings association, or a director or officer thereof, may allow to
  any such party such reasonable expenses and attorneys' fees as it deems
  just and proper; and such expenses and fees shall be paid by the savings
  association or from its assets.
  `(C) References in this subsection to savings account holders and to
  members of associations shall be deemed to be references to holders of
  withdrawable accounts in institutions over which the Chairman has any
  statutory power of examination or supervision as provided in this paragraph,
  and references therein to boards of directors of associations shall be
  deemed to be references to boards of directors or other governing boards
  of such institutions.
  `(2) RECEIVERSHIPS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The grounds for the appointment of a conservator or
  receiver for a Federal savings association shall be one or more of the
  following: (i) insolvency in that the assets of the association are less
  than its obligations to its creditors and others, including its members;
  (ii) substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to any violation
  or violations of law, rules, or regulations, or to any unsafe or unsound
  practice or practices; (iii) an unsafe or unsound condition to transact
  business; (iv) willful violation of a cease-and-desist order which has
  become final; (v) concealment of books, papers, records, or assets of the
  savings association or refusal to submit books, papers, records, or affairs
  of the association for inspection to any examiner or to any lawful agent
  of the Chairman; (vi)(I) the association is not likely to be able to meet
  the demands of its depositors or pay its obligations in the normal course
  of business, and (II) there is no reasonable prospect that the association
  will be able to meet such demands or pay such obligations without Federal
  assistance; (vii)(I) the association has incurred or is likely to incur
  losses that will deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and (II)
  there is no reasonable prospect for the replenishment of the capital of the
  association without Federal assistance; or (viii) the failure to obtain a
  bank charter within the 3-year period required by section 10(m)(4) of this
  Act. The Chairman shall have exclusive power and jurisdiction to appoint a
  conservator or receiver. If, in the opinion of the Chairman, a ground for
  the appointment of a conservator or receiver as herein provided exists, the
  Chairman is authorized to appoint ex parte and without notice a conservator
  or receiver for the association. In the event of such appointment, the
  association may, within 30 days thereafter, bring an action in the United
  States district court for the judicial district in which the home office of
  such association is located, or in the United States District Court for the
  District of Columbia, for an order requiring the Chairman to remove such
  conservator or receiver, and the court shall upon the merits dismiss such
  action or direct the Chairman to remove such conservator or receiver. Upon
  the commencement of such an action, the court having jurisdiction of any
  other action or proceeding authorized under this subsection to which the
  association is a party shall stay such action or proceeding during the
  pendency of the action for removal of the conservator or receiver.
  `(B) GROUNDS FOR APPOINTMENT- In addition to the foregoing provisions,
  the Chairman may, without any requirement of notice, hearing, or other
  action, appoint a conservator or receiver for a Federal savings association
  if (i) the association, by resolution of its board of directors or of
  its members, consents to such appointment, or (ii) the association is
  removed from membership in any Federal home loan bank, or its status as
  an institution the accounts of which are insured by the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation is terminated.
  `(C) APPOINTMENT- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, State or
  Federal, or the constitution of any State, or of this section, the Chairman
  shall have power and jurisdiction to appoint the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation as sole conservator or receiver of an insured State savings
  association, if the Chairman determines that any of the following grounds
  for the appointment of a conservator or receiver exist with respect to
  such financial institution:
  `(i) insolvency in that the assets of the financial institution are less
  than its obligations to its creditors and others;
  `(ii) substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to any violation
  or violations of law, rules, or regulations, or to any unsafe or unsound
  practice or practices;
  `(iii) an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business;
  `(iv)(I) the association is not likely to be able to meet the demands of
  its depositors or pay its obligations in the normal course of business,
  and (II) there is no reasonable prospect that the association will be able
  to meet such demands or pay such obligations without Federal assistance; or
  `(v)(I) the savings association has incurred or is likely to incur losses
  that will deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and (II)
  there is no reasonable prospect for the replenishment of the capital of
  the savings association without Federal assistance.
  `(D) POWERS- In such cases the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
  have powers and duties specified in subsection (c) and in subsection (l)
  of section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(E) APPROVAL OF STATE OFFICIAL- (i) The authority conferred by subparagraph
  (C) shall not be exercised without the written approval of the State
  official having jurisdiction over the insured State financial institution
  that one or more of the grounds specified for such exercise exist.
  `(ii) If such approval has not been received within 30 days of receipt of
  notice to the State that the Chairman has determined such grounds exist,
  and the Chairman has responded in writing to the State's written reasons,
  if any, for withholding approval, then the Chairman may proceed without
  State approval.
  `(F) COURT ACTION- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no
  court may take any action for or toward the removal of any conservator or
  receiver, or, except at the instance of the Chairman, restrain or affect
  the exercise of powers or functions of a conservator or receiver.
  `(G) POWERS- A conservator shall have all the powers of the members, the
  stockholders, the directors, and the officers of the association and shall
  be authorized to operate the association in its own name or to conserve
  its assets in the manner and to the extent authorized by the Chairman. The
  Chairman shall appoint only the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  as conservator or receiver for a savings association for the purpose
  of liquidation or winding up the affairs of a savings association, and
  said Corporation shall have power to buy at its own sale as conservator or
  receiver, subject to approval by the Chairman. The Chairman may, without any
  requirement of notice, hearing, or other action, replace a conservator with
  another conservator or with a receiver, but any such replacement shall not
  affect any right which the association may have to obtain judicial review
  of the original appointment, except that any removal under this paragraph
  (6) shall be removal of the conservator or receiver in office at the time
  of such removal.
  `(H) DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT FOR THOSE ACTING ON BEHALF OF CONSERVATOR- A
  conservator shall require that any independent contractor, consultant, or
  counsel employed by the conservator in connection with the conservatorship of
  a savings association pursuant to this section shall fully disclose to all
  parties with which such contractor, consultant, or counsel is negotiating,
  any limitation on the authority of such contractor, consultant, or counsel
  to make legally binding representations on behalf of the conservator.
  `(3) RULES AND REGULATIONS- The Chairman shall have power to make rules
  and regulations for the reorganization, consolidation, liquidation, and
  dissolution of savings associations, for the merger of insured savings
  associations with insured savings associations, for savings associations in
  conservatorship and receivership, and for the conduct of conservatorships
  and receiverships. The Chairman may, by regulation or otherwise, provide for
  the exercise of functions by members, stockholders, directors, or officers
  of a savings association during conservatorship and receivership. Until the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation exercises its authority under section
  11(l) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the authority conferred by this
  paragraph shall also apply to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  as conservator or receiver or to the institution with respect to which it
  was appointed.
  `(4) REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH CONSERVATOR'S DEMAND- Whenever a conservator
  or receiver appointed by the Chairman demands possession of the property,
  business, and assets of any savings association, or of any part thereof,
  the refusal by any director, officer, employee, or agent of such association
  to comply with the demand shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
  $5,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.
  `(5) DEFINITIONS- (A) As used in this subsection, the term `savings
  association' includes any former savings association that retains deposits
  insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation notwithstanding
  termination of its status as an institution insured by such corporation
  and any Federal savings bank that is a member of the Bank Insurance Fund,
  and any former Federal savings bank that retains deposits insured by the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation notwithstanding termination of its
  status as an insured financial institution.
  `(B) References in this subsection to savings account holders and to members
  of savings associations shall be deemed to be references to holders of
  withdrawable accounts in savings institutions over which the Chairman
  has any statutory power of examination or supervision as provided in
  this paragraph, and references therein to boards of directors of savings
  associations shall be deemed to be references to boards of directors or
  other governing boards of such associations.
  `(6) COMPLIANCE WITH MONETARY TRANSACTION RECORDKEEPING AND REPORT
  REQUIREMENTS-
  `(A) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REQUIRED- The Chairman shall prescribe
  regulations requiring savings associations to establish and maintain
  procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor the compliance of
  such associations with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of
  title 31, United States Code.
  `(B) EXAMINATIONS OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS TO INCLUDE REVIEW OF COMPLIANCE
  PROCEDURES-
  `(i) IN GENERAL- Each examination of a savings association by the Chairman
  shall include a review of the procedures required to be established and
  maintained under subparagraph (A).
  `(ii) EXAM REPORT REQUIREMENT- The report of examination shall describe
  any problem with the procedures maintained by the association.
  `(C) ORDER TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS- If the Chairman determines that
  a savings association--
  `(i) has failed to establish and maintain the procedures described in
  subparagraph (A); or
  `(ii) has failed to correct any problem with the procedures maintained
  by such association which was previously reported to the association by
  the Chairman,
the Chairman shall issue an order in the manner prescribed in paragraph (2)
or (3) requiring such association to cease and desist from its violation of
this paragraph or regulations prescribed under this paragraph.
  `(e) CHARACTER AND RESPONSIBILITY- No charter shall be granted except to
  persons of good character and responsibility, nor unless in the judgment of
  the Chairman a necessity exists for such an institution in the community to
  be served, nor unless there is a reasonable probability of its usefulness
  and success, nor unless the same can be established without undue injury
  to properly conducted existing local thrift and home-financing institutions.
  `(f) FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP- Each Federal savings association,
  upon its incorporation, shall become automatically a member of the Federal
  Home Loan Bank of the district in which it is located, or if convenience
  shall require and the Chairman approve, shall become a member of a Federal
  Home Loan Bank of an adjoining district. Such associations shall qualify
  for such membership in the manner provided in the Federal Home Loan Bank
  Act with respect to other members.
  `(g) PREFERRED SHARES- The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized on behalf
  of the United States to subscribe for preferred shares in Federal savings
  associations which shall be preferred as to the assets of the association
  and which shall be entitled to a dividend, if earned, after payment of
  expenses and provision for reasonable reserves, to the same extent as
  other shareholders. It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury
  to subscribe for such preferred shares upon the request of the Chairman;
  but the subscription by him to the shares of any one Federal savings
  association shall not exceed $100,000, and no such subscription shall be
  called for unless in the judgment of the Chairman the funds are necessary
  for the encouragement of local home financing in the community to be served
  and for the reasonable financing of homes in such community. Payment
  on such shares may be called from time to time by the Federal savings
  association, subject to the approval of the Chairman and the Secretary
  of the Treasury; but the amount paid in by the Secretary of the Treasury
  shall at no time exceed the amount paid in by all other shareholders,
  and the aggregate amount of shares held by the Secretary of the Treasury
  shall not exceed at any time the aggregate amount of shares held by all
  other shareholders. To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to make such
  subscriptions when called there is hereby authorized to be appropriated,
  out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of
  $100,000,000, to be immediately available and to remain available until
  expended. Each Federal savings association shall issue receipts for such
  payments by the Secretary of the Treasury in such form as may be approved
  by the Chairman, and such receipts shall be evidence of the interest of
  the United States in such preferred shares to the extent of the amount
  so paid. Each Federal savings association shall make provision for the
  retirement of its preferred shares held by the Secretary of the Treasury,
  and beginning at the expiration of 5 years from the time of the investment
  in such shares, the association shall set aside one third of the receipts
  from its investing and borrowing shareholders to be used for the purpose
  of such retirement. In case of the liquidation of any Federal savings
  association the shares held by the Secretary of the Treasury shall be
  retired at par before any payments are made to other shareholders.
  `(h) TAXATION- No State, county, municipal, or local taxing authority
  shall impose any tax on Federal savings associations or their franchise,
  capital, reserves, surplus, loans, or income greater than that imposed
  by such authority on other similar local mutual or cooperative thrift and
  home financing institutions.
  `(i) CONVERSIONS- (1) Any institution which is, or is eligible to become, a
  member of a Federal home loan bank may convert itself into a Federal savings
  association or Federal savings bank under this Act (and in so doing may
  change directly from the mutual form to the stock form, or from the stock
  form to the mutual form), but such conversion shall be subject to such
  rules and regulations as the Chairman shall prescribe, and thereafter the
  converted Federal savings association shall be entitled to all the benefits
  of this section and shall be subject to examination and regulation to the
  same extent as other associations incorporated pursuant to this Act.
  `(2)(A) No savings association may convert from the mutual to the stock
  form, or from the stock form to the mutual form, except in accordance with
  the rules and regulations of the Chairman.
  `(B) Any aggrieved person may obtain review of a final action of the
  Chairman which approves, with or without conditions, or disapproves a
  plan of conversion pursuant to this subsection only by complying with the
  provisions of subsection (d)(1)(A) of section 5 of this Act within the
  time limit and in the manner therein prescribed, which provisions shall
  apply in all respects as if such final action were an order the review of
  which is therein provided for, except that such time limit shall commence
  upon publication of notice of such final action in the Federal Register or
  upon the giving of such general notice of such final action as is required
  by or approved under regulations of the Chairman, whichever is later.
  `(C) Any Federal savings association may change its designation from a
  Federal savings and loan association to a Federal savings bank, or the
  reverse.
  `(3)(A) Any Federal savings association may convert itself into a savings
  and loan or savings bank type of institution organized pursuant to the laws
  of the State, district, commonwealth, or territory (hereinafter referred
  to in this section as the `State') in which the principal office of such
  Federal savings association is located if--
  `(i) the State permits the conversion of any savings and loan or savings
  bank type of institution of such State into a Federal savings association;
  `(ii) such conversion of a Federal savings association into such a State
  institution is determined upon the vote in favor of such conversion cast in
  person or by proxy at a special meeting of members or stockholders called
  to consider such action, specified by the law of the State in which the
  home office of the Federal savings association is located, as required
  by such law for a State-chartered institution to convert itself into a
  Federal savings association, but in no event upon a vote of less than
  51 percent of all the votes cast at such meeting, and upon compliance
  with other requirements reciprocally equivalent to the requirements of
  such State law for the conversion of a State-chartered institution into
  a Federal savings association;
  `(iii) notice of the meeting to vote on conversion shall be given as
  herein provided and no other notice thereof shall be necessary; the
  notice shall expressly state that such meeting is called to vote thereon,
  as well as the time and place thereof, and such notice shall be mailed,
  postage prepaid, at least thirty and not more than sixty days prior to
  the date of the meeting, to each member or stockholder of record of the
  Federal savings association at his last address as shown on the books of
  the Federal savings association and the Office of its Chairman;
  `(iv) in the event of dissolution of a mutual savings association after
  conversion, the members or shareholders of the savings association will
  share on a mutual basis in the assets of the association in exact proportion
  to their relative share or account credits;
  `(v) in the event of dissolution of a stock savings association after
  conversion, the stockholders will share on a equitable basis in the assets
  of the association; and
  `(vi) such conversion shall be effective upon the date that all the
  provisions of this Act shall have been fully complied with and upon the
  issuance of a new charter by the State wherein the savings association
  is located.
  `(B)(i) The act of conversion constitutes consent by the institution to be
  bound by all the requirements that the Chairman may legally impose under
  this Act.
  `(ii) The savings association shall upon conversion and thereafter be
  authorized to issue securities in any form currently approved at the time
  of issue by the Chairman for issuance by similar savings associations in
  such State.
  `(iii) If the insurance of accounts is terminated in connection with such
  conversion, the notice and other action shall be taken as provided by law
  and regulations for the termination of insurance of accounts.
  `(4)(A) To the extent authorized by the Chairman--
  `(i) any Federal savings bank chartered as such prior to the enactment
  of this paragraph may continue to make any investment or engage in any
  activity not otherwise authorized under this section, to the degree it
  was permitted to do so as a Federal savings bank prior to such enactment; and
  `(ii) any Federal savings bank organized prior to the enactment of the
  FIRRE Act formerly organized as a mutual savings bank under State law may
  continue to make any investment or engage in any activity not otherwise
  authorized under this section, to the degree it was authorized to do so
  as a mutual savings bank under State law.
  `(B) The authority conferred by this paragraph may be utilized by any
  Federal savings association that acquires, by merger or consolidation,
  a Federal savings bank enjoying grandfathered rights hereunder.
  `(j) SUBSCRIPTION FOR SHARES- In addition to the authority to subscribe
  for preferred shares in Federal savings associations, the Secretary of the
  Treasury is authorized on behalf of the United States to subscribe for any
  amount of full paid income shares in such Federal savings associations, and
  it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to subscribe for such
  full paid income shares upon the request of the Chairman. Payment on such
  shares may be called from time to time by the Federal savings association,
  subject to the approval of said Chairman and the Secretary of the Treasury,
  and such payments shall be made from the funds appropriated pursuant to
  subsection (g) of this section; but the amount paid in by the Secretary
  of the Treasury for shares under this subsection and such subsection (g),
  together shall at no time exceed 75 percent of the total investment in
  the shares of such Federal savings association by the Secretary of the
  Treasury and other shareholders. Each such Federal savings association
  shall issue receipts for such payments by the Secretary of the Treasury
  in such form as may be approved by the Chairman and such receipts shall
  be evidence of the interest of the United States in such full paid income
  shares to the extent of the amount so paid. No request for the repurchase
  of the full paid income shares purchased by the Secretary of the Treasury
  shall be made for a period of 5 years from the date of such purchase, and
  thereafter requests by the Secretary of the Treasury for the repurchase
  of such shares by such Federal savings associations shall be made at the
  discretion of the Chairman; but no such association shall be requested to
  repurchase any such shares in any one year in an amount in excess of 10
  percent of the total amount invested in such shares by the Secretary of
  the Treasury. Such repurchases shall be made in accordance with the rules
  and regulations prescribed by the Chairman for such associations.
  `(k) DEPOSITORY OF PUBLIC MONEY- When designated for that purpose by
  the Secretary of the Treasury, any savings association or member of any
  Federal Home Loan Bank shall be a depositary of public money and may be
  employed as fiscal agent of the Government under such regulations as may be
  prescribed by said Secretary and shall perform all such reasonable duties
  as fiscal agent of the Government as may be required of it. Any savings
  association or member of any Federal Home Loan Bank may act as agent for
  any other instrumentality of the United States when designated for that
  purpose by such instrumentality of the United States, including services
  in connection with the collection of taxes and other obligations owed the
  United States, and the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to
  deposit public money in any such Federal savings association or member of
  a Federal home loan bank, and shall prescribe such regulations as may be
  necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection.
  `(l) RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS- Any Federal savings association is authorized
  to act as trustee of any trust created or organized in the United States
  and forming part of a stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing plan which
  qualifies or qualified for specific tax treatment under section 401(d)
  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 and to act as trustee or custodian of
  an individual retirement account within the meaning of section 408 of such
  Code if the funds of such trust or account are invested only in savings
  accounts or deposits in such Federal savings association or in obligations
  or securities issued by such Federal savings association. All funds held
  in such fiduciary capacity by any such Federal savings association may be
  commingled for appropriate purposes of investment, but individual records
  shall be kept by the fiduciary for each participant and shall show in proper
  detail all transactions engaged in under the authority of this paragraph.
  `(m) BRANCHING- No savings association incorporated under the laws of the
  District of Columbia or organized in such District or doing business in
  such District shall establish any branch or move its principal office
  or any branch without the prior written approval of the Chairman, and
  no other savings association shall establish any branch in such District
  or move its principal office or any branch in such District without such
  approval. As used in the sentence next preceding, `branch' means any office,
  place of business, or facility, other than the principal office as defined
  by the Chairman, of a savings association at which accounts are opened
  or payments thereon are received or withdrawals therefrom are paid, or
  any other office, place of business, or facility of a savings association
  defined by the Chairman as a branch within the meaning of such sentence,
  and as used in such sentence and in this sentence `savings association'
  means any incorporated or unincorporated building, building or loan, building
  and loan, savings and loan, or homestead association or cooperative bank.
  `(n) TRUSTS- (1) The Chairman is authorized and empowered to grant by
  special permit to a Federal savings association applying therefor, when
  not in contravention of State or local law, the right to act as trustee,
  executor, administrator, guardian, or in any other fiduciary capacity
  in which State banks, trust companies, or other corporations which come
  into competition with Federal savings associations are permitted to act
  under the laws of the State in which the Federal savings association is
  located. Subject to the rules and regulations of the Chairman, service
  corporations may invest in State or federally-chartered corporations which
  are located in the State in which the home office of the Federal savings
  association is located and which are engaged in trust activities.
  `(2) Whenever the laws of such State authorize or permit the exercise
  of any or all of the foregoing powers by State banks, trust companies,
  or other corporations which compete with Federal savings associations, the
  granting to and the exercise of such powers by Federal savings associations
  shall not be deemed to be in contravention of State or local law within
  the meaning of this section.
  `(3) Federal savings associations exercising any or all of the powers
  enumerated in this section shall segregate all assets held in any fiduciary
  capacity from the general assets of the association and shall keep a separate
  set of books and records showing in proper detail all transactions engaged
  in under authority of this section. The State banking authority involved may
  have access to reports of examination made by the Chairman insofar as such
  reports relate to the trust department of such association but nothing in
  this section shall be construed as authorizing such State banking authority
  to examine the books, records, and assets of such associations.
  `(4) No Federal savings association shall receive in its trust department
  deposits of current funds subject to check or the deposit of checks, drafts,
  bills of exchange, or other items for collection or exchange purposes. Funds
  deposited or held in trust by the association awaiting investment shall be
  carried in a separate account and shall not be used by the association in
  the conduct of its business unless it shall first set aside in the trust
  department United States bonds or other securities approved by the Chairman.
  `(5) In the event of the failure of a Federal savings association, the
  owners of the funds held in trust for investment shall have a lien on the
  bonds or other securities so set apart in addition to their claim against
  the estate of the association.
  `(6) Whenever the laws of a State require corporations acting in a
  fiduciary capacity to deposit securities with the State authorities for
  the protection of private or court trusts, Federal savings associations
  so acting shall be required to make similar deposits and securities so
  deposited shall be held for the protection of private or court trusts,
  as provided by the State law. Federal savings associations in such cases
  shall not be required to execute the bond usually required of individuals
  if State corporations under similar circumstances are exempt from this
  requirement. Federal savings associations shall have power to execute such
  bond when so required by the laws of the State involved.
  `(7) In any case in which the laws of a State require that a corporation
  acting as trustee, executor, administrator, or in any capacity specified
  in this section, shall take an oath or make an affidavit, the president,
  vice president, cashier, or trust officer of such association may take
  the necessary oath or execute the necessary affidavit.
  `(8) It shall be unlawful for any Federal savings association to lend any
  officer, director, or employee any funds held in trust under the powers
  conferred by this section. Any officer, director, or employee making such
  loan, or to whom such loan is made, may be fined not more than $5,000, or
  imprisoned not more than five years, or may be both fined and imprisoned,
  in the discretion of the court.
  `(9) In passing upon applications for permission to exercise the powers
  enumerated in this section, the Chairman may take into consideration the
  amount of capital and surplus of the applying Federal savings association,
  whether or not such capital and surplus is sufficient under the circumstances
  of the case, the needs of the community to be served, and any other facts and
  circumstances that seem to it proper, and may grant or refuse the application
  accordingly, except that no permit shall be issued to any association having
  a capital and surplus less than the capital and surplus required by State
  law of State banks, trust companies, and corporations exercising such powers.
  `(10) SURRENDER OF CHARTER- (A) Any Federal savings association desiring to
  surrender its right to exercise the powers granted under this section, in
  order to relieve itself of the necessity of complying with the requirements
  of this section, or to have returned to it any securities which it may have
  deposited with the State authorities for the protection of private or court
  trusts, or for any other purpose, may file with the Chairman a certified
  copy of a resolution of its board of directors signifying such desire.
  `(B) Upon receipt of such resolution, the Chairman, after satisfying itself
  that such Federal savings association has been relieved in accordance with
  State law of all duties as trustee, executor, administrator, guardian or
  other fiduciary, under court, private or other appointments previously
  accepted under authority of this section, may in its discretion, issue
  to such association a certificate certifying that such association is no
  longer authorized to exercise the powers granted by this section.
  `(C) Upon the issuance of such a certificate by the Chairman, such Federal
  savings association (i) shall no longer be subject to the provisions of
  this section or the regulations of the Chairman made pursuant thereto,
  (ii) shall be entitled to have returned to it any securities which it may
  have deposited with the State authorities for the protection of private or
  court trusts, and (iii) shall not exercise thereafter any of the powers
  granted by this section without first applying for and obtaining a new
  permit to exercise such powers pursuant to the provisions of this section.
  `(D) The Chairman is authorized and empowered to promulgate such regulations
  as it may deem necessary to enforce compliance with the provisions of
  this subsection and the proper exercise of the trust powers granted by
  this subsection.
  `(11) REVOCATION- (A) In addition to the authority conferred by other
  law, if, in the opinion of the Chairman, a Federal savings association
  is unlawfully or unsoundly exercising, or has unlawfully or unsoundly
  exercised, or has failed for a period of 5 consecutive years to exercise,
  the powers granted by this section or otherwise fails or has failed to
  comply with the requirements of this subsection, the Chairman may issue
  and serve upon the association a notice of intent to revoke the authority
  of the association to exercise the powers granted by this subsection. The
  notice shall contain a statement of the facts constituting the alleged
  unlawful or unsound exercise of powers, or failure to exercise powers,
  or failure to comply, and shall fix a time and place at which a hearing
  will be held to determine whether an order revoking authority to exercise
  such powers should issue against the association.
  `(B) Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
  subsection (d)(7), and subject to judicial review as therein provided, and
  shall be fixed for a date not earlier than 30 days and not later than sixty
  days after service of such notice unless an earlier or later date is set
  by the Chairman at the request of any Federal savings association so served.
  `(C) Unless the Federal savings association so served shall appear at the
  hearing by a duly authorized representative, it shall be deemed to have
  consented to the issuance of the revocation order. In the event of such
  consent, or if upon the record made at any such hearing, the Chairman
  shall find that any allegation specified in the notice of charges has
  been established, the Chairman may issue and serve upon the association an
  order prohibiting it from accepting any new or additional trust accounts
  and revoking authority to exercise any and all powers granted by this
  subsection, except that such order shall permit the association to continue
  to service all previously accepted trust accounts pending their expeditious
  divestiture or termination.
  `(D) A revocation order shall become effective not earlier than the
  expiration of 30 days after service of such order upon the association so
  served (except in the case of a revocation order issued upon consent, which
  shall become effective at the time specified therein), and shall remain
  effective and enforceable, except to such extent as it is stayed, modified,
  terminated, or set aside by action of the Chairman or a reviewing court.
  `(o) CONVERSION OF STATE SAVINGS BANKS- (1) Notwithstanding any other
  provision of this section, the Chairman, subject to the provisions of
  this subsection, may authorize, under the rules and regulations of the
  Chairman, the conversion of a State-chartered savings bank that is a Bank
  Insurance Fund member into a Federal savings bank, if such conversion
  is not in contravention of State law, and provide for the organization,
  incorporation, operation, examination, and regulation of such institution.
  `(2)(A) Any Federal savings bank chartered pursuant to this subsection
  shall continue to be a Bank Insurance Fund member until such time as it
  changes its status to a Savings Association Insurance Fund member.
  `(B) The Chairman shall provide the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  with notification of any application under this Act for conversion to a
  Federal charter by an institution insured by the Corporation, shall consult
  with the Corporation before disposing of the application, and shall provide
  said Corporation with notification of the Chairman's determination with
  respect to such application.
  `(C) Notwithstanding subsection (i), any provision of the constitution or
  laws of any State, or paragraph (1) of this subsection, if the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation determines conversion into a Federal
  stock savings bank or the chartering of a Federal stock savings bank
  is necessary to prevent the closing of a savings bank it insures or
  to reopen a closed savings bank it insured, or if the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation determines, with the concurrence of the Chairman,
  that severe financial conditions exist that threaten the stability of a
  savings bank insured by such Corporation and that such a conversion or
  charter is likely to improve the financial condition of such savings bank,
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall provide to the Chairman
  a certificate of such determination, the reasons therefor in conformance
  with the requirements of this Act, and the bank, without further action by
  the Chairman, shall be converted or chartered by the Chairman, pursuant
  to the rules and regulations thereof, from the time the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation issues such certificate.
  `(D) A bank may be converted under subparagraph (C) only where the board
  of trustees of the bank--
  `(i) has specified in writing that the bank is in danger of closing or
  is closed, or that severe financial conditions exist that threaten the
  stability of the bank and a conversion is likely to improve the financial
  condition of the bank; and
  `(ii) has requested in writing that the Corporation use the authority of
  subparagraph (C).
  `(E)(i) Before making a determination under subparagraph (D), the Corporation
  shall consult the State bank supervisor of the State in which the bank in
  danger of closing is chartered. The State bank supervisor shall be given
  a reasonable opportunity, and in no event less than 48 hours, to object
  to the use of the provisions of subparagraph (D).
  `(ii) If the State supervisor objects during such period, the Corporation may
  use the authority of subparagraph (D) only by a unanimous vote of the Board
  of Directors. The Board of Directors shall provide to the State supervisor,
  as soon as practicable, a written certification of its determination.
  `(3) A Federal savings bank chartered under this subsection shall have the
  same authority with respect to investments, operations, and activities,
  and shall be subject to the same restrictions, including those applicable
  to branching and discrimination, as would apply to it if it were chartered
  as a Federal savings bank under any other provision of this Act.
  `(4) For purposes of the Bank Protection Act of 1968, the Home Mortgage
  Disclosure Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Depository Institution
  Management Interlocks Act, the Depository Institutions Deregulation Act
  of 1980, the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the
  Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and
  section 12(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a savings association
  shall be regarded as an institution the accounts of which are insured by
  the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
  `(p) CONVERSIONS- (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal
  law or the laws or constitution of any State, and consistent with the
  purposes of this Act, the Chairman may authorize (or in the case of a
  Federal savings association, require) the conversion of a mutual savings
  association or Federal mutual savings bank that is insured by the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation into a Federal stock savings association or
  Federal stock savings bank, or charter a Federal stock savings association
  or Federal stock savings bank to acquire the assets of, or merge with such
  a mutual institution under the rules and regulations of the Chairman.
  `(2) Authorizations under this subsection may be made only to assist an
  institution in receivership, or if the Chairman has determined that severe
  financial conditions exist which threaten the stability of an association
  and that such authorization is likely to improve the financial condition
  of the association, or when the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has
  contracted to provide assistance to such association under section 13 of
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(3) A Federal savings bank chartered under this subsection shall have
  the same authority with respect to investments, operations and activities,
  and shall be subject to the same restrictions, including those applicable
  to branching and discrimination, as would apply to it if it were chartered
  as a Federal savings bank under any other provisions of this Act, and may
  engage in any investment, activity, or operation that the institution it
  acquired was engaged in if that institution was a Federal savings bank,
  or would have been authorized to engage in had that institution converted
  to a Federal charter.
  `(q) TYING ARRANGEMENTS- (1) A savings association shall not in any manner
  extend credit, lease, or sell property of any kind, or furnish any service,
  or fix or vary the consideration for any of the foregoing, on the condition
  or requirement--
  `(A) that the customer shall obtain additional credit, property, or service
  from such savings association, or from any service corporation or affiliate
  of such association, other than a loan, discount, deposit, or trust service;
  `(B) that the customer provide additional credit, property, or service
  to such association, or to any service corporation or affiliate of such
  association, other than those related to and usually provided in connection
  with a similar loan, discount, deposit, or trust service; and
  `(C) that the customer shall not obtain some other credit, property,
  or service from a competitor of such association, or from a competitor
  of any service corporation or affiliate of such association, other than
  a condition or requirement that such association shall reasonably impose
  in connection with credit transactions to assure the soundness of credit.
  `(2)(A) Any person may sue for and have injunctive relief, in any court of
  the United States having jurisdiction over the parties, against threatened
  loss or damage by reason of a violation of paragraph (1), under the same
  conditions and principles as injunctive relief against threatened conduct
  that will cause loss or damage is granted by courts of equity and under
  the rules governing such proceedings.
  `(B) Upon the execution of proper bond against damages for an injunction
  improvidently granted and a showing that the danger of irreparable loss
  or damage is immediate, a preliminary injunction may issue.
  `(3) Any person who is injured in his business or property by reason of
  anything forbidden in paragraph (1) may sue therefor in any district court
  of the United States in which the defendant resides or is found or has an
  agent, without regard to the amount in controversy, or may sue therefor
  in any other court of competent jurisdiction, and shall be entitled to
  recover three times the amount of the damages sustained by him, and the
  cost of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee. Any such suit shall be
  brought within four years from the date of the occurrence of the violation.
  `(4) Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed as affecting
  in any manner the right of the United States or any other party to bring an
  action under any other law of the United States or of any State, including
  any right which may exist in addition to specific statutory authority,
  challenging the legality of any act or practice which may be proscribed
  by this subsection. No regulation or order issued by the Chairman under
  this subsection shall in any manner constitute a defense to such action.
  `(5) For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) the term `affiliate' of an association means any individual or company
  (including any corporation, partnership, trust, joint-stock company,
  or similar organization) which controls, is controlled by, or is under
  common control with such association; and
  `(B) the term `loan' includes obligations and extensions or advances
  of credit.
  `(r) OUT OF STATE BRANCHES- (1) No Federal savings association may establish,
  retain, or operate a branch outside the State in which the Federal savings
  association has its home office, unless the association qualifies as a
  domestic building and loan association under section 7701(a)(19) of the
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or meets the asset composition test imposed by
  subparagraph (c) of that section on institutions seeking so to qualify. No
  out-of-State branch so established shall be retained or operated unless
  the total assets of the Federal savings association attributable to all
  branches of the Federal savings association in that State would qualify
  the branches as a whole, were they otherwise eligible, for treatment as
  a domestic building and loan association under said section 7701(a)(19).
  `(2) The limitations of paragraph (1) shall not apply if--
  `(A) the branch results from a transaction authorized under section 13(k)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
  `(B) the branch was authorized for the Federal savings association prior
  to the enactment of the Garn-St Germain Depository Institutions Act of 1982;
  `(C) the law of the State in which the branch is or is to be located would
  permit establishment of the branch were the Federal savings association
  an institution of the savings and loan or savings bank type chartered by
  the State in which its home office is located; or
  `(D) the branch was operated lawfully as a branch under State law prior
  to the association's conversion to a Federal charter.
  `(3) The Chairman, for good cause shown, may allow Federal savings
  associations up to two years to comply with the requirements of this
  subsection.
  `(s) MINIMUM CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Consistent with the purposes of section 908 of the
  International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 and the capital requirements
  established pursuant to such section by the appropriate Federal banking
  agencies (as defined in section 903(1) of such Act), the Chairman shall
  require all savings associations to achieve and maintain adequate capital
  by--
  `(A) establishing minimum levels of capital for savings associations; and
  `(B) using such other methods as the Chairman determines to be appropriate.
  `(2) MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVELS MAY BE DETERMINED BY CHAIRMAN ON CASE-BY-CASE
  BASIS- The Chairman may, consistent with subsection (t), establish the
  minimum level of capital for a savings association at such amount or at such
  ratio of capital-to-assets as the Chairman determines to be necessary or
  appropriate for such association in light of the particular circumstances
  of the association.
  `(3) UNSAFE OR UNSOUND PRACTICE- In the Chairman's discretion, the Chairman
  may treat the failure of any savings association to maintain capital at
  or above the minimum level required by the Chairman under this subsection
  as an unsafe or unsound practice within the meaning of subsection (d).
  `(4) DIRECTIVE TO INCREASE CAPITAL-
  `(A) PLAN MAY BE REQUIRED- In addition to any other action authorized by
  law, including paragraph (3), the Chairman may issue a directive requiring
  any savings association which fails to maintain capital at or above the
  minimum level required by the Chairman to submit and adhere to a plan for
  increasing capital which is acceptable to the Chairman.
  `(B) ENFORCEMENT OF PLAN- Any directive issued and plan approved under
  subparagraph (A) shall be enforceable under subsection (d)(2) or section
  8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to the same extent and in the same
  manner as an outstanding order which was issued under subsection (d)(2)
  or section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and has become final.
  `(5) PLAN TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN OTHER PROCEEDINGS- The Chairman may--
  `(A) consider a savings association's progress in adhering to any plan
  required under paragraph (4) whenever such association or any affiliate of
  such association (including any company which controls such association)
  seeks the approval of the Chairman for any proposal which would have the
  effect of diverting earnings, diminishing capital, or otherwise impeding
  such association's progress in meeting the minimum level of capital required
  by the Chairman; and
  `(B) disapprove any proposal referred to in subparagraph (A) if the
  Chairman determines that the proposal would adversely affect the ability
  of the association to comply with such plan.
  `(t) CAPITAL STANDARDS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL-
  `(A) Not later than 90 days after enactment of the FIRRE Act, the Chairman
  shall by regulation establish uniformly applicable capital standards
  for savings associations not less stringent than standards applicable to
  national banks, except as provided in paragraph (2). Such standards shall
  require a savings association to meet both the leverage ratio and the
  risk-based capital standards. The Chairman may provide for deviation in
  the risk-based standard to reflect interest rate or other risks, but any
  deviation from such standard shall not, when, taken as a whole, result in
  a materially lower risk-based capital standard than that which applies to
  national banks. The leverage ratio that applies to savings associations shall
  not be less stringent than the leverage ratio that applies to national banks.
  `(B) If the appropriate Federal banking agency for national banks ceases to
  have risk-based capital standards applicable to national banks, the Chairman
  shall establish by regulation uniformly applicable capital standards for
  savings associations that, taken as a whole, shall not be less stringent
  than the capital standards then applicable to national banks.
  `(2) GOODWILL- The calculation of capital for either the leverage ratio
  or the risk-based capital standard shall include goodwill--
  `(A) (limited to goodwill existing on April 12, 1989), to be amortized on
  a straightline basis over the shorter of--
  `(i) a 25-year period, or
  `(ii) the remaining period for amortization in effect as of April 12,
  1989, or
  `(B) (limited to goodwill resulting from the acquisition of a savings
  association or savings association holding company for which the definitive
  acquisition agreement was executed on or prior to April 12, 1989), to be
  amortized on a straightline basis over--
  `(i) a 10-year period, or
  `(ii) such shorter period as may be determined by the Chairman with the
  concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury.
  `(3) DEDUCTION OF CERTAIN INVESTMENTS AND LOANS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- For purposes of paragraph (1) the savings association's
  entire investment in, and loans to, any subsidiary engaged as principal
  in activities not permissible for a national bank shall be deducted from
  the capital of the savings association.
  `(B) EXCEPTIONS- Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to--
  `(i) investments in and loans to a subsidiary that is engaged solely in
  mortgage banking activities;
  `(ii) investments in and loans to a subsidiary--
  `(I) that is itself a savings association or a company the sole investment
  of which is a savings association, and
  `(II) that was acquired by the parent savings association prior to April
  12, 1989;
  `(iii) corporate debt securities that are not of investment grade; or
  `(iv) any Federal savings bank that was chartered prior to October 15,
  1982, as a savings bank under State law, or to a savings association that
  acquired its principal assets from an institution that was chartered prior
  to October 15, 1982, as a savings bank under State law.
  `(C) TRANSITIONAL RULE-
  `(i) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if a savings associations's
  subsidiary was, as of April 12, 1989, engaged as principal in activities
  not permissible for a national bank, the savings association may, except as
  provided in clause (iii), include in its capital the applicable percentage
  of the lesser of--
  `(I) the savings association's investments in and loans to the subsidiary
  on April 12, 1989; or
  `(II) the savings association's investments in and loans to the subsidiary on
  the date as of which the savings association's capital is being determined.
  `(ii) For purposes of clause (i), the applicable percentage is as follows:
The applicable
`For the following period:
percentage is:
Prior to July 1, 1990
100 percent
July 1, 1990-June 30, 1991
90 percent
July 1, 1991-June 30, 1992
75 percent
July 1, 1992-June 30, 1993
60 percent
July 1, 1993-June 30, 1994
40 percent.
  `(iii) For purposes of clause (i), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  may prescribe by order, with respect to a particular savings association,
  an applicable percentage less than that provided in clause (ii) if the
  Corporation determines, in its sole discretion, that the use of a greater
  percentage would, under the circumstances, constitute an unsafe or unsound
  practice or be likely to result in the institution's being in an unsafe
  or unsound condition.
  `(4) SCHEDULE- The Chairman shall prescribe a timetable for the
  implementation of capital standards under paragraph (1) that requires
  their full implementation not later than June 1, 1991.
  `(5) RESTRICTION ON GROWTH-
  `(A) PRIOR TO 1991- Until June 1, 1991, the Chairman--
  `(i) shall require any savings association not in compliance with capital
  standards under this subsection to submit a revised plan under subsection
  (s)(4)(A) which--
  `(I) provides, among other things, for asset growth fully supported by
  tangible capital in the amount required under the then applicable capital
  standard;
  `(II) sets forth the types and levels of activities that the association
  will engage in to raise capital; and
  `(III) is acceptable to the Chairman, and
  `(ii) may restrict the asset growth of any savings association not in
  compliance with capital standards established pursuant to this subsection.
  `(B) ON AND AFTER JUNE 1, 1991- On and after June 1, 1991, the Chairman
  shall--
  `(i) prohibit the asset growth of any savings association or class of savings
  associations not in compliance with capital standards established pursuant to
  this subsection to not more than the extent of interest credited on deposits;
  `(ii) limit such asset growth to increases in assets described in section
  10(m)(5)(B) and consumer loans; and
  `(iii) require that all such asset growth be fully supported by tangible
  capital at 6 percent (or, in the Chairman's discretion, at such lower rate
  as may be provided for under the standard in effect at such time under
  paragraph (1)).
  `(C) SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS FOR ASSOCIATION'S USE OF GOODWILL- In the case of
  a savings association that complies with the capital standards established
  under this subsection only by including goodwill as provided by paragraph
  (2), the Chairman shall require that--
  `(i) prior to June 1, 1991, such association's asset growth be fully
  supported by tangible capital in the amount required under the then
  applicable capital standard; and
  `(ii) on and after June 1, 1991, such association's asset growth be fully
  supported by tangible capital at 6 percent (or, in the Chairman's discretion,
  at such lower rate as may be provided for under the standard in effect at
  such time under paragraph (1)).
  `(D) GENERAL RESTRICTIONS- The Chairman may restrict the asset growth of
  any savings association that the Chairman determines is taking excessive
  risks or is paying excessive rates for deposits.
  `(6) USE OF OTHER DEFINITIONS- The standards established under the
  subsection shall include all relevant substantive definitions established
  by the appropriate Federal banking agency for national banks.
  `(7) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `national bank'
  shall have the same meaning as it has in section 3(d) of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(u) LIMITS ON LOANS TO ONE BORROWER-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The limitations contained in section 5200 of the Revised
  Statutes (12 U.S.C. 84) applies to savings associations in the same manner
  and to the same extent as they apply to national banks.
  `(2) EXCEPTIONS- A savings association may make loans to one borrower not
  to exceed--
  `(A) 50 percent of its paid in capital and surplus in the case of a loan
  made to finance the sale of real property held by the financial institution
  after foreclosure, or
  `(B) $500,000,
whichever is greater.
  `(v) Reports of Condition-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Each association shall make reports of conditions to
  the Chairman which shall be in a form prescribed by the Chairman and
  shall contain--
  `(A) information sufficient to allow the identification of potential
  interest rate and credit risk;
  `(B) a description of any assistance being received by the association,
  including the type and monetary value of such assistance;
  `(C) the identity of all subsidiaries and affiliates of the association;
  `(D) the identity, value, type, and sector of investment of all equity
  investments of the associations and subsidiaries; and
  `(E) other information that the Chairman may prescribe.
  `(2) AVAILABILITY- Reports required under this subsection and all information
  contained therein shall be available to the public upon request, unless the
  Chairman determines that a particular item or classification of information
  should not be made public in order to protect the safety or soundness of the
  institution concerned or institutions concerned, the Savings Association
  Insurance Fund, or that public disclosure would not otherwise be in the
  public interest. A determination made by the Chairman not to permit the
  public disclosure of information must be made in writing, and if the Chairman
  chooses to restrict any item of information for all savings institutions he
  should disclose the reason in detail in the Federal Register. The Chairman's
  decision under this paragraph shall not be subject to judicial review.
  `(3) ACCESS BY CERTAIN PARTIES- Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Chairman
  and ranking minority member of the House and Senate Banking Committee may
  not be denied access to any information contained in a condition of report,
  subject to reasonable confidentiality requirements which may be imposed
  upon their further dissemination. These confidentiality requirements may
  not prevent the forwarding of such information to the General Accounting
  Office for purposes of analysis.
`SEC. 6. ENCOURAGEMENT OF SAVING AND HOME FINANCING.
  `To enable the Chairman to encourage local thrift and local home financing
  and to promote, organize, and develop the associations herein provided
  for or similar associations organized under local laws, there is hereby
  authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
  appropriated, the sum of $150,000, to be immediately available and remain
  available until expended, subject to the call of the Chairman, which sum,
  or so much thereof as may be necessary, the Chairman is authorized to use
  in his discretion for the accomplishment of the purposes of this section
  without regard to the provisions of any other law governing the expenditure
  of public funds. For the purposes of this section the Secretary of the
  Treasury is authorized and directed to allocate and make immediately
  available to the Chairman, out of the funds appropriated pursuant to
  section 5(g), the sum of $700,000. Such sum shall be in addition to the
  funds appropriated pursuant to this section, and shall be subject to
  the call of the Chairman and shall remain available until expended. The
  sums appropriated and made available pursuant to this section shall be
  used impartially in the promotion and development of local thrift and
  home-financing institutions, whether State or federally chartered.
`SEC. 7. APPLICABILITY.
  `The provisions of this Act shall apply to the continental United States
  (including Alaska), to the State of Hawaii, and to Puerto Rico, Guam,
  and the Virgin Islands.
`SEC. 8. DISTRICT ASSOCIATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Without regard to any provision of law other than this
  section, and without limitation on any other power or function now or
  hereafter vested in or exercisable by the Chairman by or under this Act
  or otherwise, the Chairman shall, with respect to all incorporated or
  unincorporated building, building or loan, building and loan, or homestead
  associations, and similar institutions, of or trans- acting or doing
  business in the District of Columbia, or maintaining any office in the
  District of Columbia (other than Federal savings and loan associations),
  have the same powers and functions as to examination, operation, and
  regulation as are now or hereafter vested in or exercisable by it with
  respect to Federal savings and loan associations by or under section 5
  of this Act or otherwise, and all of the provisions of subsection (d)
  of section 5 of this Act as now or hereafter in force shall be applicable
  with respect to such associations or institutions.
  `(b) ADDITIONAL POWERS- Any such association or institution incorporated
  under the laws of, or organized in, the District of Columbia shall have
  in addition to any existing statutory authority such statutory authority
  as is from time to time vested in Federal savings and loan associations.
  `(c) CHARTER AMENDMENTS- Charters, certificates of incorporation, articles
  of incorporation, constitutions, bylaws, or other organic documents of
  associations or institutions referred to in subsection (b) of this section
  may, without regard to anything contained therein or otherwise, hereafter
  be amended in such manner and to such extent and upon such vote or votes
  if any as the Chairman may by regulation or otherwise provide.
  `(d) LIMITATION- Nothing herein shall cause, or permit the Chairman to cause,
  District of Columbia associations to be or become Federal savings and loan
  associations, or require the Chairman to impose on District of Columbia
  associations the same regulations as are imposed on Federal savings and
  loan associations.
`SEC. 9. EXPENSES OF EXAMINATIONS OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS; AFFILIATES; SAVINGS
ASSOCIATION HOLDING COMPANIES AND THEIR SUBSIDIARIES; EXPENSES OF PROCESSING
APPLICATIONS; EXPENSES OF GENERAL OPERATIONS OF THE OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN;
ASSESSMENT OF FEES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- A fee adequate to cover the cost of examinations of savings
  associations provided for by this Act may be assessed by the Chairman upon
  savings associations.
  `(b) INSTITUTION ASSESSED- A fee adequate to cover the cost of examinations
  of affiliates of savings associations, savings association holding companies
  and subsidiaries of savings association holding companies provided for
  by section 5(d)(1)(B)(i) and section 10(b)(4) of this Act may be assessed
  against the affiliate, savings association holding company, or subsidiary
  of a savings association holding company by the Chairman and paid for by
  such entity.
  `(c) FAILURE OF AFFILIATE TO PAY- If any affiliate of a savings association,
  savings association holding company, or subsidiary of a savings association
  holding company shall refuse to pay such expense, or other expense imposed
  pursuant to this section, or shall fail to do so within 60 days after
  the date of such assessment, then such expenses may be assessed against
  the affiliated savings association and when so assessed, shall be paid by
  such association. If the affiliation is with 2 or more savings associations
  or affiliates, such expenses may be assessed against, and collected from,
  any or all of such savings associations in such proportions as the Chairman
  prescribe.
  `(d) REFUSAL TO PERMIT EXAMINATION- If any affiliate of a savings
  association, savings association holding company, or subsidiary of a savings
  association holding company shall refuse to permit an examiner to make an
  examination of the affiliate or shall refuse to give any information required
  in the course of any examination, the savings association with which it is
  affiliated shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $25,000 for each
  day that any such refusal shall continue. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
  for violations made with reckless disregard for the safety and soundness
  of the financial institution, the Chairman may, in his or her discretion,
  assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 per day for each day during
  which such violation continues. Such penalty may be assessed by the Chairman,
  and collected for the use of the Chairman and deposited in the same manner
  as expenses of examinations.
  `(e) PROCESSING FEE- The Chairman may, in his sole discretion, assess against
  any person, corporation, savings association or other entity, without
  limitation, that submits to the Chairman or his designee an application,
  filing, notice, or request for approval by the Chairman or his designee
  a fee adequate to cover the cost of processing such submission.
  `(f) FEES FOR EXAMINATIONS AND SUPERVISORY ACTIVITIES- The Chairman may
  assess against institutions for which the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan
  Bank System is the appropriate Federal banking agency, within the meaning
  of section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, fees to fund the direct
  and indirect expenses of the Office of the Chairman. Such fees shall be
  imposed in proportion of the assets or resources of the institutions subject
  to such fees. The fees may be imposed more frequently than annually at the
  discretion of the Chairman. The annual rate of such fees shall be the same
  for all institutions subject to such fees.
  `(g) WORKING CAPITAL- The Chairman is authorized to impose fees and
  assessments pursuant to subsections (a), (b), (e), and (f) of this section,
  in excess of actual expenses for any given year to permit the Chairman to
  maintain a working capital fund. The Chairman shall remit to the payors of
  such fees and assessments any funds collected in excess of what he deems
  necessary to maintain such working capital fund.
  `(h) USE OF FUNDS- The Chairman is authorized to use the combined resources
  retained through fees and assessments imposed pursuant to this section
  to pay all direct and indirect salary and other expenses of the Office of
  the Chairman and the direct and indirect expenses of the examinations and
  supervisory activities of the Office of Savings Associations.
  `(i) REGULATIONS- The Chairman is authorized and empowered to prescribe
  regulations governing the imposition, calculation, collection and all
  other matters pertaining to the fees and assessments imposed pursuant to
  this section. Such regulations may establish formulas to determine a fee
  or schedule of fees to cover the costs of examinations and also to cover
  the cost of processing applications, filings, notices, and requests for
  approvals by the Chairman or his designee.
`SEC. 10. REGULATION OF HOLDING COMPANIES.
  `(a) DEFINITIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
  requires--
  `(A) `savings association' means a Federal savings and loan association or
  a Federal savings bank, a building and loan, savings and loan or homestead
  association, a cooperative bank or a State savings bank that is a member of
  the SAIF the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC, and shall include
  a savings bank which is deemed by the Chairman to be a savings association
  under subsection (l).
  `(B) `uninsured institution' means any financial institution the deposits
  of which are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
  `(C) `company' means any corporation, partnership, trust, joint-stock
  company, or similar organization, but does not include the Federal Savings
  and Loan Insurance Corporation, any Federal home loan bank, or any company
  the majority of the shares of which is owned by the United States or any
  State, or by an officer of the United States or any State in his official
  capacity, or by an instrumentality of the United States or any State;
  `(D) `savings and loan holding company' means any company which directly
  or indirectly controls a savings association or controls any other company
  which is a savings and loan holding company by virtue of this subsection;
  `(E) `multiple savings and loan holding company' means any savings and
  loan holding company which directly or indirectly controls two or more
  savings associations;
  `(F) `diversified savings and loan holding company' means any savings and
  loan holding company whose subsidiary savings association and related
  activities as permitted under paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of this
  section represented, on either an actual or a pro forma basis, less than
  50 percent of its consolidated net worth at the close of its preceding
  fiscal year and of its consolidated net earnings for such fiscal year
  (or, during the first year's operation of the section, at such time as the
  holding company so qualifies), as determined in accordance with regulations
  issued by the Corporation;
  `(G) `person' means an individual or company;
  `(H) `subsidiary' of a person means any company which is controlled by such
  person, or by a company which is a subsidiary of such person by virtue of
  this subsection;
  `(I) `affiliate' of a specified savings association means any person or
  company which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with,
  such savings association;
  `(J) `State' includes the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico;
  `(K) the terms `bank holding company' and `bank' have the meanings given
  to such terms in subsections (a) and (c), respectively, of section 2 of
  the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956;
  `(L) the term `acquire' has the meaning given to such term in section
  13(f)(8)(E) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and
  `(M) the term `Chairman' means the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations.
  `(2) CONTROL- For purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed to
  have control of--
  `(A) a savings association if the person directly or indirectly or acting in
  concert with one or more other persons, or through one or more subsidiaries,
  owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, or holds proxies representing,
  more than 25 percent of the voting shares of such savings association,
  or controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of
  such association;
  `(B) any other company if the person directly or indirectly or acting in
  concert with one or more other persons, or through one or more subsidiaries,
  owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, or holds proxies representing,
  more than 25 percent of the voting shares or rights of such other company,
  or controls in any manner the election or appointment of a majority of the
  directors or trustees of such other company, or is a general partner in
  or has contributed more than 25 percent of the capital of such other company;
  `(C) a trust if the person is a trustee thereof; or
  `(D) a savings association or any other company if the Chairman determines,
  after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing, that such person
  directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management
  or policies of such association or other company.
  `(3) EXCLUSIONS- Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection,
  the term `savings and loan holding company' does not include--
  `(A) any company by virtue of its ownership or control of voting shares
  of a savings association or a savings and loan holding company acquired
  in connection with the underwriting of securities if such shares are held
  only for such period of time (not exceeding 120 days unless extended by
  the Chairman) as will permit the sale thereof on a reasonable basis; and
  `(B) any trust (other than a pension, profit-sharing, shareholders', voting,
  or business trust) which controls a savings association or a savings and loan
  holding company if such trust by its terms must terminate within 25 years
  or not later than 21 years and 10 months after the death of individuals
  living on the effective date of the trust, and is (i) in existence on June
  26, 1967, or (ii) a testamentary trust created on or after June 26, 1967.
  `(b) REGISTRATION AND EXAMINATION- (1) Within 90 days after becoming a
  savings and loan holding company, each savings and loan holding company
  shall register with the Chairman on forms prescribed by the Chairman, which
  shall include such information, under oath or otherwise, with respect to the
  financial condition, ownership, operations, management, and intercompany
  relationships of such holding company and its subsidiaries, and related
  matters, as the Chairman may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out
  the purposes of this section. Upon application, the Chairman may extend
  the time within which a savings and loan holding company shall register
  and file the requisite information.
  `(2) Each savings and loan holding company and each subsidiary thereof,
  other than a savings association, shall file with the Chairman, and the
  regional office of the Chairman of the district in which its principal
  office is located, such reports as may be required by the Chairman. Such
  reports shall be made under oath or otherwise, and shall be in such form
  and for such periods, as the Chairman may prescribe. Each report shall
  contain such information concerning the operations of such savings and
  loan holding company and its subsidiaries as the Chairman may require.
  `(3) Each savings and loan holding company shall maintain such books and
  records as may be prescribed by the Chairman.
  `(4) Each savings and loan holding company and each subsidiary thereof shall
  be subject to such examinations as the Chairman may prescribe. The cost
  of such examinations shall be assessed against and paid by such holding
  company. Examination and other reports may be furnished by the Chairman
  to the appropriate State supervisory authority. The Chairman shall,
  to the extent deemed feasible, use for the purposes of this subsection
  reports filed with or examinations made by other Federal agencies or the
  appropriate State supervisory authority.
  `(5) The Chairman shall have power to require any savings and loan holding
  company, or persons connected therewith if it is not a corporation, to
  execute and file a prescribed form of irrevocable appointment of agent
  for service of process.
  `(6) The Chairman may at any time, upon its own motion or upon application,
  release a registered savings and loan holding company from any registration
  theretofore made by such company, if the Chairman shall determine that
  such company no longer has control of any savings association.
  `(c) Holding Company Activities-
  `(1) PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection,
  no savings and loan holding company and no subsidiary (of such company)
  which is not a savings association shall--
  `(A) engage in any activity or render any service for or on behalf of
  a savings association subsidiary for the purpose or with the effect of
  evading any law or regulation applicable to such savings association;
  `(B) commence any business activity, other than the activities described in
  paragraph (2), after the date of the enactment of the Competitive Equality
  Amendments of 1987; or
  `(C) continue any business activity, other than the activities described in
  paragraph (2), after the end of the 2-year period beginning on the later of--
  `(i) the date of the enactment of the Competitive Equality Amendments of
  1987; or
  `(ii) the date on which such company received approval under subsection
  (e) of this section to become a savings and loan holding company subject
  to the limitations contained in this subparagraph.
  `(2) EXEMPT ACTIVITIES- The prohibitions of subparagraphs (B) and (C)
  of paragraph (1) shall not apply to the following business activities of
  any savings and loan holding company or any subsidiary (of such company)
  which is not a savings association:
  `(A) Furnishing or performing management services for a savings association
  subsidiary of such company.
  `(B) Conducting an insurance agency or escrow business.
  `(C) Holding, managing, or liquidating assets owned or acquired from a
  savings association subsidiary of such company.
  `(D) Holding or managing properties used or occupied by a savings association
  subsidiary of such company.
  `(E) Acting as trustee under deed of trust.
  `(F) Any other activity--
  `(i) which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, by
  regulation, has determined to be permissible for bank holding companies
  under section 4(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, unless the
  Chairman, by regulation, prohibits or limits any such activity for savings
  and loan holding companies; or
  `(ii) in which multiple savings and loan holding companies were authorized
  (by regulation) to directly engage on March 5, 1987.
  `(3) CERTAIN LIMITATIONS ON ACTIVITIES NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN HOLDING
  COMPANIES- Notwithstanding paragraphs (4) and (6) of this subsection,
  the limitations contained in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1)
  shall not apply to any savings and loan holding company (or any subsidiary
  of such company) which controls--
  `(A) only 1 savings association, if the savings association subsidiary of
  such company is a qualified thrift lender (as determined under subsection
  (m)); or
  `(B) more than 1 savings association, if--
  `(i) all, or all but 1, of the savings association subsidiaries of such
  company were acquired pursuant to an acquisition under section 13(c)
  or 13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and
  `(ii) all of the savings association subsidiaries of such company are
  qualified thrift lenders (as determined under subsection (m)).
  `(4) PRIOR APPROVAL OF CERTAIN NEW ACTIVITIES REQUIRED-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- No savings and loan holding company and no subsidiary (of
  such company) which is not a savings association shall commence, either
  de novo or by an acquisition (in whole or in part) of a going concern,
  any activity described in paragraph (2)(F)(i) of this subsection without
  the prior approval of the Chairman.
  `(B) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED BY CHAIRMAN- In considering any application
  under subparagraph (A) by any savings and loan holding company or any
  subsidiary of any such company which is not a savings association, the
  Chairman shall consider--
  `(i) whether the performance of the activity described in such application
  by the company or the subsidiary can reasonably be expected to produce
  benefits to the public (such as greater convenience, increased competition,
  or gains in efficiency) that outweigh possible adverse effects of such
  activity (such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair
  competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound financial practices);
  `(ii) the managerial resources of the companies involved; and
  `(iii) the adequacy of the financial resources, including capital, of the
  companies involved.
  `(C) CHAIRMAN MAY DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN NEW AND ONGOING ACTIVITIES-
  In prescribing any regulation or considering any application under this
  paragraph, the Chairman may differentiate between activities commenced
  de novo and activities commenced by the acquisition, in whole or in part,
  of a going concern.
  `(D) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY ORDER- The approval or disapproval of
  any application under this paragraph by the Chairman shall be made in
  an order issued by the Chairman containing the reasons for such approval
  or disapproval.
  `(5) GRACE PERIOD TO ACHIEVE COMPLIANCE- If any savings association referred
  to in paragraph (3) fails to maintain the status of such association as
  a qualified thrift lender, the Chairman may allow, for good cause shown,
  any company which controls such association (or any subsidiary of such
  company which is not a savings association) up to 3 years to comply with
  the limitations contained in paragraph (1)(C).
  `(6) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN COMPANIES AFFECTED BY 1987
  AMENDMENTS-
  `(A) EXCEPTION TO 2-YEAR GRACE PERIOD FOR ACHIEVING COMPLIANCE-
  Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(C)(i), any company which received approval
  under subsection (e) of this section to acquire control of a savings
  association between March 5, 1987, and the date of the enactment of the
  Competitive Equality Amendments of 1987 shall not continue any business
  activity other than the activities described in paragraph (2) after such
  date of enactment.
  `(B) EXEMPTION FOR ACTIVITIES LAWFULLY ENGAGED IN BEFORE MARCH 5, 1987-
  Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(C) and subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D),
  any savings and loan holding company which received approval, before March 5,
  1987, under subsection (e) of this section to acquire control of a savings
  association may engage, directly or through any subsidiary (other than a
  savings association subsidiary of such company), in any activity in which
  such company or such subsidiary was lawfully engaged on such date.
  `(C) TERMINATION OF SUBPARAGRAPH (B) EXEMPTION- The exemption provided under
  subparagraph (B) for activities engaged in by any savings and loan holding
  company or a subsidiary of such company (which is not a savings association)
  which would otherwise be prohibited under paragraph (1)(C) shall terminate
  with respect to such activities of such company or subsidiary upon the
  occurrence (after the date of the enactment of the Competitive Equality
  Amendments of 1987) of any of the following:
  `(i) The savings and loan holding company acquires control of a bank or an
  additional savings association (other than a savings association acquired
  pursuant to subsection (m) of this section or section 406(f)).
  `(ii) Any savings association subsidiary of the savings and loan holding
  company fails to qualify as a domestic building and loan association under
  section 7701(a)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
  `(iii) The savings and loan holding company engages in any business
  activity--
  `(I) which is not described in paragraph (2); and
  `(II) in which it was not engaged on March 5, 1987.
  `(iv) Any savings association subsidiary of the savings and loan holding
  company increases the number of locations from which such savings association
  conducts business after March 5, 1987 (other than an increase which occurs
  in connection with a transaction under section 13(c) or (k) of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(v) Any savings association subsidiary of the savings and loan holding
  company permits any overdraft (including an intraday overdraft), or incurs
  any such overdraft in its account at a Federal Reserve bank, on behalf
  of an affiliate, unless such overdraft is the result of an inadvertent
  computer or accounting error that is beyond the control of both the savings
  association subsidiary and the affiliate.
  `(D) ORDER BY CHAIRMAN TO TERMINATE SUBPARAGRAPH (B) ACTIVITY- Any activity
  described in subparagraph (B) may also be terminated by the Chairman, after
  opportunity for hearing, if the Chairman determines, having due regard
  for the purposes of this title, that such action is necessary to prevent
  conflicts of interest or unsound practices or is in the public interest.
  `(7) FOREIGN SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANY- Notwithstanding any other
  provision of this section, any savings and loan holding company organized
  under the laws of a foreign country as of June 1, 1984 (including any
  subsidiary thereof which is not a savings association), which controls
  a single savings association on the date of enactment of the Competitive
  Equality Amendments of 1987 shall not be subject to this subsection with
  respect to any activities of such holding company which are conducted
  exclusively in a foreign country.
  `(8) EXEMPTION FOR BANK HOLDING COMPANIES- Except for paragraph (1)(A),
  this subsection shall not apply to a bank holding company registered with
  the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and regulated pursuant
  to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, or any of its subsidiaries.
  `(d) TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES- Transactions between any subsidiary
  savings associations of a savings and loan holding company and any affiliate
  (of such savings association subsidiary) shall be subject to the limitations
  and prohibitions specified in section 11 of this Act.
  `(e) ACQUISITIONS- (1) It shall be unlawful for--
  `(A) any savings and loan holding company directly or indirectly, or
  through one or more subsidiaries or through one or more transactions--
  `(i) to acquire, except with the prior written approval of the Chairman, the
  control of a savings association or a savings and loan holding company, or
  to retain the control of such an association or holding company acquired or
  retained in violation of this section as heretofore or hereafter in effect;
  `(ii) to acquire, except with the prior written approval of the Chairman,
  by the process of merger, consolidation, or purchase of assets, another
  savings association or a savings and loan holding company, or all or
  substantially all of the assets of any such association or holding company;
  `(iii) to acquire by purchase or otherwise, or to retain for more than one
  year after the enactment of this amendment, any of the voting shares of
  a savings association not a subsidiary, or of a savings and loan holding
  company not a subsidiary, or, in the case of a multiple savings and loan
  holding company, to so acquire or retain more than 5 percent of the voting
  shares of any company not a subsidiary which is engaged in any business
  activity other than those specified in paragraph (2) of subsection (c)
  of this section; or
  `(iv) to acquire the control of a savings association, or to retain for more
  than one year after the effective date of this amendment or from the date
  on which such control was acquired, whichever is later, except that the
  Chairman may upon application by such company extend such one-year period
  from year to year, for an additional period not exceeding 3 years, if the
  Chairman finds such extension is warranted and shall not be detrimental
  to the public interest;
  `(B) any other company, without the prior written approval of the Chairman,
  directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries or through
  one or more transactions, to acquire the control of one or more savings
  associations, except that such approval shall not be required in connection
  with the control of a savings association, (i) acquired by devise under the
  terms of a will creating a trust which is excluded from the definition of
  `savings and loan holding company' under subsection (a) of this section,
  or (ii) acquired in connection with a reorganization in which a person
  or group of persons, having had control of a savings association for more
  than 3 years, vests control of that association in a newly formed holding
  company subject to the control of the same person or group of persons. The
  Chairman shall approve an acquisition of a savings association under this
  subparagraph unless it finds the financial and managerial resources and
  future prospects of the company and association involved to be such that
  the acquisition would be detrimental to the association or the insurance
  risk of the Savings Association Insurance Fund or Bank Insurance Fund,
  and shall render its decision within 90 days after submission to the Board
  of the complete record on the application.
  `(2) The Chairman shall not approve any acquisition under subparagraphs
  (A)(i) or (A)(ii), or of more than one savings association under subparagraph
  (B), or paragraph (1) of this subsection, or any transaction under section
  13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, except in accordance with this
  paragraph. In every case, the Chairman shall take into consideration the
  financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and
  association involved, and the convenience and needs of the community to be
  served, and shall render its decision within 90 days after submission to
  the Board of the complete record on the application. Before approving any
  such acquisition, except a transaction under section 13(k) of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act, the Chairman shall request from the Attorney General
  and consider any report rendered within 30 days on the competitive factors
  involved. The Chairman shall not approve any proposed acquisition--
  `(A) which would result in a monopoly, or which would be in furtherance
  of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize
  the savings and loan business in any part of the United States, or
  `(B) the effect of which in any section of the country may be substantially
  to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any
  other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless it finds that the
  anticompetitive effects of the proposed acquisition are clearly outweighed
  in the public interest by the probable effect of the acquisition in meeting
  the convenience and needs of the community to be served.
  `(3) INTERSTATE ACQUISITIONS- No acquisition shall be approved by the
  Chairman under this subsection which will result in the formation by
  any company, through one or more subsidiaries or through one or more
  transactions, of a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling
  savings associations in more than one State, unless--
  `(A) such company, or a savings association subsidiary of such company,
  is authorized to acquire control of a savings association subsidiary,
  or to operate a home or branch office, in the additional State or States
  pursuant to section 13(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;
  `(B) such company controls a savings association subsidiary which operated
  a home or branch office in the additional State or States as of March 5,
  1987; or
  `(C) the statute laws of the State in which the savings association, control
  of which is to be acquired, is located are such that a savings association
  chartered by such State could be acquired by a savings association chartered
  by the State where the acquiring savings association or savings and loan
  holding company is located (or by a holding company that controls such a
  State chartered savings association), and such statute laws specifically
  authorize such an acquisition by language to that effect and not merely
  by implication.
  `(4) The provisions of this subsection and of subsection (c)(2) of this
  section shall not apply to any savings and loan holding company which
  acquired the control of a savings association or of a savings and loan
  holding company pursuant to a pledge or hypothecation to secure a loan,
  or in connection with the liquidation of a loan, made in the ordinary
  course of business, but it shall be unlawful for any such company to retain
  such control for more than one year after the enactment of this amendment
  or from the date on which such control was acquired, whichever is later,
  except that the Chairman may upon application by such company extend such
  one-year period from year to year, for an additional period not exceeding
  3 years, if the Chairman finds such extension is warranted and would not
  be detrimental to the public interest.
  `(f) DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND- Every subsidiary savings association of a
  savings and loan holding company shall give the Chairman not less than 30
  days' advance notice of the proposed declaration by its directors of any
  dividend on its guaranty, permanent, or other nonwithdrawable stock. Such
  notice period shall commence to run from the date of receipt of such
  notice by the Chairman. Any such dividend declared with such period, or
  without the giving of such notice to the Chairman, shall be invalid and
  shall confer no rights or benefits upon the holder of any such stock.
  `(g) ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT- (1) The Chairman is authorized to issue
  such rules, regulations, and orders as it deems necessary or appropriate
  to enable it to administer and carry out the purposes of this section,
  and to require compliance therewith and prevent evasions thereof.
  `(2) The Chairman may make such investigations as it deems necessary or
  appropriate to determine whether the provisions of this section, and rules,
  regulations, and orders thereunder, are being and have been complied with
  by savings and loan holding companies and subsidiaries and affiliates
  thereof. For the purpose of any investigation under this section, the
  Chairman or its designated representatives shall have power to administer
  oaths and affirmations, to issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum,
  to take evidence, and to require the production of any books, papers,
  correspondence, memorandums, or other records which may be relevant or
  material to the inquiry. The attendance of witnesses and the production
  of any such records may be required from any place in any State or in
  any territory. The Chairman may apply to the United States district court
  for the judicial district or the United States court in any territory in
  which any witness or company subpoenaed resides or carries on business,
  for enforcement of any subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued pursuant
  to this paragraph, and such courts shall have jurisdiction and power to
  order and require compliance therewith.
  `(3)(A) In the course of or in connection with any proceeding under
  subsection (a)(2)(D) or under paragraph (5) of this section, the Chairman
  or its designated representatives, including any person designated to
  conduct any hearing under said subsection, shall have power to administer
  oaths and affirmations, to take or cause to be taken depositions, and
  to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum;
  and the Chairman is empowered to make rules and regulations with respect
  to any such proceedings. The attendance of witnesses and the production of
  documents provided for in this paragraph may be required from any place in
  any State or in any territory at any designated place where such proceeding
  is being conducted. Any party to such proceedings may apply to the United
  States District Court for the District of Columbia, or the United States
  district court for the judicial district or the United States court in any
  territory in which such proceeding is being conducted, or where the witness
  resides or carries on business, for enforcement of any subpoena or subpoena
  duces tecum issued pursuant to this paragraph, and such courts shall have
  jurisdiction and power to order and require compliance therewith. Witnesses
  subpoenaed under this section shall be paid the same fees and mileage that
  are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States.
  `(B) Any hearing provided for in subsection (a)(2)(D) or under paragraph
  (5) of this section shall be held in the Federal judicial district or in the
  territory in which the principal office of the association or other company
  is located unless the party afforded the hearing consents to another place,
  and shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of
  title 5 of the United States Code.
  `(4) Whenever it shall appear to the Chairman that any person is engaged or
  has engaged or is about to engage in any acts or practices which constitute
  or will constitute a violation of the provisions of this section or of
  any rule, regulation, or order thereunder, the Chairman may in his or her
  discretion bring an action in the proper United States district court,
  or the United States court of any territory or other place subject to
  the jurisdiction of the United States, to enjoin such acts or practices,
  to enforce compliance with this section or any rule, regulation, or
  order thereunder, or to require the divestiture of any acquisition in
  violation of this section, or for any combination of the foregoing, and
  such courts shall have jurisdiction of such actions, and upon a proper
  showing an injunction, decree, restraining order, order of divestiture,
  or other appropriate order shall be granted without bond.
  `(5)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Chairman
  may, whenever it has reasonable cause to believe that the continuation
  by a savings and loan holding company of any activity or of ownership or
  control of any of its noninsured subsidiaries constitutes a serious risk to
  the financial safety, soundness, or stability of a savings and loan holding
  company's subsidiary savings association and is inconsistent with the sound
  operation of a savings association or with the purposes of this section
  or the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act, order the savings and loan
  holding company or any of its subsidiaries, after due notice and opportunity
  for hearing, to terminate such activities or to terminate (within 120 days
  or such longer period as the Chairman directs in unusual circumstances)
  its ownership or control of any such noninsured subsidiary either by sale
  or by distribution of the shares of the subsidiary to the shareholders of
  the savings and loan holding company. Such distribution shall be pro rata
  with respect to all of the shareholders of the distributing savings and
  loan holding company, and the holding company shall not make any charge
  to its shareholders arising out of such a distribution.
  `(B) The Chairman may in its discretion apply to the United States district
  court within the jurisdiction of which the principal office of the company is
  located, for the enforcement of any effective and outstanding order issued
  under this section, and such court shall have jurisdiction and power to
  order and require compliance therewith, but except as provided in subsection
  (j), no court shall have jurisdiction to affect by injunction or otherwise
  the issuance or enforcement of any notice or order under this section, or
  to review, modify, suspend, terminate, or set aside any such notice or order.
  `(6) All expenses of the Chairman under this section shall be considered
  as nonadministrative expenses.
  `(h) PROHIBITED ACTS- It shall be unlawful for--
  `(1) any savings and loan holding company or subsidiary thereof, or any
  director, officer, employee, or person owning, controlling, or holding
  with power to vote, or holding proxies representing, more than 25 percent
  of the voting shares, of such holding company or subsidiary, to hold,
  solicit, or exercise any proxies in respect of any voting rights in a
  savings association which is a mutual association;
  `(2) any director or officer of a savings and loan holding company, or
  any person owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, or holding
  proxies representing, more than 25 percent of the voting shares of such
  holding company to acquire control, or to retain control for more than 2
  years after the enactment of this subsection, of any savings association
  not a subsidiary of such holding company; or
  `(3) any individual, except with the prior approval of the Chairman, to
  serve or act as a director, officer, or trustee of, or become a partner
  in, any savings and loan holding company after having been convicted of
  any criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust.
  `(i) PENALTIES- (1) Any company which willfully violates any provisions of
  this section, or any regulation or order issued by the Chairman pursuant
  thereto shall be subject to a fine of $1,000,000 for each day during which
  such violation continues. Any individual who with reckless disregard for
  the safety or soundness of the financial institution participates in a
  violation of any provision of this section or any rule, regulation or
  order thereunder, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000,000
  for each day during which such violation continues or shall be imprisoned
  for not more than 5 years, or both.
  `(2) Any company which or individual who willfully participates in a
  violation of any provision of this section, or any regulation or order
  issued pursuant thereto, shall pay a civil penalty of not more than
  $1,000,000 per day for each day during which such violation continues
  and for all other violations, shall pay a civil penalty of not more than
  $25,000 per day for each day during which such violation continues. Civil
  and criminal penalties under this section are cumulative.
  `(3) The jurisdiction and authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency
  to proceed under this subsection against any institution-related party shall
  not be affected by the resignation, termination of employment, or other
  separation of such person from an insured financial institution, including
  separation caused by the failure of the institution. The preceding sentence
  shall also apply to all matters which are pending as of the time of this
  amendment, whether or not formally commenced, so long as the individual was
  an institution-related party at the time the alleged transactions occurred.
  `(4) Every director, officer, partner, trustee, agent, or employee of a
  savings and loan holding company shall be subject to the same penalties
  for false entries in any book, report, or statement of such savings and
  loan holding company as are applicable to officers, agents, and employees
  of a savings association the accounts of which are insured by the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation for false entries in any books, reports,
  or statements of such association under section 1006 of title 18, United
  States Code.
  `(5)(A) The Chairman may, in his or her discretion, compromise, modify,
  or remit any civil money penalty which is subject to imposition or has
  been imposed under authority of this subsection. The penalty may be
  assessed and collected by the Chairman by written notice. As used in the
  section, the term `violates' includes without any limitation any action
  (alone or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about,
  participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.
  `(B) In determining the amount of the penalty the Chairman shall take
  into account the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to the size
  of financial resources and good faith of the company or person charged,
  the gravity of the violation, the history of previous violations, and such
  other matters as justice may require.
  `(C) The company or person assessed shall be afforded an opportunity for
  agency hearing, upon request made within 10 days after issuance of the
  notice of assessment. In such hearing all issues shall be determined on
  the record pursuant to section 554 of title 5, United States Code. The
  agency determination shall be made by final order which may be reviewed
  only as provided in subparagraph (D). If no hearing is requested as herein
  provided, the assessment shall constitute a final and unappealable order.
  `(D) Any company or person against whom an order imposing a civil money
  penalty has been entered after agency hearing under this section may
  obtain review by the United States court of appeals for the circuit in
  which the home office of the company is located, or in the United States
  Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, by filing a notice
  of appeal in such court within 30 days from the date of such order, and
  simultaneously sending a copy of such notice by registered or certified
  mail to the Chairman. The Chairman shall promptly certify and file in
  such court the record upon which the penalty was imposed, as provided in
  section 2112 of title 28, United States Code. The findings of the Chairman
  shall be set aside if found to be unsupported by substantial evidence as
  provided by section 706(2)(E) of title 5, United States Code.
  `(E) If any company or person fails to pay an assessment after it has
  become a final and unappealable order, or after the court of appeals has
  entered final judgment in favor of the agency, the Chairman shall refer
  the matter to the Attorney General, who shall recover the amount assessed
  by action in the appropriate United States district court. In such action
  the validity and appropriateness of the final order imposing the penalty
  shall not be subject to review.
  `(F) The Chairman shall promulgate regulations establishing procedures
  necessary to implement this paragraph.
  `(G) All penalties collected under authority of this paragraph shall be
  covered into the Treasury of the United States.
  `(j) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Any party aggrieved by an order of the Chairman under
  this section may obtain a review of such order by filing in the court
  of appeals of the United States for the circuit in which the principal
  office of such party is located, or in the United States Court of Appeals
  for the District of Columbia Circuit, within 30 days after the date of
  service of such order, a written petition praying that the order of the
  Chairman be modified, terminated, or set aside. A copy of such petition
  shall be forthwith transmitted by the clerk of the court to the Chairman, and
  thereupon the Chairman shall file in the court the record in the proceeding,
  as provided in section 2112 of title 28, United States Code. Upon the
  filing of such petition, such court shall have jurisdiction, which upon
  the filing of the record shall be exclusive, to affirm, modify, terminate,
  or set aside, in whole or in part, the order of the Chairman. Review
  of such proceedings shall be had as provided in chapter 7 of title 5,
  United States Code. The judgment and decree of the court shall be final,
  except that the same shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court upon
  certiorari as provided in section 1254 of title 28, United States Code.
  `(k) SAVING CLAUSE- Nothing contained in this section, other than any
  transaction approved under subsection (e)(2) or section 13 of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act, shall be interpreted or construed as approving any
  act, action, or conduct which is or has been or may be in violation of
  existing law, nor shall anything herein contained constitute a defense to
  any action, suit, or proceeding pending or hereafter instituted on account
  of any act, action, or conduct in violation of the antitrust laws.
  `(l) TREATMENT OF FDIC INSURED STATE SAVINGS BANKS AND COOPERATIVE BANKS
  AS SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a savings
  bank (as defined in section 3(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act)
  and a cooperative bank that is an insured bank (as defined in section 3(h)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) upon application shall be deemed to
  be a savings association for the purpose of this section, if the Chairman
  determines that such bank is a qualified thrift lender (as determined
  under subsection (m)).
  `(2) FAILURE TO MAINTAIN QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER STATUS- If any savings
  bank which is deemed to be a savings association under paragraph (1)
  subsequently fails to maintain its status as a qualified thrift lender,
  as determined by the Chairman, such bank may not thereafter be a qualified
  thrift lender for a period of 5 years.
  `(m) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER REQUIREMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), any savings
  association shall have the status of a qualified thrift lender if--
  `(A) the qualified thrift investments of such savings association equal
  or exceed 60 percent of the total tangible assets of such association; and
  `(B) the qualified thrift investments of such savings association continue to
  equal or exceed 60 percent of the total tangible assets of such association
  on an average basis in 3 out of every 4 quarters and 2 out of every 3 years.
  `(2) TRANSITION RULE FOR CERTAIN ASSOCIATIONS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- If any savings association--
  `(i) which was chartered as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under
  State law before October 15, 1982; or
  `(ii) the principal assets of which were acquired from an association
  which was chartered as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under State
  law before October 15, 1982,
meets the requirements of subparagraph (B), such savings association shall
be treated as a qualified thrift lender during the 10-year period beginning
on January 1, 1988.
  `(B) SUBPARAGRAPH (B) REQUIREMENTS- A savings association meets the
  requirements of this subparagraph if, in the determination of the Chairman--
  `(i) the actual thrift investment percentage of such association does not,
  after the date of the enactment of the Competitive Equality Amendments
  of 1987, decrease below the actual thrift investment percentage of such
  association on such date of enactment; and
  `(ii) the amount by which--
  `(I) the actual thrift investment percentage of such association at the
  end of each period described in the following table, exceeds
  `(II) the actual thrift investment percentage of such association on such
  date of enactment,
is equal to or greater than the applicable percentage (as determined under
the following table) of the amount by which 60 percent exceeds the actual
thrift investment percentage of such association on such date of enactment:
The applicable
`For the following period:
percentage is:
The 2 1/2 -year period beginning on such date of enactment
25 percent
The 5-year period beginning on such date of enactment
50 percent
The 7 1/2 -year period beginning on such date of enactment
75 percent
  `(3) EXCEPTIONS GRANTED BY CHAIRMAN- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the
  Chairman may grant such temporary and limited exceptions from the minimum
  actual thrift investment percentage requirement contained in such paragraph
  as the Chairman deems necessary if--
  `(A) the Chairman determines that extraordinary circumstances exist, such
  as when the effects of high interest rates reduce mortgage demand to such
  a degree that an insufficient opportunity exists for a savings association
  to meet such investment requirements; or
  `(B) the Chairman determines that--
  `(i) the grant of any such exception will facilitate an acquisition under
  section 13(c) or (k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and
  `(ii) the acquired association will comply with the transition requirements
  of paragraph (2)(B).
  `(4) FAILURE TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER STATUS-
  `(A) A savings association that fails to achieve or maintain its status as
  a qualified thrift lender shall, within 3 years of the date on which the
  association loses its status as a qualified thrift lender, convert its
  charter to one or more bank charters, unless during the one-year period
  following the date it loses its status as a qualified thrift lender, the
  association becomes a qualified thrift lender and does not thereafter lose
  its status as a qualified thrift lender.
  `(B) Until such conversion is complete, such savings association shall not--
  `(i) after 3 years from the date it loses its qualified thrift lender
  status, be eligible to obtain advances from any Federal Home Loan Bank
  and shall repay any outstanding advances promptly;
  `(ii) expand its activities beyond those conducted on the date the savings
  association loses its status as a qualified thrift lender;
  `(iii) open any additional branch offices; or
  `(iv) after 3 years from the date it loses its qualified thrift lender
  status, engage directly or through a subsidiary in an activity unless
  such activity is permissible for either a national bank or a State bank
  (other than a savings bank) located in the State in which the association
  is located.
  `(C) Any company that controls a savings association identified in paragraph
  (A) shall, after 3 years following the date on which the savings association
  loses its status as a qualified thrift lender, be subject to all of the
  provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and other
  applicable statutes as if the company were a bank holding company and the
  savings association were a bank as those terms are defined in the Bank
  Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
  `(D) Any bank chartered as a result of the requirements of this section
  shall be obligated until December 31, 1993, to pay the assessments assessed
  on savings associations under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Such
  association shall also be assessed the exit fee provided in section 5(d)(2)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(E) As used in this subsection, `bank' shall mean a national member bank
  or a State bank (other than a savings bank), as defined in section 3 of
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(5) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) ACTUAL THRIFT INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE- The term `actual thrift investment
  percentage' means the percentage determined by dividing--
  `(i) the amount of the qualified thrift investments of a savings
  association, by
  `(ii) the total amount of tangible assets of such savings association.
  `(B) QUALIFIED THRIFT INVESTMENTS- The term `qualified thrift investments'
  means, with respect to any savings association, the sum of--
  `(i) the aggregate amount of loans, equity positions, or securities held
  by the savings association (or any subsidiary of such association) which
  are related to domestic residential real estate or manufactured housing;
  `(ii) the value of property used by such association or subsidiary in the
  conduct of the business of such association or subsidiary;
  `(iii) subject to paragraph (6), the liquid assets of the type required
  to be maintained under section 5A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act; and
  `(iv) subject to paragraph (6), 50 percent of the dollar amount of the
  residential mortgage loans originated by such savings association or
  subsidiary and sold within 90 days of origination.
  `(6) LIMITATION ON TREATMENT OF CERTAIN ASSETS AS THRIFT INVESTMENTS-
  The aggregate amount of the assets described in clauses (iii) and (iv) of
  paragraph (5)(B) which may be taken into account in determining the amount
  of the qualified thrift investments of any savings association shall not
  exceed the amount which is equal to 10 percent of the tangible assets of
  such association.
  `(n) Tying Restrictions-
  `(1) STATE CHARTERED SAVINGS ASSOCIATION SUBSIDIARIES- A State chartered
  savings association subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company
  shall be subject to section 5(q) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933,
  and regulations prescribed under such subsection, in the same manner and to
  the same extent as an association (as defined in section 2(d) of such Act).
  `(2) HOLDING COMPANIES AND CERTAIN AFFILIATES- A savings and loan holding
  company and any of its affiliates (other than a savings association)
  shall be subject to section 5(q) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, and
  regulations prescribed under such subsection, in connection with transactions
  involving the products or services of such company or affiliate and those
  of an affiliated savings association as if such company or affiliate were
  an association (as defined in section 2(d) of such Act).
  `(o) Mutual Holding Companies-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any provision of Federal law other than
  this title, a savings association operating in mutual form may reorganize
  so as to become a holding company by--
  `(A) chartering an interim savings association, the stock of which is to
  be wholly owned by the mutual association; and
  `(B) transferring the substantial part of its assets and liabilities,
  including all of its insured liabilities, to the interim savings association.
  `(2) DIRECTORS AND CERTAIN ACCOUNT HOLDERS' APPROVAL OF PLAN REQUIRED-
  A reorganization is not authorized under this subsection unless--
  `(A) a plan providing for such reorganization has been approved by a
  majority of the board of directors of the mutual savings association; and
  `(B) in the case of an association in which holders of accounts and obligors
  exercise voting rights, such plan has been submitted to and approved by a
  majority of such individuals at a meeting held at the call of the directors
  in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the association's charter
  and bylaws.
  `(3) Notice to the chairman; disapproval period-
  `(A) NOTICE REQUIRED- At least 60 days prior to taking any action described
  in paragraph (1), a savings association seeking to establish a mutual
  holding company shall provide written notice to the Chairman. The notice
  shall contain such relevant information as the Chairman shall require by
  regulation or by specific request in connection with any particular notice.
  `(B) TRANSACTION ALLOWED IF NOT DISAPPROVED- Unless the Chairman within such
  60-day notice period disapproves the proposed holding company formation,
  or extends for another 30 days the period during which such disapproval
  may be issued, the savings association providing such notice may proceed
  with the transaction, if the requirements of paragraph (2) have been met.
  `(C) GROUNDS FOR DISAPPROVAL- The Chairman may disapprove any proposed
  holding company formation only if--
  `(i) such disapproval is necessary to prevent unsafe or unsound practices;
  `(ii) the financial or management resources of the savings association
  involved warrant disapproval;
  `(iii) the savings association fails to furnish the information required
  under subparagraph (A); or
  `(iv) the savings association fails to comply with the requirement of
  paragraph (2).
  `(D) RETENTION OF CAPITAL ASSETS- In connection with the transaction
  described in paragraph (1), a savings association may, subject to the
  approval of the Chairman, retain capital assets at the holding company level
  to the extent that such capital exceeds the association's capital requirement
  established by the Chairman pursuant to sections 5 (s) and (t) of this Act.
  `(4) OWNERSHIP- Persons having ownership rights in the mutual association
  pursuant to section 5(b)(1)(B) of this Act or State law shall have the
  same ownership rights with respect to the mutual holding company.
  `(5) PERMITTED ACTIVITIES- A mutual holding company may engage only in
  the following activities:
  `(A) Investing in the stock of a savings association.
  `(B) Acquiring a mutual association through the merger of such association
  into a savings association subsidiary of such holding company or an interim
  savings association subsidiary of such holding company.
  `(C) Subject to paragraph (6), merging with or acquiring another holding
  company, one of whose subsidiaries is a savings association.
  `(D) Investing in a corporation the capital stock of which is available
  for purchase by a savings association under Federal law or under the law
  of any State where the subsidiary savings association or associations have
  their home offices.
  `(E) Engaging in the activities described in subsection (c)(2), except
  subparagraph (B).
  `(6) Limitations on certain activities of acquired holding companies-
  `(A) NEW ACTIVITIES- If a mutual holding company acquires or merges
  with another holding company under paragraph (5)(C), the holding company
  acquired or the holding company resulting from such merger or acquisition
  may only invest in assets and engage in activities which are authorized
  under paragraph (5).
  `(B) GRACE PERIOD FOR DIVESTING PROHIBITED ASSETS OR DISCONTINUING
  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES- Not later than 2 years following a merger or
  acquisition described in paragraph (5)(C), the acquired holding company
  or the holding company resulting from such merger or acquisition shall--
  `(i) dispose of any asset which is an asset in which a mutual holding
  company may not invest under paragraph (5); and
  `(ii) cease any activity which is an activity in which a mutual holding
  company may not engage under paragraph (5).
  `(7) REGULATION- Unless the context otherwise requires, a mutual holding
  company shall be subject to the other requirements of this section regarding
  regulation of holding companies.
  `(8) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) MUTUAL HOLDING COMPANY- The term `mutual holding company' means a
  corporation organized as a holding company under this subsection.
  `(B) MUTUAL ASSOCIATION- The term `mutual association' means--
  `(i) a savings association; or
  `(ii) a savings bank (as defined in section 3(g) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act),
which is operating in mutual form.
`SEC. 11. TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES; LOANS AND EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT TO
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND CONTROLLING PERSONS.
  `(a) TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES- Except to the extent that the Chairman
  determines for reasons of safety and soundness that additional restrictions
  should apply, the provisions of section 23A and section 23B of the Federal
  Reserve Act shall be applicable to every savings association in the same
  manner and to the same extent as if such savings association were a member
  bank as defined in that Act, except that--
  `(1) no loan or other extension of credit may be made to an affiliate
  unless that affiliate is engaged only in activities described in section
  (c)(2)(F)(i); and
  `(2) no investment or transaction (other than such a loan) covered by or
  described in section 23A or 23B of the Federal Reserve Act may be entered
  into by such an association with any affiliate thereof.
For the purpose of this subsection any company which would be an affiliate of
a savings association for the purposes of section 23A and section 23B of the
Federal Reserve Act if such savings association were a member bank as defined
in that Act shall be deemed to be an affiliate of such savings association.
  `(b) LOAN LIMITS- Except to the extent that the Chairman determines for
  reasons of safety and soundness that additional restrictions should apply,
  the provisions of section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act relating to
  limits on loans and extensions of credit by a member bank to its executive
  officers or directors or to any person who directly or indirectly owns,
  controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of
  voting securities of such member bank shall be applicable to every savings
  association in the same manner and to the same extent as if such savings
  association were a member bank as defined in that Act.
  `(c) ENFORCEMENT- Violations of this section shall be enforced by the
  Chairman in accordance with section 8 of this Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
`SEC. 12. ADVERTISING.
  `No savings association shall carry on any sale, plan, or practices,
  or any advertising, in violation of regulations promulgated by the Chairman.
`SEC. 13. SEPARABILITY PROVISION.
  `If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof to any person
  or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the Act, and the
  application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, shall
  not be affected thereby.'.
SEC. 302. REPEALS.
  (a) Section 407(m), section 408, section 409, section 410, section 413,
  section 414, and section 416 of the National Housing Act are repealed.
  (b) SAVINGS PROVISIONS-
  (1) Any association that had entered into a plan under section 10 of the
  Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (as in effect prior to enactment of the FIRRE
  Act) approved by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, shall be grandfathered
  hereunder as long as the association adheres to the plan and continues to
  submit to the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank System regular and
  complete reports on the association's progress in meeting the association's
  goals under the plan.
  (2) Any insured institution which had entered into a plan under section
  416 of the National Housing Act (as in effect prior to enactment of the
  FIRRE Act) approved by the Federal Savings and Loan Corporation shall be
  grandfathered hereunder as long as the insured institution adheres to the
  plan and continues to submit to the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank
  System regular and complete reports on the insured institutions progress
  in meeting the insured institutions goals under the plan. For the purpose
  of this subsection, the term `insured institution' shall have the same
  meaning as in section 408 of the National Housing Act, as in effect prior
  to the enactment of the FIRRE Act.
SEC. 303. QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 10(m) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(m) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER REQUIREMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), any savings
  association is a qualified thrift lender if--
  `(A) the savings association's qualified thrift investments equal or exceed
  60 percent of the savings association's portfolio assets; and
  `(B) the savings association's qualified thrift investments continue to
  equal or exceed 60 percent of the savings association's portfolio assets,
  as measured by a daily or weekly average of such qualified thrift investments
  and such portfolio assets, for every 2-year period beginning on July 1, 1991.
  `(2) TRANSITION RULE FOR CERTAIN ASSOCIATIONS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- If any savings association--
  `(i) which was chartered as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under
  State law before October 15, 1982; or
  `(ii) the principal assets of which were acquired from an association
  which was chartered as a savings bank or a cooperative bank under State
  law before October 15, 1982,
meets the requirements of subparagraph (B), such savings association shall
be treated as a qualified thrift lender during the 10-year period beginning
on January 1, 1988.
  `(B) SUBPARAGRAPH (B) REQUIREMENTS- A savings association meets the
  requirements of this subparagraph if, in the determination of the Chairman--
  `(i) the actual thrift investment percentage of such association does not,
  after the date of the enactment of the Competitive Equality Amendments
  of 1987, decrease below the actual thrift investment percentage of such
  association on such date of enactment; and
  `(ii) the amount by which--
  `(I) the actual thrift investment percentage of such association at the
  end of each period described in the following table, exceeds
  `(II) the actual thrift investment percentage of such association on such
  date of enactment,
is equal to or greater than the applicable percentage (as determined under
the following table) of the amount by which 60 percent exceeds the actual
thrift investment percentage of such association on such date of enactment:
The applicable
`For the following period:
percentage is:
The 2 1/2 -year period beginning on such date of enactment
25 percent
The 5-year period beginning on such date of enactment
50 percent
The 7 1/2 -year period beginning on such date of enactment
75 percent
  `(3) EXCEPTIONS GRANTED BY CHAIRMAN- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the
  Chairman may grant such temporary and limited exceptions from the minimum
  actual thrift investment percentage requirement contained in such paragraph
  as the Chairman deems necessary if--
  `(A) the Chairman determines that extraordinary circumstances exist, such
  as when the effects of high interest rates reduce mortgage demand to such
  a degree that an insufficient opportunity exists for a savings association
  to meet such investment requirements; or
  `(B) the Chairman determines that--
  `(i) the grant of any such exception will facilitate an acquisition under
  section 13 (c) or (k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and
  `(ii) the acquired association will comply with the transition requirements
  of paragraph (2)(B).
  `(4) FAILURE TO BECOME AND REMAIN A QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER-
  `(A) CONVERSION REQUIREMENT- A savings association that fails to become or
  remain a qualified thrift lender shall, within 3 years after the date on
  which the association should have become or ceases to be a qualified thrift
  lender, convert its charter to one or more bank charters, unless during the
  one-year period following that date, the association becomes a qualified
  thrift lender and does not thereafter cease to be a qualified thrift lender.
  `(B) RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE PENDING CONVERSION- Until such conversion is
  complete, such savings association shall not--
  `(i) after 3 years from the date it ceases to be a qualified thrift lender,
  be eligible to obtain advances from any Federal Home Loan Bank, and shall
  repay any outstanding advances promptly;
  `(ii) expand its activities beyond those conducted on the date the savings
  association ceases to be a qualified thrift lender;
  `(iii) open any additional branch offices; or
  `(iv) after 3 years from the date it ceases to be a qualified thrift lender,
  engage directly or through a subsidiary in an activity unless such activity
  is permissible for either a national bank or a State bank (other than a
  savings bank) located in the State in which the association is located.
  `(C) HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION- Any company that controls a savings
  association identified in paragraph (A) shall, after 3 years following
  the date on which the savings association loses its status as a qualified
  thrift lender, be subject to all of the provisions of the Bank Holding
  Company Act of 1956 and other applicable statutes in the same manner and
  to the same extent as if the company were a bank holding company and the
  savings association were a bank, as those terms are defined in the Bank
  Holding Company Act of 1956.
  `(D) DEPOSIT INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS- Any bank chartered as a result of
  the requirements of this section shall be obligated until December 31,
  1993, to pay the assessments assessed on savings associations under the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Such association shall also be assessed the
  exit fee and entrance fee provided in section 5(d) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act.
  `(E) EXEMPTION FOR SPECIALIZED SAVINGS ASSOCIATION SERVING TRANSIENT
  MILITARY PERSONNEL- Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to a savings association
  subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company if--
  `(i) the savings and loan holding company is a reciprocal interinsurance
  exchange that acquired control of the insured institution before January 1,
  1984; and
  `(ii) at least 90 percent of the customers of the savings and loan holding
  company and its subsidiaries and affiliates are active or former officers
  in the United States military services or the widows, widowers, divorced
  spouses, or current or former dependents of such officers.
  `(5) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection--
  `(A) ACTUAL THRIFT INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE- The term `actual thrift investment
  percentage' means the percentage determined by dividing--
  `(i) the amount of a savings association's qualified thrift investments, by
  `(ii) the amount of the savings association's portfolio assets.
  `(B) PORTFOLIO ASSETS- The term `portfolio assets' means, with respect
  to any savings association, the total assets of the savings association,
  less the following--
  `(i) goodwill and other intangible assets;
  `(ii) the value of property used by the savings association to conduct
  its business; and
  `(iii) liquid assets to the extent that the association is required to
  maintain such assets under section 4A of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933.
  `(C) QUALIFIED THRIFT INVESTMENTS-
  `(i) The term `qualified thrift investments' means, with respect to any
  savings association, the sum of--
  `(I) the aggregate amount of loans held by the savings association (or
  any subsidiary of the association) that were made to purchase, refinance,
  construct, improve, or repair domestic residential housing or manufactured
  housing;
  `(II) home-equity loans, to the extent permitted under clause (ii);
  `(III) mortgage-backed securities; and
  `(IV) 50 percent of the dollar amount of the residential mortgage
  loans originated by such savings association and sold within 90 days of
  origination, but the dollar amount treated as qualified thrift investments
  pursuant to this subclause may not exceed the amount which is equal to 5
  percent of the savings association's portfolio investments.
  `(ii) The Chairman shall determine annually what percentage of outstanding
  home-equity loans by all savings associations are used for the purposes
  described in clause (i). A savings association may include pursuant to
  clause (i)(II) the amount determined by multiplying that percentage by
  the aggregate amount of its home-equity loans.
  `(iii) The term `qualified thrift investments' excludes--
  `(I) that portion of any loan that is used for any purpose other than
  purchasing, refinancing, improving, or repairing domestic residential
  housing or manufactured housing; or
  `(II) goodwill or any other intangible asset.
  `(D) DEFINITION- As used in this subsection, `bank' shall mean a national
  member bank or a State bank (other than a savings bank), as defined in
  section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(6) CONSISTENT ACCOUNTING REQUIRED- In determining the amount of
  a savings association's portfolio assets, the assets of any subsidiary
  of the savings association shall be consolidated with the assets of the
  savings association if--
  `(A) assets of the subsidiary are consolidated with the assets of the
  savings association in determining the savings association's qualified
  thrift investments; or
  `(B) residential mortgage loans originated by the subsidiary are included
  pursuant to paragraph (5)(C)(i)(III) in determining the savings association's
  qualified thrift investments.
  `(7) ASSOCIATIONS THAT HAVE PREVIOUSLY FAILED TO REMAIN QUALIFIED THRIFT
  LENDERS- If, as of June 30, 1991, any savings association is required to
  convert its charter pursuant to paragraph (4)(A) as in effect on that date,
  the amendment to paragraph (4)(A) made by section 303 of the Financial
  Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, shall not be
  construed as extending the period for conversion.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  on July 1, 1991.
SEC. 304. TRANSITIONAL RULE FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES.
  (a) CONSISTENCY OF CERTAIN REGULATIONS WITH SECTION 23A OF THE FEDERAL
  RESERVE ACT- Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations shall revise his
  conflicts regulations so as not to prohibit a thrift institution from
  purchasing mortgages from a mortgage-banking affiliate to the same extent
  as a member bank may do so under section 250.250 of title 12, Code of
  Federal Regulations.
  (b) TRANSITIONAL PERIOD- Notwithstanding section 11(a) of the Home Owners'
  Loan Act of 1933 (as amended by section 301 of this Act), a thrift
  institution that, before April 12, 1989, had received approval from the
  Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation pursuant to section 408(d)(6)
  of the National Housing Act as then in effect to purchase mortgages from
  a mortgage-banking affiliate may, during the 6-month period following the
  date on which final regulations are prescribed pursuant to subsection
  (a), continue to engage in transactions for which it had received such
  approval. Any savings association that engages in such transactions
  pursuant to this subsection shall comply with the standards that were
  applicable under section 408(d)(6) as in effect on the day before the date
  of enactment of this Act.
  (c) AUTHORITY TO EXTEND REGULATORY APPROVALS THAT WOULD OTHERWISE LAPSE
  DURING THE TRANSITION PERIOD- The Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations may extend until the expiration of the 6-month period described
  in subsection (b) any approval granted by the Federal Savings and Loan
  Insurance Corporation that expires or would expire before the expiration
  of that 6-month period. In determining whether to grant such exemptions,
  the Chairman shall apply the standards that were applicable under section
  408(d)(6) as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE IV--DISSOLUTION AND TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS, PERSONNEL, AND PROPERTY OF
FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION
SEC. 401. DISSOLUTION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- On the date which is 60 days after the date of enactment
  of this Act, except as otherwise provided, the Federal Savings and Loan
  Insurance Corporation shall cease to exist and shall for all purposes be
  considered dissolved.
  (b) TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all
  functions previously performed under title IV of the National Housing Act
  by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation are transferred to
  and shall be performed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the
  Resolution Trust Corporation. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  shall have the power to take any action necessary on behalf of the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation in connection with its dissolution.
SEC. 402. CONTINUATION OF RULES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- All rules, regulations, and orders of the Federal Savings
  and Loan Insurance Corporation or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, as
  operating head thereof, in effect on the date of enactment of this Act
  which relate to--
  (1) the provision, rates, cancellation, or payment of insurance of accounts,
  (2) the administration of the insurance fund, or
  (3) the conduct of conservatorships or receiverships (including the handling
  of claims against receiverships),
shall remain in effect and shall be enforceable by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation, unless the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, after consultation with the Chairman of the
Office of Savings Associations, determines otherwise.
  (b) OTHER RULES, REGULATIONS- All other rules, regulations, orders, and
  administrative actions of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
  (not described in subsection (a)) shall remain in effect and--
  (1) shall be enforceable by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or
  (2) if such rules, regulations, orders, and administrative actions relate
  to a function which has been transferred to the Chairman of the Office of
  Savings Associations, such rules, regulations, orders, or administrative
  actions shall be enforceable by the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations.
  (c) ALLOCATION OF AUTHORITY- Not later than 60 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations
  and the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall identify
  the rules, regulations, and orders described in subsections (a) and (b)
  and shall publish in the Federal Register notice identifying such rules,
  regulations, and orders and the allocation of authority therefor. The
  foregoing requirement shall not apply to any order which by its terms
  provides for nondisclosure.
  (d) SAVINGS PROVISION- All orders, determinations, rules, and regulations,
  that--
  (1) have been issued, made, or allowed to become effective by the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, or by a court of competent
  jurisdiction, in the performance of functions which are transferred by
  this Act; and
  (2) are in effect on the date this Act takes effect, shall continue in
  effect according to their terms until modified, terminated, superseded,
  set aside, or revoked in accordance with law by the Chairman of the Office
  of Savings Associations, or by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
  or by a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
  (e) FDIC AUTHORITY OVER CERTAIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS- The Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation shall have the power to promulgate and enforce
  rules, regulations, or orders to prevent actions or practices of savings
  associations (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act) if such actions or practices pose a serious threat to the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund or the Bank Insurance Fund.
SEC. 403. PERSONNEL.
  The Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations, jointly with the Chairman
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, shall identify those employees
  of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (Board) and the Federal Savings and
  Loan Insurance Corporation who, on the date of enactment of this Act,
  engage in functions or activities which are transferred from the Board and
  the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation to the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation. The employees so identified shall be entitled to
  the following rights:
  (1) Each employee identified in a transferred function shall be transferred
  to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for employment and shall be
  guaranteed a position with the same status such employee had on the day
  immediately preceding the transfer.
  (2) In the case of an employee who occupies a position in the excepted
  service, the excepted appointing authority established pursuant to law or
  regulation of the Office of Personnel Management for filling such position
  will be transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
  (3) All Board and Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation employees
  transferring with their function shall be transferred to the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation not later than 60 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act.
  (4) All Board and Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation employees
  who transfer with their functions may be placed in competitive areas at
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation separate and apart from the competitive
  areas in existence at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation may provide for the assignment of a transferred
  employee in an excepted service position to a position in the competitive
  service. A transferring employee who is in the excepted service and is placed
  by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in a competitive service position
  shall have his or her appointment converted to career or career conditional
  in accordance with section 315.701 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations.
  (5) A transferring employee in the Senior Executive Service shall be
  placed in a comparable executive level position at the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation.
  (6) Transferring employees shall receive notice of their position assignment
  not later than 120 days after the effective date of their transfer.
  (7) Transferring employees shall be entitled to pay and grade retention
  in accordance with the principles reflected in regulations promulgated by
  the Office of Personnel Management pursuant to sections 5361 through 5366
  of title 5, United States Code.
  (8) Any employee who does not transfer with his or her function to the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be entitled to severance pay
  in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Office of Personnel
  Management pursuant to section 5595 of title 5, United States Code, and
  shall be entitled to placement assistance under the Office of Personnel
  Management's Displaced Employee Program in accordance with sections 330.301
  through 330.306 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations. Notwithstanding the
  foregoing, severance pay shall in no event be less than 90 days pay. All
  such severance pay shall be paid by the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations.
  (9) Each employee in an excepted service position who does not transfer
  shall be entitled to placement assistance under the Office of Personnel
  Management's Interagency Placement Assistance Program for a period of 120
  days after the effective date of the transfer.
  (10) If a transferred Board or Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
  employee declines an offer of employment by the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation and if such offer is not considered reasonable under regulations
  promulgated by the Office of Personnel Management pursuant to section
  8336(d)(1) or section 8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code, such
  employee shall be entitled to--
  (A) the benefits specified in paragraph (8) or (9), and
  (B) if otherwise eligible, shall be entitled to an early optional
  retirement under section 8336(d)(2) or section 8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5,
  United States Code.
Any benefits paid pursuant to this paragraph shall be paid by the Chairman
of the Office of Savings Associations.
  (11) If the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determines within
  one year after the transfer of functions that a reorganization of the
  combined workforce is required, such reorganization shall be deemed a
  `major reorganization' for purposes of affording transferred employees
  early optional retirement under section 8336(d)(2) or section 8414(b)(1)(B)
  of title 5, United States Code.
  (12) Any employee employed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  as a result of the transfer may retain through the end of the calendar
  year during which such transfer occurs membership in any employee benefit
  program of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, including insurance, which he
  or she has on the date of enactment of this Act, if the employee does not
  elect to give up such membership and the benefit or program is continued by
  the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations. The difference in the
  cost between the benefits which would have been provided by the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation and those provided by this section shall be
  paid by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations.
  (13) Subject to the exclusions set forth in section 7112(b) of title 5,
  United States Code, an employee transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation shall be subject only to the provisions of labor organization
  certification and collective bargaining structures in place at the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation.
SEC. 404. DIVISION OF PROPERTY AND PERSONNEL.
  Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chairman
  of the Office of Savings Associations, jointly with the Chairman of the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, shall in accordance with this Act
  divide between the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations and the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, all personnel and all property of
  the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home
  Loan Bank Board. Any disagreement shall be resolved by the Director of
  the Office of Management and Budget.
SEC. 405. REPEALS.
  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, sections 401, 402, 403, 404,
  405, 406, 407 (except subsection (m)), 411, and 415 of the National Housing
  Act are hereby repealed.
SEC. 406. REPORT.
  Immediately prior to its dissolution, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
  Corporation shall provide in writing to the Secretary of the Treasury,
  the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and to the Congress,
  a final accounting of its finances and operations.
TITLE V--FINANCING FOR THRIFT RESOLUTIONS
Subtitle A--Resolution Trust Corporation
SEC. 501. RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.
  The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) is amended by
  inserting after section 21 the following new section:
`SEC. 21A. RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Resolution Trust
  Corporation (hereinafter referred to as the `Corporation') with the
  powers and authorities herein provided. The Corporation shall be under the
  direction of the Oversight Board. The Oversight Board and the Corporation
  shall not be an `agency' or `executive agency' for purposes of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(b) PURPOSES- The purpose of the Corporation shall be to carry out a
  program, under the direction of the Oversight Board--
  `(1) to manage and resolve all cases involving institutions, the accounts of
  which were insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation,
  prior to the effective date of the FIRRE Act, for which a receiver or
  liquidating conservator--
  `(A) was appointed between January 1, 1989, and the date of enactment of
  such Act, or
  `(B) is appointed within 36 months after the date of the enactment of
  such Act;
  `(2) to manage and wind up or otherwise dispose of the assets of the
  Federal Asset Disposition Association;
  `(3) to conduct the operations of the Corporation in a manner which maximizes
  the recoveries on assets acquired by the Corporation, make efficient use of
  funds obtained from the Funding Corporation, and minimize losses realized
  in the resolution of cases; and
  `(4) to perform such other functions as authorized under this Act.
  `(c) Authority and Limitations-
  `(1) In carrying out its activities, the Corporation shall possess all
  of the rights, powers, duties, and obligations provided in sections 11,
  12, and 13 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or otherwise granted
  herein. The Corporation shall not have the power to obligate the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation or its funds. In connection with providing
  assistance to an institution, the Corporation shall consider and be subject
  to the limitations set forth in section 13(c)(4) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act.
  `(2)(A) As of the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, the Corporation shall
  replace the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation as liquidating
  conservator or receiver (without any further action by the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations) with respect to any institution for
  which a liquidating conservator or receiver was appointed by the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Board between January 1, 1989 and the date of enactment of
  the FIRRE Act,
  `(B) During the 36 months following the date of enactment of the FIRRE
  Act, whenever the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has the power or
  authority to appoint itself as liquidating conservator or receiver for a
  Savings Association Insurance Fund member, the Corporation shall have such
  power and authority, and whenever the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations shall appoint a liquidating conservator or receiver for any
  such member, only the Corporation shall be appointed.
  `(d) OVERSIGHT BOARD-
  `(1) MEMBERSHIP- The Oversight Board of the Resolution Trust Corporation,
  shall serve as the board of directors thereof, and shall consist of
  5 members--
  `(A) the Secretary of the Treasury,
  `(B) the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board,
  `(C) the Attorney General of the United States, and
  `(D) 2 members from the private sector.
  `(2) CHAIRMAN- The Chairman of the Oversight Board shall be the Secretary
  of the Treasury.
  `(3) PRIVATE SECTOR MEMBERS- The 2 private sector members shall be
  appointed by the President and shall have substantial experience in the
  management of large business organizations engaged in real estate, finance,
  or development activities.
  `(4) TERMS OF OFFICE, SUCCESSION, DELEGATION, AND VACANCIES- The term of
  each member of the Oversight Board shall expire when the Resolution Trust
  Corporation is terminated. Vacancies on the Oversight Board shall be filled
  in the same manner as the vacant position was previously filled.
  `(5) COMPENSATION- Members of the Oversight Board shall receive reasonable
  allowances for necessary expenses of travel, lodging, and subsistence
  incurred in attending meetings and other activities of the Oversight Board,
  as set forth in the Oversight Board's bylaws, except that such allowances
  shall not exceed the maximum fixed by subchapter 1 of chapter 57 of title 5,
  United States Code, for officers and employees of the United States.
  `(6) DUTIES- The Oversight Board shall review and have overall responsibility
  over the work, progress, management and activities of the Corporation. The
  Oversight Board shall approve or disapprove, in its discretion, any
  regulation, policy, procedure, guideline, statement, contract, and
  other action of the Resolution Trust Corporation, and shall approve or
  disapprove, in its discretion, any agreement for the disposition of an
  institution under its management including an agreement for the purchase
  of assets and assumption of liabilities, consolidation or merger, or any
  other transaction by which any person or entity will acquire an institution
  subject to the provisions of this Act. Nothing in this paragraph shall
  preclude the Oversight Board from delegating authority to the chief
  executive officer or other appropriate employee of the Corporation.
  `(7) QUORUM REQUIRED- A quorum shall consist of 3 members of the Oversight
  Board and all decisions of the Board shall require an affirmative vote of
  at least a majority of the members voting.
  `(8) STAFF- The Oversight Board is authorized to employ such staff as
  it deems necessary and appropriate to fulfill its obligations under
  this Act. Such staff shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
  employment applicable to the Corporation. In addition, the Oversight Board
  may utilize the personnel of the agencies of the three government members
  without additional compensation.
  `(9) RULES AND RECORDS- The Oversight Board shall adopt such rules as it may
  deem appropriate for the transaction of its business and the accomplishment
  of its duties hereunder, and shall keep permanent and accurate records of
  its acts and proceedings.
  `(e) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER- A chief executive officer of the Corporation
  shall be selected by the Oversight Board and shall serve at the pleasure
  of the Board.
  `(f) CORPORATE POWERS- The Corporation shall be a body corporate and shall
  have the power to--
  `(1) operate under the direction of the Oversight Board;
  `(2) adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal, which shall be judicially noted;
  `(3) issue capital certificates as provided in this Act;
  `(4)(A) provide for one, or more vice presidents, a secretary, a treasurer,
  and such other officers, employees, and agents, as may be necessary,
  `(B) define the duties of such officers, employees, and agents, and
  `(C) require surety bonds or make other provisions against losses occasioned
  by acts of such officers, employees, and agents;
  `(5) subject to the approval of the Oversight Board, hire, promote,
  compensate, and discharge officers and employees of the Corporation,
  without regard to title 5, United States Code. The compensation and benefits
  of such employees shall be consistent with those of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation;
  `(6) prescribe, with the approval of the Oversight Board, bylaws which
  shall be consistent with law and shall provide for the manner in which--
  `(A) its officers, employees, and agents are selected;
  `(B) its property is acquired, held, and transferred;
  `(C) its general operations are to be conducted; and
  `(D) the privileges granted to such Corporation by law are exercised
  and enjoyed;
  `(7) with the consent of any executive department or agency, avail itself
  on a reimbursable basis of the use of information, services, staff, and
  facilities of such department or agency;
  `(8) enter into contracts and make advance, progress, or other payments
  with respect to such contracts;
  `(9) lease, purchase, or acquire any property, real, personal, or mixed,
  or any interest therein, to hold, rent, maintain, modernize, renovate,
  improve, use, and operate such property, to mortgage, pledge, or hypothecate
  such property, and to sell for cash or credit, lease, or otherwise dispose
  of the same;
  `(10) enter into joint ventures;
  `(11) obtain insurance against loss;
  `(12) modify or consent to the modification of any contract or agreement
  to which it is a party or in which it has an interest under this Act;
  `(13) deposit its securities and its current funds under the terms and
  conditions applicable to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under
  section 13(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and pay fees therefor
  and receive interest thereon as may be agreed;
  `(14) take (whenever possible) warrants, voting and nonvoting equity, or
  other participation interests in insured financial institutions or their
  holding companies, or assets or properties of institutions liquidated or
  otherwise resolved by the Corporation;
  `(15) accept gifts or donations of services or of property, real or
  personal; and
  `(16) exercise such other powers as set forth in this Act, and such
  incidental powers as are necessary to carry out its powers, duties, and
  functions in accordance with this Act.
  `(g) Special Powers-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Resolution Trust Corporation is authorized--
  `(A) to set the policy on credit standards to be used by any institution
  for which it is responsible;
  `(B) to require a merger or consolidation of an institution for which it
  is responsible;
  `(C) to review and analyze (with the assistance of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation) all insolvent institution cases resolved by the
  Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation from January 1, 1988, until
  the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, and to actively review all means by
  which it can reduce costs under existing Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
  Corporation agreements relating to such cases, including restructuring
  such agreements. The Corporation shall report to the Oversight Board the
  results and conclusions of its review and may restructure or exercise legal
  rights with respect to such agreements where savings would be realized,
  if restructuring is permitted by the terms of the resolution agreement and
  is concurred in by the Oversight Board. The costs of such restructuring
  shall be a liability of the Corporation or the FSLIC Resolution Fund as
  determined by the Corporation;
  `(D) to exercise all resolution powers and activities, which the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation is authorized to exercise under the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act and which the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
  Corporation was authorized to exercise under title IV of the National
  Housing Act (as in effect on the day preceding the date of enactment of
  the FIRRE Act), including the powers and authorities--
  `(i) with respect to receiverships or conservatorships,
  `(ii) to engage in assistance transactions,
  `(iii) to collect indebtedness,
  `(iv) to enforce liabilities and obligations,
  `(v) to renegotiate debt instruments, and
  `(vi) to exercise any incidental power and authority similar to those
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation which may be necessary to
  fulfill its obligations and duties under this Act; and
  `(E) to take such other action as it determines may be necessary to carry
  out the purposes of this section.
  `(2) Contractual powers-
  `(A) GENERAL RULE- The Corporation is authorized to enter into contracts
  with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and with such other persons
  or entities, public and private, including State housing finance authorities
  (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), as it deems
  advisable and necessary in order to carry out its functions and purposes. The
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be the primary manager of the
  Corporation in accordance with an agreement between the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation and the Corporation, except in such case where the
  Corporation shall specifically contract with another person or entity.
  `(B) Limitations-
  `(i) Except as provided in clause (iii), all contracts with persons or
  entities other than the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation must be
  subject to a competitive bid process.
  `(ii) The Corporation shall compensate the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation for all costs and expenses which the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation may incur in connection with services it provides.
  `(iii) When exercising the rights and powers of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation as conservator or receiver, the Corporation shall
  contract in accordance with the procedures applicable under the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act and regulations thereunder.
  `(h) Institutions Organized by the Corporation-
  `(1) All insured savings associations organized by the Corporation under this
  section shall be subject to such limitations, restrictions, and conditions
  as determined by the Corporation with respect to the following activities--
  `(A) growth of assets;
  `(B) lending activities;
  `(C) asset acquisitions (except as necessary to serve its existing customer
  base with residential mortgages or consumer loans);
  `(D) use of brokered deposits; and
  `(E) payment of deposit rates.
  `(2) All insured savings associations organized by the Corporation shall
  be subject to all laws, rules, and regulations otherwise applicable to
  them as insured savings associations.
  `(3) Any insured savings association organized by the Corporation under
  this section that holds deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation shall continue to be subject to supervision by the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  as provided by law.
  `(i) FADA- The Corporation shall convert the Federal Asset Disposition
  Association to a corporation or other business entity and sell such other
  corporate entity or business entity, or dissolve and wind up the affairs of
  such Association. In connection with any such sale, no contractual rights
  to manage the resolution of a savings association shall be transferred.
  `(j) CAPITAL CERTIFICATES- The Corporation shall be authorized to issue
  capital certificates to the Resolution Funding Corporation consistent with
  the provisions of section 21B of this Act in the following manner:
  `(1) AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE- The Corporation is hereby authorized to issue
  to the Resolution Funding Corporation nonvoting capital certificates.
  `(2) REQUIREMENT RELATING TO THE AMOUNT OF CERTIFICATES- The amount
  of certificates issued by the Corporation under paragraph (1) shall be
  equal to the aggregate amount of funds provided by the Resolution Funding
  Corporation to the Corporation under section 21B.
  `(3) CERTIFICATES MAY BE ISSUED ONLY TO THE RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION-
  Capital certificates issued under paragraph (1) may be issued only to the
  Resolution Funding Corporation in the manner and to the extent provided
  in section 21B and this section.
  `(4) NO DIVIDENDS- The Corporation shall not pay dividends on any capital
  certificates issued under this section.
  `(k) EXEMPTION FROM TAXATION- The Resolution Trust Corporation, the capital,
  reserves, and surplus thereof, and the income derived therefrom, shall
  be exempt from Federal, State, municipal, and local taxation, except real
  estate held by the Corporation may be taxed according to its value to the
  same extent as other real property is taxed.
  `(l) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- Administrative expenses approved by the
  Oversight Board shall be paid from proceeds received from the Resolution
  Funding Corporation from the issuance of its obligations.
  `(m) TERMINATION-
 `(1) RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION- The Resolution Trust Corporation shall
 terminate on the expiration of the date which is 5 years after the date of
 enactment of the FIRRE Act.
 `(2) CASE RESOLUTIONS- Simultaneously with the termination of the Corporation,
 all assets and liabilities of the Corporation shall be transferred to
 the FSLIC Resolution Fund to be managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation with the proceeds of the net assets being provided to the
 Resolution Funding Corporation.
  `(n) POWER TO REMOVE: JURISDICTION- Notwithstanding any other provision
  of law, any civil action, suit, or proceeding to which the Corporation is
  a party shall be deemed to arise under the laws of the United States, and
  the United States district courts shall have original jurisdiction. The
  Corporation may, without bond or security, remove any such action, suit,
  or proceeding from a State court to the United States District Court for
  the District of Columbia, or if the action, suit, or proceeding arises out
  of the actions of the Corporation with respect to an institution for which
  a receiver or liquidating conservator has been appointed, the United States
  district court for the district where the institution is located. Nothing
  in this section shall imply a grant of jurisdiction not otherwise granted
  under section 11(m) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act when the Corporation
  exercises the powers and functions as conservator or receiver under such Act.
  `(o) Guarantees of FSLIC-
  `(1) Guarantees issued by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
  after January 1, 1989, and before the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act,
  made in connection with loans made to savings associations extended by the
  Federal Reserve Banks and Federal Home Loan Banks (the `Lenders'), and
  guaranteed by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation during
  such period, shall by operation of law and without further action by the
  Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations, the Federal Savings and
  Loan Insurance Corporation, or any court, become and be converted into
  obligations, entitlements, and instruments of the Corporation.
  `(2) Obligations under the guarantees to the Lenders, assumed by the
  Corporation under paragraph (1), shall be paid by the Corporation not later
  than one year after the date of enactment of this section if such loans have
  not previously been paid. Payment shall be made using any funds or other
  assets available to the Corporation, including any resources available to
  it through borrowing by the Resolution Funding Corporation.
  `(p) ISSUE REGULATIONS- The Corporation may issue such regulations,
  policies, procedures, guidelines, or statements as it considers necessary
  or appropriate to carry out this section. Such regulations, policies,
  procedures, guidelines, or statements shall be promulgated and enforced
  without regard to subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States
  Code, and, when relating to the Corporation's exercise of rights and powers
  under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall be consistent with such Act
  and regulations thereunder.
  `(q) BORROWING- The Corporation is authorized to borrow from the Treasury,
  and the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to loan to
  the Corporation on such terms as may be established by the Secretary of
  the Treasury, an amount not to exceed $5,000,000,000 outstanding at any
  one time. Each such loan shall bear interest at a rate determined by the
  Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current market yield
  on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with comparable
  maturities. For purposes of this subsection, the Secretary of the Treasury
  is authorized to use as a public-debt transaction the proceeds of the sale
  of any securities hereafter issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as
  now or hereafter in force, and the purposes for which securities may be
  issued under the Second Liberty Bond Act, as now or hereafter in force,
  are hereby extended to include such loans.
  `(r) SOLICITATION AND SELECTION OF OFFERS FOR ASSISTED ACQUISITIONS AND
  ASSET DISPOSITION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall prescribe procedures for the
  solicitation and selection of offers for assisted acquisitions and
  disposition of assets of institutions for which the Corporation is
  responsible, subject to approval by the Oversight Board. The procedures
  shall, consistent with the objectives of assisted acquisitions, provide
  for adequate competition, and fair and consistent treatment of offerors,
  and shall minimize cost to the Corporation and the Government.
  `(2) DOCUMENTATION OF DECISIONS- The Corporation shall document decisions
  made in the solicitation and selection process and the reasons for the
  decisions. The Corporation shall maintain this documentation as well as
  any other documentation relating to the solicitation and selection process
  in its offices.
  `(s) REPORTS AND AUDITS-
  `(1) REPORTS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall annually submit a full report of
  its and the Oversight Board's operations, activities, budget, receipts,
  and expenditures for the preceding 12-month period. The report shall
  include statements of financial position, income and expense, and cash
  flow, an analysis of surplus or deficit, and such additional statements
  and information as necessary to make known the financial condition and
  operations of the Corporation in accordance with generally accepted
  accounting principles. The report also shall include the Corporation's
  financial operating plans and forecasts (including estimates of actual and
  future spending, and estimates of actual and future noncash obligations)
  taking into account the Corporation's financial commitments, guarantees,
  and other contingent liabilities.
  `(B) SEMIANNUAL REPORTS- In addition to the annual report, the Corporation
  shall submit by April 30 and October 31 of each year, a semiannual report on
  activities and conditions of the Corporation for the 6-month period ending
  on the last day of the month prior to the month in which such report is
  to be submitted. Such semiannual report shall include--
  `(i) a statement of the total book value of assets held by the Corporation
  at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period,
  `(ii) the total book value of the Corporation's assets which are under
  the management of private persons and entities at the end of the reporting
  period,
  `(iii) the total book value and total sale value of assets disposed of
  during the reporting period,
  `(iv) summary data on discounts from book value at which assets of the
  Corporation were sold or otherwise disposed of during the reporting period,
  `(v) a list of all of the areas that carried a distressed area designation
  during the reporting period (including a justification for removal of
  areas from or addition of areas to the list of distressed areas),
  `(vi) an evaluation of market conditions in distressed areas and a
  description of any changes in conditions during the reporting period,
  `(vii) the number of employees of the Corporation at the end of the
  reporting period and the total amounts expended on employee wages and
  salaries during such period,
  `(viii) any change adopted by the Oversight Board in a minimum disposition
  price and the reasons for such change, and
  `(ix) the valuation method or methods adopted by the Corporation to value
  assets as well as the reasons for selection of those methods.
  `(C) SUBMISSION- The reports, including the results of the audit conducted
  pursuant to paragraph (2), shall be submitted to the President of the Senate
  and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall cause the same
  to be printed for the information of Congress, and to the President and
  with respect to the annual report, the submission shall be made as soon
  as practicable after the first day of January each year but not later than
  6 months after the close of the 12-month period covered by the report.
  `(2) AUDITS-
  `(A) ANNUAL AUDIT- The Comptroller General shall audit annually the
  financial statements of the Corporation in accordance with generally accepted
  government auditing standards unless the Comptroller General notifies the
  chief executive officer of the Corporation not later than 180 days before
  the close of a fiscal year that the Comptroller General will not perform
  such audit for that fiscal year. In the event of such notification, the
  Corporation shall contract with an independent certified public accountant
  to perform the annual audit of the Corporation's financial statement in
  accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
  `(B) ACCESS TO BOOKS AND RECORDS- All books, records, accounts, reports,
  files, and property belonging to or used by the Corporation (including
  the Oversight Board), or by an independent certified public accountant
  retained to audit the Corporation's financial statement, shall be made
  available to the Comptroller General.
  `(t) Asset Disposition-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall develop a strategic plan and shall
  establish and implement policies and procedures to--
  `(A) maximize the net present value of the return from the assets it owns
  or manages;
  `(B) minimize the disruption to the local real estate markets and banking
  and thrift communities caused by the Corporation's operations; and
  `(C) provide for an adequate level of capital for the operation of the
  Corporation.
The plan shall provide for the disposition of assets, consistent with the above
stated objectives, in the most efficient and orderly manner. Such policies
and procedures shall, at a minimum, take into consideration the current local
market conditions, an appropriate financing standard, the value of the asset,
the potential appreciation of and the expenses and risks associated with
holding the asset for a period of time, and the sources and cost of funds
to further develop the asset. The policies and procedures shall also provide
for adequate competition and fair and consistent treatment of third parties
seeking to conduct business with the Corporation. The Corporation's books and
records shall contain evidence of the Corporation's adherence to its plans,
policies, and procedures.
  `(2) REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARD-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall establish no more than 12 Regional
  Advisory Board districts. As soon as practicable, the Corporation shall
  establish, in each district but not later than 90 days after the date of
  enactment of the FIRRE Act, a Regional Advisory Board. The Regional Advisory
  Boards shall continue in existence as long as the Corporation shall be
  in existence. A Regional Advisory Board shall consist of 5 members. The
  chief executive officer of the Corporation shall appoint the members of
  a Regional Advisory Board, who shall serve at his pleasure. The members
  shall be selected from those residents of the region with knowledge and
  experience regarding business, financial and real estate matters. A Regional
  Advisory Board shall consult with the Corporation on the strategic plans,
  marketing strategies, financing standards, and the policies and procedures
  developed to dispose of assets in distressed areas, and such other concerns
  as may assist the Corporation in furtherance of its purpose.
  `(B) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS- Except as otherwise provided herein, the
  Regional Advisory Boards shall be subject to the provisions of the Federal
  Advisory Committee Act. The members shall not be compensated except for
  reimbursement from the Corporation for reasonable travel and lodging expenses
  incurred while attending official meetings of a Regional Advisory Board. A
  Regional Advisory Board shall meet four times a year, or more frequently
  if requested by the chief executive officer of the Corporation. A Regional
  Advisory Board shall conduct its meetings in its district.
  `(C) RULES AND PROCEDURES- A Regional Advisory Board shall elect a chairman,
  vice-chairman, and secretary. The rules and procedures for the Regional
  Advisory Boards shall be established by the Corporation.
  `(3) ALTERNATIVE PUBLIC USES- When the value of an asset has decreased so
  that no reasonable recovery is anticipated, the Corporation may consider
  potential public uses of such asset including providing shelter for the
  homeless, day care centers for the children of low- and moderate-income
  families, or such other public purpose designated by the Secretary of
  Housing and Urban Development.
  `(4) Distressed areas-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- In developing its strategic plan, the Corporation shall
  take the following steps to avoid adverse economic impact for those real
  estate markets that are distressed.
  `(B) VALUATION AND DISPOSITION- The Corporation shall establish an
  appraisal or other valuation method for determining the market value of
  real property. With respect to a real property asset with a market value
  in excess of a certain dollar limit, (such limit to be determined by the
  Oversight Board) consideration shall be given to the volume of assets
  above such limit and the potential impact of sales in such distressed
  areas. The Corporation shall not sell a real property asset located in a
  distressed area without obtaining at least the minimum disposition price,
  unless the chief executive officer, or his designees, determines that
  such a transaction furthers the three objectives set forth in paragraph
  (1) and the objective of this subsection.
  `(5) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this subsection:
  `(A) The term `minimum disposition price' means 95 percent of the market
  value established by the Corporation. The Oversight Board, in its discretion,
  may change the percentage set forth in this definition from time to time if
  the Oversight Board determines that such change does not adversely impact
  the objectives set forth in paragraph (1).
  `(B) The term `sell a real property asset' means to convey all title and
  interest in a piece of tangible real property in which the Corporation
  has a fee simple or equivalent interest. The term `real property' does
  not include loans secured by real property, joint ventures, participation
  interests, options, or other similar interests. In addition, the term
  `sell' does not include hypothecation of assets, issuance of asset backed
  securities, issuance of joint ventures, or participation interests, or
  other similar activities.
  `(C) The term `distressed area' means the geographic areas in those
  political subdivisions designated from time to time by the Oversight Board as
  having depressed real estate markets. Until the Oversight Board designates
  otherwise, such distressed areas shall be the States of Arkansas, Colorado,
  Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.
  `(D) The term `market value' means the most probable price which a property
  should bring in a competitive and open market if--
  `(i) all conditions requisite to a fair sale are present,
  `(ii) the buyer and seller are acting prudently and are knowledgable, and
  `(iii) the price is not affected by any undue stimulus.
  `(u) EMPLOYEES AND INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS- For purposes of this Act,
  employees of the Corporation and independent contractors of the Corporation
  shall be subject to conflict of interest rules and ethical standards no
  less stringent than those applicable to employees of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Such rules
  and standards shall be promulgated by the Oversight Board, and incorporated
  into all agreements with independent contractors. Independent contractors
  and employees of the Corporation shall be subject to the penalties applicable
  to employees of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
  `(v) ROLE OF PRIVATE SECTOR- In carrying out the provisions of this section,
  the Corporation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the
  Oversight Board should utilize resources of private persons and entities
  for services, including real estate and loan portfolio asset management,
  property management, and brokerage, if such services are available in
  the private sector and utilization of such services would be practicable
  and efficient.'.
Subtitle B--Resolution Funding Corporation
SEC. 502. RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.
  The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) is amended by
  inserting after section 21A the following new section:
`SEC. 21B. RESOLUTION FUNDING CORPORATION ESTABLISHED.
  `(a) PURPOSE- The purpose of the Resolution Funding Corporation is to
  provide funds to the Resolution Trust Corporation to enable the Resolution
  Trust Corporation to carry out the provisions of this Act.
  `(b) ESTABLISHMENT- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and
  not later than 5 days after the date of enactment of this section, the
  Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations is authorized and directed
  to charter a corporation to be known as the Resolution Funding Corporation
  (hereinafter referred to as the `Funding Corporation').
  `(c) MANAGEMENT OF THE FUNDING CORPORATION-
  `(1) DIRECTORATE- The Funding Corporation shall be under the management
  of a Directorate composed of 3 members as follows:
  `(A) The director of the Office of Finance of the Federal Home Loan Banks
  (or the head of any successor office); and
  `(B) Two members selected by the Oversight Board from among the presidents
  of the Federal Home Loan Banks.
  `(2) TERMS- Of the two members appointed under paragraph (1)(B), one shall
  be appointed for an initial term of two years and one shall be appointed for
  an initial term of three years. Thereafter, such member shall be appointed
  for a term of three years.
  `(3) VACANCY- If any member leaves the office in which such member was
  serving when appointed to the Directorate--
  `(A) such member's service on the Directorate shall terminate on the date
  such member leaves such office; and
  `(B) the successor to the office of such member shall serve the remainder
  of such member's term.
  `(4) EQUAL REPRESENTATION OF BANKS- No president of a Federal Home Loan
  Bank may be appointed to serve an additional term on the Directorate until
  such time as the presidents of each of the other Federal Home Loan Banks
  have served as many terms as the president of such bank.
  `(5) CHAIRPERSON- The Oversight Board shall select the chairperson of the
  Directorate from among the three members of the Directorate.
  `(6) STAFF-
  `(A) NO PAID EMPLOYEES- The Funding Corporation shall have no paid employees.
  `(B) POWERS- The Directorate may, with the approval of the Chairman of
  the Office of Savings Associations, authorize the officers, employees,
  or agents of the Federal Home Loan Banks to act for and on behalf of the
  Funding Corporation in such manner as may be necessary to carry out the
  functions of the Funding Corporation.
  `(7) Administrative expenses-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- All administrative expenses of the Funding Corporation
  shall be paid by the Federal Home Loan Banks.
  `(B) PRO RATA DISTRIBUTION- The amount each Federal Home Loan Bank shall
  pay shall be determined by the Oversight Board by multiplying the total
  administrative expenses for any period by the percentage arrived at by
  dividing--
  `(i) the aggregate amount the Oversight Board required such bank to
  invest in the Funding Corporation (as of the time of such determination)
  under paragraphs (4) and (5) of subsection (e) (computed without regard
  to paragraphs (3) or (6) of such subsection); by
  `(ii) the aggregate amount the Oversight Board required all Federal Home Loan
  Banks to invest (as of the time of such determination) under such paragraphs.
  `(C) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES DEFINED- For purposes of this paragraph,
  the term `administrative expenses' does not include--
  `(i) any interest on and any redemption premium with respect to any
  obligation of the Funding Corporation;
  `(ii) custodian fees (as such term is defined in subsection (k)(5) of this
  section); or
  `(iii) issuance costs (as defined in subsection (k)(4)).
  `(8) REGULATION BY OVERSIGHT BOARD- The Directorate of the Funding
  Corporation shall be subject to such regulations, orders, and directions
  as the Oversight Board may prescribe.
  `(9) NO COMPENSATION FROM FUNDING CORPORATION- Members of the Directorate
  of the Funding Corporation shall receive no pay, allowance, or benefit
  from the Funding Corporation for serving on the Directorate.
  `(d) POWERS OF THE FUNDING CORPORATION- The Funding Corporation shall
  have only the powers described in paragraphs (1) through (9), subject
  to the other provisions of this section and such regulations, orders,
  and directions as the Oversight Board may prescribe:
  `(1) To issue nonvoting capital stock to the Federal Home Loan Banks;
  `(2) To purchase capital certificates issued by the Resolution Trust
  Corporation under section 21A;
  `(3) To issue debentures, bonds, or other obligations, and to borrow,
  to give security for any amount borrowed, and to pay interest on (and any
  redemption premium with respect to) any such obligation or amount;
  `(4) To impose assessments in accordance with subsection (e)(7);
  `(5) To adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal;
  `(6) To have succession until dissolved;
  `(7) To enter into contracts;
  `(8) To sue and be sued in its corporate capacity, and to complain and
  defend in any action brought by or against the Funding Corporation in any
  State or Federal court of competent jurisdiction; and
  `(9) To exercise such incidental powers not inconsistent with the provisions
  of this section and section 21A as are necessary and appropriate to carry
  out the provisions of this section.
  `(e) CAPITALIZATION OF THE FUNDING CORPORATION-
  `(1) PURCHASE OF CAPITAL STOCK BY FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS- Each Federal Home
  Loan Bank shall invest in nonvoting capital stock of the Funding Corporation
  at such times and in such amounts as the Oversight Board may prescribe.
  `(2) PAR VALUE; TRANSFERABILITY- Each share of stock issued by the Funding
  Corporation to a Federal Home Loan Bank shall have a par value in an amount
  determined by the Oversight Board and shall be transferable at not less
  than par value only among the Federal Home Loan Banks in the manner and
  to the extent prescribed by the Oversight Board.
  `(3) MAXIMUM INVESTMENT AMOUNT LIMITATION FOR EACH FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK-
  The aggregate amount of funds invested in nonvoting capital stock of the
  Funding Corporation by each Federal Home Loan Bank shall not exceed the
  aggregate amount calculated under subparagraphs (A) and (B):
  `(A) the sum of--
  `(i) the reserves maintained by such bank on December 31, 1988, pursuant
  to the requirement contained in the first two sentences of section 16 of
  this Act; and
  `(ii) the undivided profits (as defined in paragraph (8)) of such bank on
  such date; minus
  `(I) the amounts (as of December 31, 1988) invested in the capital stock
  of the Financing Corporation pursuant to section 21 of this Act; and
  `(II) the amount of any reserves that the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations may, by regulation, require such bank to maintain in order to
  meet such bank's obligations pursuant to sections 18, 21(b)(7) and 21B(c)(7)
  of this Act and section 403 of the FIRRE Act; and
  `(B) for the period December 31, 1988, through December 31, 1991, or such
  later date as may be necessary to fund the Funding Corporation Principal
  Fund (as described in subsection (g)(2)), the sum of--
  `(i) the amounts added to reserves after December 31, 1988, pursuant to
  the requirement contained in the first two sentences of section 16 of this
  Act; and
  `(ii) the undivided profits of such bank accruing after December 31,
  1988; minus
  `(I) the amounts used to invest in the capital stock of the Financing
  Corporation pursuant to the requirement contained in section 21 of this
  Act after December 31, 1988; and
  `(II) the amount of any reserves that the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations may, by regulation, require such bank to maintain in order
  to meet such bank's obligations pursuant to sections 18, 21(b)(7), and
  21B(c)(7) of this Act and section 403 of the FIRRE Act; and
  `(iii) in the event the aggregate amount for all Federal Home Loan Banks
  determined under this subparagraph is less than $300,000,000, an additional
  amount determined by allocating the deficiency among the banks in accordance
  with the formula contained in paragraph (5).
  `(4) PRO RATA DISTRIBUTION OF FIRST $1,000,000,000 INVESTED IN THE
  FUNDING CORPORATION BY THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS- With respect to the
  first $1,000,000,000 in the aggregate which the Chairman of the Office
  of Savings Associations (pursuant to section 21) or the Oversight Board
  (under this section), may require the Federal Home Loan Banks to invest in
  the capital stock of the Financing Corporation or the Funding Corporation,
  the amount which each Federal Home Loan Bank (or any successor to such bank)
  shall invest shall be determined by the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations or the Oversight Board, as the case may be, by applying to the
  aggregate amount of such investment by all banks the percentage appearing
  in the following table for each such bank:
`Bank
--Percentage
1.8629
9.1006
4.2702
14.4007
8.2653
5.2863
9.6886
6.9301
8.8181
5.2706
19.9644
6.1422
  `(5) PRO RATA DISTRIBUTION OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE INVESTED IN EXCESS
  OF $1,000,000,000- With respect to any amount in excess of $1,000,000,000
  which the Oversight Board may require the Federal Home Loan Banks to invest
  in capital stock of the Funding Corporation under this subsection, the
  amount which each Federal Home Loan Bank (or any successor to such bank)
  shall invest shall be determined by the Oversight Board by multiplying
  such excess amount by the percentage arrived at by dividing--
  `(A) the sum of the total assets (as of the most recent December 31)
  held by all insured savings associations which are members of such bank; by
  `(B) the sum of the total assets (as of such date) held by all insured
  savings associations which are members of a Federal Home Loan Bank.
  `(6) SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO MAXIMUM AMOUNT LIMITATIONS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- If the amount any Federal Home Loan Bank is required
  to invest in capital stock of the Funding Corporation under paragraph (5)
  exceeds the maximum investment amount applicable to such bank under paragraph
  (3) at the time of such determination (hereinafter the `excess amount')--
  `(i) the Oversight Board shall require each remaining Federal Home Loan
  Bank to invest (in addition to the amount determined under paragraph
  (5) for such remaining bank and subject to the maximum investment amount
  applicable with respect to such remaining bank under paragraph (3) at the
  time of such determination) in such capital stock on behalf of the bank
  in the amount determined under subparagraph (B);
  `(ii) the Oversight Board shall require the bank to subsequently purchase
  the excess amount of capital stock from the remaining banks in the manner
  described in subparagraph (C); and
  `(iii) the requirements contained in subparagraphs (D) and (E) relating
  to the use of net earnings available for dividends shall apply to such
  bank until the bank has purchased all of the excess amount of capital stock.
  `(B) ALLOCATION OF EXCESS AMOUNT AMONG REMAINING HOME LOAN BANKS-
  `(i) The amount each remaining Federal Home Loan Bank shall be required to
  invest under subparagraph (A)(i) is the amount determined by the Oversight
  Board by multiplying the excess amount by the percentage arrived at by
  dividing--
  `(I) the amount of capital stock of the Funding Corporation held by such
  remaining bank at the time of such determination; by
  `(II) the aggregate amount of such stock held by all remaining banks at
  such time.
  `(ii) If the allocation under this subparagraph results in a remaining bank
  exceeding its maximum investment amount under paragraph (3), such excess
  amount shall be reallocated to the other remaining banks in accordance
  with this subparagraph.
  `(C) PURCHASE PROCEDURE-
  `(i) The bank on whose behalf an investment in capital stock is made under
  subparagraph (A)(i) shall purchase stock annually from each remaining bank
  at a price equal to the issuance price plus interest which shall accrue
  at the rate of the average cost of funds to the Federal Home Loan Banks
  during the prior year. No interest shall accrue during the first year
  following issuance of such stock.
  `(ii) The Oversight Board shall determine the dollar amount of such stock to
  be purchased from each remaining bank by multiplying the amount available
  for such purchases (at the time of such determination) by the percentage
  determined under subparagraph (B) with respect to such remaining bank until
  the aggregate amount of such capital stock has been purchased by the bank.
  `(D) LIMITATION ON DIVIDENDS- Until such time as a bank on whose behalf
  an investment is made under subparagraph (A)(i) has purchased all of the
  stock purchased on its behalf, the amount of dividends which may be paid
  for any year by such bank shall not exceed an amount equal to 80 percent
  of the net earnings available for dividends of the bank for the year. For
  purposes of this subparagraph and the dividend limitations contained in
  section 16, net earnings shall be calculated before taking into account
  any amount needed to purchase capital stock under paragraph (5), or under
  subparagraph (A) or (C) of this paragraph.
  `(E) TRANSFER TO ACCOUNT FOR THE PURCHASE OF STOCK REQUIRED- Of the
  net earnings available for dividends for any year of a bank on whose
  behalf an investment is made under subparagraph (A)(i), such amount as
  is necessary to make the purchases of stock required under subparagraph
  (A)(ii) shall be placed in a reserve account (established in such manner
  as the Oversight Board shall prescribe by regulations) the balance of
  which shall be available only for such purchases.
  `(F) NET EARNINGS AVAILABLE FOR DIVIDENDS DEFINED- For purposes of this
  paragraph, the term `net earnings available for dividends' means the net
  earnings of a bank for any period as computed after reducing the amount
  of earnings for such period by the amount required to be carried (for
  such period) to reserves maintained by such bank pursuant to the first
  two sentences of section 16 of this Act.
  `(7) ADDITIONAL SOURCES- In the event that each Federal Home Loan Bank
  has exhausted the investment amount applicable with respect to such bank
  under paragraph (3) with respect to investments under paragraphs (4),
  (5), and (6), then the amounts necessary to provide additional funding
  for the Funding Corporation Principal Fund shall be obtained as follows:
  `(A) First, the Funding Corporation, with the approval of the Board of
  Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, shall assess each
  Savings Association Insurance Fund member an assessment in the same manner
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assesses such members under
  section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The maximum amount of the
  aggregate assessment shall be the amount of additional funds necessary to
  fund the Funding Corporation Principal Fund. However, the amount assessed
  under this subparagraph and the amount assessed by the Financing Corporation
  under section 21 shall not exceed the amount authorized to be assessed under
  section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The Financing Corporation
  shall have first priority to make such assessments and all such amounts
  shall be subtracted from the amounts authorized to be assessed by the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under section 7 of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(B) To the extent funds available pursuant to subparagraph (A) are
  insufficient to capitalize the Funding Corporation and to provide funds
  for the Funding Corporation Principal Fund, the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation shall transfer to the Funding Corporation from the proceeds of
  the FSLIC Resolution Fund (estimated under section 11A of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act) the remaining amount of funds necessary for such purpose.
  `(8) UNDIVIDED PROFITS DEFINED- For purposes of paragraph (3), the term
  `undivided profits' means retained earnings minus the sum of--
  `(A) that portion required to be added to reserves maintained pursuant to
  the first two sentences of section 16; and
  `(B) the dollar amounts held by the respective Federal Home Loan Banks in
  special dividend stabilization reserves on December 31, 1985, as determined
  by the table set forth in section 21(d)(7).
  `(f) OBLIGATIONS OF THE FUNDING CORPORATION-
  `(1) ISSUANCE- The Funding Corporation, subject to the direction of the
  Resolution Trust Corporation, may issue bonds, notes, debentures, and
  similar obligations, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000,000.
  `(2) INTEREST PAYMENTS- The Funding Corporation shall pay the interest
  due on (and any redemption premium with respect to) such obligations from
  funds obtained for such interest payments from the following sources.
  `(A) The Resolution Trust Corporation shall pay to the Funding Corporation--
  `(i) the net proceeds received by the Resolution Trust Corporation from the
  liquidation of institutions under its management (pursuant to section 21A)
  to the extent such proceeds are determined by the Oversight Board to be
  in excess of funds necessary for resolution costs, and
  `(ii) any proceeds from warrants and participations of the Resolution
  Trust Corporation; and
  `(B) To the extent the funds available pursuant to subparagraph (A) are
  insufficient to cover the amount of interest payments, then the Federal
  Home Loan Banks shall pay to the Funding Corporation the aggregate
  annual amount of $300,000,000 minus the amounts needed by the Financing
  Corporation (pursuant to section 21) and the amounts needed to purchase
  Funding Corporation capital certificates. Each bank's individual share
  shall be determined by the Oversight Board--
  `(i) by dividing--
  `(I) the aggregate average daily level of advances made in the prior year
  by such bank; by
  `(II) the aggregate average daily level of advances made in the prior year
  by all Federal Home Loan Banks; and
  `(ii) pursuant to the procedures and limitations of paragraphs (3), (4),
  and (6) of subsection (e).
  `(C) The proceeds of all net assets of the Resolution Trust Corporation, upon
  its dissolution, which shall be transferred to the Funding Corporation; and
  `(D) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, to the extent that the
  Directorate determines, after consultation with and approval by the Secretary
  of the Treasury, that the Funding Corporation is unable to pay the interest
  on any obligation issued under this subsection from the sources described
  in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay
  to the Funding Corporation the additional amount due which shall be used
  by the Funding Corporation to pay such interest. In each such instance
  where the Secretary of the Treasury is required to make a payment under
  this subparagraph, the amount of the payment shall become a liability
  of the Funding Corporation to be repaid to the Secretary of the Treasury
  upon dissolution of the Funding Corporation to the extent that the Funding
  Corporation may have any remaining assets. There are hereby appropriated
  to the Secretary of the Treasury, for fiscal year 1989 and each fiscal
  year thereafter, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this paragraph.
  `(3) PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS- On maturity of an obligation issued under this
  subsection, the obligation shall be repaid by the Funding Corporation from
  the liquidation of noninterest bearing instruments held in the Funding
  Corporation Principal Fund. The Funding Corporation shall obtain funds for
  such Principal Fund pursuant to subsection (e). All of such funds shall be
  invested in noninterest bearing instruments described in subsection (g)(1).
  `(4) PROCEEDS TO BE INVESTED IN CAPITAL CERTIFICATES OF THE RESOLUTION
  TRUST CORPORATION- Subject to such terms and conditions as may be approved
  by the Oversight Board, the proceeds (less any discount, plus any premiums)
  of any obligation issued by the Funding Corporation shall be used to--
  `(A) purchase the capital certificates issued by the Resolution Trust
  Corporation under section 21A of this Act; or
  `(B) refund any previously issued obligation the proceeds of which were
  invested in the manner described in subparagraph (A).
  `(5) INVESTMENT OF UNITED STATES FUNDS IN OBLIGATIONS- Obligations
  issued under this section by the Funding Corporation, at the direction of
  the Oversight Board shall be lawful investments, and may be accepted as
  security, for all fiduciary, trust, and public funds the investment or
  deposit of which shall be under the authority or control of the United
  States or any officer of the United States.
  `(6) MARKET FOR OBLIGATIONS- All persons having the power to invest in,
  sell, underwrite, purchase for their own accounts, accept as security, or
  otherwise deal in obligations of the Federal Home Loan Banks shall also have
  the power to do so with respect to obligations of the Funding Corporation.
  `(7) Tax exempt status-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), obligations of
  the Funding Corporation shall be exempt from tax both as to principal and
  interest to the same extent as any obligation of a Federal Home Loan Bank
  is exempt from tax under section 13 of this Act.
  `(B) EXCEPTION- The Funding Corporation, like the Federal Home Loan Banks,
  shall be treated as an agency of the United States for purposes of the first
  sentence of section 3124(b) of title 31, United States Code (relating to
  determination of tax status of interest on obligations).
  `(8) OBLIGATIONS ARE EXEMPT SECURITIES- Notwithstanding paragraph (10),
  obligations of the Funding Corporation shall be deemed to be exempt
  securities (within the meaning of the laws administered by the Securities
  and Exchange Commission) to the same extent as securities which are direct
  obligations of the United States or are guaranteed as to principal or
  interest by the United States.
  `(9) MINORITY PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC OR NEGOTIATED OFFERINGS- The
  Oversight Board and the Directorate shall ensure that minority owned or
  controlled commercial banks, investment banking firms, underwriters,
  and bond counsels throughout the United States have an opportunity to
  participate to a significant degree in any public or negotiated offering
  of obligations issued under this section.
  `(10) NO FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE UNITED STATES- Obligations of the
  Funding Corporation shall not be obligations of, or guaranteed as to
  principal by, the Federal Home Loan Bank System, the Federal Home Loan
  Banks, the United States, or the Resolution Trust Corporation and the
  obligations shall so plainly state. The Secretary of the Treasury shall
  pay interest on such obligations as required pursuant to this subsection.
  `(g) USE AND DISPOSITION OF ASSETS OF THE FUNDING CORPORATION NOT INVESTED
  IN RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to such regulations, restrictions, and limitations
  as may be prescribed by the Oversight Board, assets of the Funding
  Corporation, which are not required to be invested in capital certificates
  issued by the Resolution Trust Corporation under section 21A of this Act and
  which are not needed for current interest payments, shall be invested in--
  `(A) direct obligations of the United States;
  `(B) obligations, participations, or other instruments of, or issued by,
  the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Government National
  Mortgage Association;
  `(C) mortgages, obligations, or other securities for sale by, or which
  have been disposed of by, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation under
  section 305 or 306 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act; or
  `(D) any other security in which it is lawful for fiduciary and trust
  funds to be invested under the laws of any State.
  `(2) SEGREGATED ACCOUNT FOR ZERO COUPON INSTRUMENTS HELD TO ASSURE PAYMENT
  OF PRINCIPAL- The Funding Corporation shall invest funds from sources
  specified in subsection (e) in, and hold in a segregated account (the
  `Funding Corporation Principal Fund'), noninterest bearing instruments--
  `(A) which are securities described in paragraph (1); and
  `(B) the total of the face amounts (the amount of principal payable at
  maturity) of which is approximately equal to the aggregate amount of
  principal on the obligations of the Funding Corporation.
  `(3) EARNINGS ON CERTAIN ASSETS- All earnings on assets that are invested
  pursuant to paragraph (1) and not pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be used
  before the funds described in subsection (f)(2) to make interest payments
  on Funding Corporation obligations when interest is due.
For purposes of the foregoing, the Funding Corporation shall be deemed to
hold noninterest bearing instruments that it may lend temporarily to primary
United States Treasury dealers in order to enhance market liquidity and
facilitate deliveries, provided that United States Treasury securities of
equal or greater value have been delivered as collateral.
  `(h) Miscellaneous Provisions Relating to the Funding Corporation-
  `(1) TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES- Except as provided in subsection
  (f)(7)(B), the Funding Corporation shall be treated as a Federal Home Loan
  Bank for purposes of sections 13 and 23.
  `(2) FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AS DEPOSITARIES AND FISCAL AGENTS- The Federal
  Reserve banks are authorized to act as depositaries for or fiscal agents
  or custodians of the Funding Corporation.
  `(3) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELATING TO GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS-
  The Funding Corporation shall be treated, for purposes of sections 9105,
  9107, and 9108 of title 31, United States Code, as a mixed-ownership
  Government corporation which has capital of the Government.
  `(4) JURISDICTION AND POWER TO REMOVE-
  `(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any civil action, suit, or
  proceeding to which the Funding Corporation is a party shall be deemed to
  arise under the laws of the United States, and the United States District
  Court for the District of Columbia shall have original jurisdiction over
  such action, suit, or proceeding.
  `(B) The Funding Corporation may, without bond or security, remove any
  such action, suit, or proceeding from a State court to the United States
  District Court for the District of Columbia.
  `(5) ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE FUNDING CORPORATION-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Funding Corporation shall annually submit a full
  report of its operations, activities, budget, receipts, and expenditures
  for the preceding 12-month period. The report shall include--
  `(i) audited statements of financial position, income and expense, and cash
  flow, an analysis of surplus or deficit, and such additional statements
  and information as necessary to make known the financial condition and
  operations of the Corporation in accordance with generally accepted
  accounting principles; and
  `(ii) the Corporation's financial operating plans and forecasts (including
  estimates of actual and future spending, and estimates of actual and
  future noncash obligations) taking into account the Corporation's financial
  commitments, guarantees and other contingent liabilities.
  `(B) SUBMISSION- The report, including the results of the audit conducted
  pursuant to paragraph (6), shall be submitted to the President of the Senate
  and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall cause the same
  to be printed for the information of Congress, and to the President as soon
  as practicable after the first day of January each year but not later than
  6 months after the close of the 12-month period covered by the report.
  `(6) INDEPENDENT AUDITS- The financial statements of the Resolution Funding
  Corporation shall be audited annually by an independent certified public
  accountant in accordance with generally accepted government auditing
  standards.
  `(i) Termination of the Funding Corporation-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Funding Corporation shall be dissolved, as soon as
  practicable, after the maturity and full payment of all obligations issued
  by the Funding Corporation under this section.
  `(2) OVERSIGHT BOARD AUTHORITY TO CONCLUDE THE AFFAIRS OF THE FUNDING
  CORPORATION- Effective on the date of the dissolution of the Funding
  Corporation under paragraph (1), the Oversight Board may exercise on behalf
  of the Funding Corporation, any power of the Funding Corporation which
  the Oversight Board determines to be necessary to settle and conclude the
  affairs of the Funding Corporation.
  `(j) REGULATIONS- The Oversight Board may prescribe such regulations as
  may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, including
  regulations defining terms used in this section.
  `(k) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) INSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATION- The term `insured savings association'
  means a savings association as such term is defined by section 7(l) of
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(2) OVERSIGHT BOARD- The term `Oversight Board' means the Oversight
  Board of the Resolution Trust Corporation under section 21A, and after the
  termination of such Corporation, the term shall mean the Secretary of the
  Treasury, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the Attorney General.
  `(3) DIRECTORATE- The term `Directorate' means the Directorate established in
  the manner provided in subsection (c)(1) to manage the Funding Corporation.
  `(4) ISSUANCE COSTS- The term `issuance costs'--
  `(A) means issuance fees and commissions incurred by the Funding Corporation
  in connection with the issuance or servicing of any obligations of the
  Funding Corporation; and
  `(B) includes legal and accounting expenses, trustee and fiscal paying
  agent charges, costs incurred in connection with preparing and printing
  offering materials, and advertising expenses, to the extent that any such
  costs or expense is incurred by the Funding Corporation in connection with
  issuing any obligation.
  `(5) CUSTODIAN FEE- The term `custodian fee' means--
  `(A) any fee incurred by the Funding Corporation in connection with the
  transfer of any security to, or the maintenance of any security in, the
  segregated account established under subsection (g); and
  `(B) any other expense incurred by the Funding Corporation in connection
  with the establishment or maintenance of such account.'.
SEC. 503. FINANCING CORPORATION.
  Section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441) is amended--
  (1) by striking the term `insured institution' each place it appears and
  inserting `insured savings association';
  (2) by striking the term `institution' each place it appears and inserting
  `savings association';
  (3) by striking the term `Federal Home Loan Bank Board' and the term
  `Board' each place such terms appear and inserting `Chairman of the Office
  of Savings Associations;
  (4) in subsection (c)(2) by inserting `prior to the date of the enactment of
  the FIRRE Act and thereafter by the FSLIC Resolution Fund' before the period;
  (5) in subsection (c)(9) by striking out `or section 402(b) of the National
  Housing Act';
  (6) in subsection (e)(3)(A) by inserting `prior to the enactment of the
  FIRRE Act, and thereafter purchase capital certificates or capital stock
  issued by the FSLIC Resolution Fund' before the semicolon;
  (7) in subsection (e)--
  (A) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3) through
  (10) as paragraphs (2) through (9), respectively, and
  (B) in paragraph (6) as redesignated, by striking `the Federal Savings
  and Loan Insurance Corporation' and inserting `the FSLIC Resolution Fund'
  in lieu thereof;
  (8) by striking subsection (f) and inserting the following:
  `(f) SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR INTEREST PAYMENTS; FINANCING CORPORATION
  ASSESSMENT AUTHORITY- The Financing Corporation shall obtain funds for
  interest payments on obligations issued hereunder from the following sources:
  `(1) The Financing Corporation assessments which were assessed on insured
  institutions pursuant to this section as in effect prior to the date of
  enactment of the FIRRE Act;
  `(2) The Financing Corporation, with the approval of the Board of Directors
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, shall make assessments
  on each Savings Association Insurance Fund member in the same manner as
  assessments are made by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with
  respect to Savings Association Insurance Fund members under section 7
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The amount assessed hereunder and
  the amount assessed by the Funding Corporation under section 21B shall
  not exceed the amount authorized to be assessed pursuant to section 7 of
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and the Financing Corporation shall
  have first priority to make such assessments. All assessments made by the
  Financing Corporation under this section and by the Funding Corporation
  under section 21B shall be subtracted from the amounts authorized to be
  assessed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to section
  7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; and
  `(3) To the extent the funds available pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2)
  are insufficient to cover the amount of interest payments, and if the funds
  are not required by the Resolution Funding Corporation to provide funds
  for the Funding Corporation Principal Fund under section 21B, the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation shall transfer to the Financing Corporation
  from the proceeds of the FSLIC Resolution Fund (established under section
  11A of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act) the remaining amount of funds
  necessary for the Financing Corporation to make interest payments.';
  (9) in subsection (g)(1) by striking `National Housing Act,' and inserting
  `National Housing Act before the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act and after
  such date in capital certificates issued by the FSLIC Resolution Fund,';
  (10) in subsection (g), by inserting the following at the end of paragraph
  (2): `For purposes of the foregoing, the Financing Corporation shall be
  deemed to hold noninterest bearing instruments that it lends temporarily to
  primary United States Treasury dealers in order to enhance market liquidity
  and facilitate deliveries, provided that United States Treasury securities
  of equal or greater value have been delivered as collateral.';
  (11) in subsection (j), by striking subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1)
  and inserting the following:
  `(A) the maturity and full payment of all obligations issued by the
  Financing Corporation pursuant to this section; or'; and
  (12) in subsection (1)--
  (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1) INSURED SAVINGS ASSOCIATION- The term `insured savings association'
  means a savings association as defined by section 7(l) of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act.'; and
  (B) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph
  (2).
SEC. 504. MIXED OWNERSHIP GOVERNMENT CORPORATION.
  Section 9101(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new subparagraphs:
  `(L) the Resolution Funding Corporation.
  `(O) the Resolution Trust Corporation.'.
SEC. 505. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK RESERVES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 16(a) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
  U.S.C. 1436(a)) is amended by striking the first three sentences and
  inserting in lieu thereof: `Each Federal Home Loan Bank may carry to a
  reserve account from time-to-time such portion of its net earnings as
  may be determined by its board of directors. If the reserve accounts of a
  bank established pursuant to this section reach 100 percent of the paid-in
  capital of the bank but are subsequently reduced below such amount, such
  reserves shall be restored to 100 percent of the paid-in capital of the
  bank before any dividends are paid.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  on January 1, 1992.
TITLE VI--THRIFT ACQUISITION ENHANCEMENT PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. ACQUISITION OF THRIFTS BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES.
  Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843) is
  amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(i) ACQUISITION OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS- Beginning on the date which is
  two years after the date of the enactment of the FIRRE Act, the Board may
  approve an application by a bank holding company under subsection (c)(8) to
  acquire any savings association pursuant to the requirements and limitations
  of this section. The Board may immediately approve an application by a
  bank holding company under subsection (c)(8) (pursuant to the requirements
  and limitations of this section) to acquire a saving association that does
  not meet the capital standards prescribed by the Chairman of the Office of
  Savings Associations, or that, excluding goodwill, has less than 2 percent
  tier 1 capital. In approving an application by a bank holding company to
  acquire a savings association, the Board shall not impose restrictions
  on transactions between the savings association and its holding company
  affiliates, except as required under the provisions of sections 23A and
  23B of the Federal Reserve Act or other applicable statute. The Board shall
  modify any orders authorizing the acquisition of a savings association by
  a bank holding company in a manner consistent with the preceding sentence.'.
SEC. 602. INVESTMENTS BY SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES IN UNAFFILIATED
THRIFT INSTITUTIONS.
  Section 10(e)(1)(A)(iii) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended
  by section 301 of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
  `(iii) to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, or to retain more than 5
  percent of the voting shares of a savings association not a subsidiary,
  or of a savings and loan holding company not a subsidiary, or in the case
  of a multiple savings and loan holding company, to so acquire or retain
  more than 5 percent of the voting shares of any company not a subsidiary
  which is engaged in any business activity other than those specified in
  subsection (c)(2). For purposes of this subparagraph, a savings and loan
  holding company shall not be deemed to have acquired voting shares of a
  savings association if it controls such shares in a fiduciary capacity
  for a person not an affiliate as defined in subsection (a).'.
SEC. 603. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO THE BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT.
  Section (2)(j) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(j))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(j) INSURED INSTITUTION; SAVINGS ASSOCIATION- For purposes of this Act,
  the terms `insured institution' and `savings association' have the meaning
  given to the term `savings association' in section 10(a)(1)(A) of the Home
  Owners' Loan Act of 1933.'.
TITLE VII--FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM REFORMS
Subtitle A--Federal Home Loan Bank Act Amendments
SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422)
  is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following:
  `(1) The term `Agency' means the `Federal Home Loan Bank Agency' established
  under section 17.
  `(2)(A) The term `Federal Home Loan Bank' or `Bank' means a bank established
  under the authority of this Act.
  `(B) The term `Federal Home Loan Bank System' means the Federal Home Loan
  Banks and their joint offices, under the supervision of the Agency.';
  (2) in paragraph (4), by striking `(except when used in reference to the
  member of the board)'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(10) The term `savings association' has the same meaning as in section 2(c)
  of the Home Owners Loan Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1462(c)).'.
  (b) CHANGE IN TERMS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Federal Home Loan Bank Act is amended by striking
  `Federal Home Loan Bank Board', `Board', and `board' each place they appear
  and inserting `Federal Home Loan Bank Agency', `Agency', and `Agency',
  respectively.
  (2) EXCEPTIONS- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall not apply to
  sections 21, 21A, and 21B, of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
  (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 11(e)(2)(C) of the Federal Home Loan
  Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(e)(2)(C)) is amended by inserting `Federal Home
  Loan' before `Banks,'; and
  (2) The first sentence in the third paragraph of section 11(i) of such
  Act is amended by inserting `Federal' before `Home Loan Bank System'.
SEC. 702. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK AGENCY.
  Section 17 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1437) is amended
  to read as follows:
`SEC. 17. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK AGENCY.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- There is established as an independent agency in the
  executive branch the Federal Home Loan Bank Agency. The Agency shall
  supervise the Federal Home Loan Banks and shall promulgate and enforce
  such rules, regulations, and orders, as are necessary from time to time
  for carrying out the provisions of this Act and all other laws it is his
  duty to implement.
  `(b) FUNCTION- The function of the Agency shall be to ensure that the
  Federal Home Loan Banks carry out their housing finance mission, that the
  Federal Home Loan Banks remain adequately capitalized and able to raise
  funds in the capital markets, and that the Federal Home Loan Banks operate
  in a safe and sound manner.
  `(c) APPOINTMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Agency shall be under the direction of a Board of
  Directors consisting of a President and 2 other members, all of whom shall
  be citizens of the United States, shall be appointed by the President,
  by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall hold office
  for a term of 6 years. No member of the Board of Directors shall hold any
  other appointive office during his or her term as a Director. Not more
  than 2 members of the Board of Directors shall be members of the same
  political party.
  `(2) QUALIFICATIONS- The Board of Directors shall be appointed from among
  persons with extensive experience or training in housing finance and with
  a commitment to the provision of specialized housing credit.
  `(3) CONTINUED SERVICE UNTIL SUCCESSOR APPOINTED- Each member of the Board
  of Directors may continue to serve until a successor has been appointed
  and qualified.
  `(d) APPOINTMENT OF STAFF- The Agency may employ, direct, and fix the
  compensation of such employees, attorneys and agents as it deems necessary
  to carry out its duties, except that in no event shall the Agency delegate
  any function to any employee or administrative unit of any Federal Home Loan
  Bank. In directing and fixing such compensation, the Agency shall consult
  with and maintain comparability with the compensation at the other Federal
  bank regulatory agencies. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act,
  no officer, employee, or agent of the Banks shall be a Federal officer
  or employee under any definition of either term in section 2104, 2105,
  5331, 5541, 5561, 5701, 7103, 8101, 8311, 8331, or any other provision of
  title 5, United States Code. Any person appointed as agent of the Agency
  by the Agency shall be deemed an `employee of the Government' solely for
  the purpose of section 2671 of title 28, United States Code.
  `(e) SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL- The Agency may suspend or remove for cause
  a director, officer, employee, or agent of any Federal Home Loan Bank or
  administrative unit thereof. The cause of such suspension or removal shall
  be communicated in writing forthwith to such director, officer, employee,
  or agent and to such Bank or administrative unit.
  `(f) SALARIES AND EXPENSES- The salaries of the Board of Directors and
  other employees of the Agency and all other expenses thereof may be
  paid from assessments levied on the Federal Home Loan Banks pursuant to
  section 18 of this Act, and the funds derived from such assessments may be
  deposited by the Agency in the same manner as authorized under section 5240
  of the Revised Statutes and shall not be construed to be Government Funds
  or appropriated monies, or subject to apportionment for the purposes of
  chapter 15 of title 31 or any other authority. Such compensation shall be
  paid without regard to the provisions of other laws applicable to officers
  or employees of the United States, except that the President and other
  Directors shall be compensated as prescribed in sections 5314 and 5315 of
  title 5, United States Code.
  `(g) FINANCIAL INTEREST- It shall not be lawful for the President or the
  Directors of the Agency to have a financial interest, either directly or
  indirectly, in any member of a Federal Home Loan Bank.
  `(h) ANNUAL REPORT- The Agency shall make an annual report to the Congress.'.
SEC. 703. SHAREHOLDER ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The first sentence of section 4(a) of the Federal Home Loan
  Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)) is amended by striking `or savings bank,'
  and inserting `savings bank, any other insured financial institution
  (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), or
  any credit union whose accounts are insured by the National Credit Union
  Administration Board under the Federal Credit Union Act'.
  (b) QUALIFIED THRIFT LENDER- The last sentence of section 4(a) of the
  Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1424(a)) is amended to read as follows:
  `No insured financial institution that is not a member on January 1, 1989,
  shall become a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank if the insured financial
  institution is not a qualified thrift lender pursuant to section 10(e)
  or, in the judgment of the Agency, the insured financial institution's
  financial condition is such that advances may not safely be made to such
  institution, or the character of its management or its home-financing
  policy is inconsistent with sound and economical home financing or with
  the purposes of this Act.'.
  (c) REPEALER- Section 27 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1447)
  is repealed.
SEC. 704. CAPITAL STOCK.
  Section 6 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1426) is amended--
  (1) by striking subsections (a), (e), (f), and (g), and redesignating the
  remaining subsections as (a) through (h), respectively; and
  (2) by placing a period after `canceled' in the second sentence of
  redesignated subsection (e), and by striking `except that in the case of
  a voluntary withdrawal,' and inserting `Any'.
SEC. 705. ELECTION OF BANK DIRECTORS.
  Section 7 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1427) is amended--
  (1) by inserting after the last sentence of subsection (a) the following:
  `Two of the directors appointed by the Agency shall be selected based on
  their qualifications as consumer or moderate income community interest
  representatives.';
  (2) by inserting after the first sentence of subsection (b) the following:
  `No person who is an officer or director of a member that fails to meet
  its capital requirement as set by the appropriate Federal regulatory agency
  may seek, or hold, the office of director of a Federal Home Loan Bank.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(i) The directors of each Bank shall determine the terms and conditions
  under which the Bank may indemnify its directors, officers, employees,
  or agents.
SEC. 706. STUDIES OF VALUES.
  Section 8 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1428) is amended
  to read as follows:
`SEC. 8. STUDIES OF VALUES.
  `The banks or the Agency may make studies of trends of home and other
  property values, methods of appraisals, and other subjects such as they
  may deem useful for the general guidance of their policies and operations
  and those of the Bank members.'.
SEC. 707. ELIGIBILITY OF BORROWERS TO SECURE ADVANCES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 9 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1429)
  is amended by striking `or nonmember borrower' in the first sentence.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421
  et seq.) is amended--
  (1) in sections 2(5) and 4(b), by striking `or a nonmember borrower'
  wherever it appears;
  (2) by striking section 2(9);
  (3) in section 4(a), by striking `, or a nonmember borrower of,' wherever
  it appears;
  (4) in section 5, by striking `, or granted the privileges of nonmember
  borrowers,';
  (5) in section 6(i) (as redesignated by section 705 of this Act), by striking
  `, or deprive any nonmember borrower of the privilege of obtaining further
  advances,' in the first sentence;
  (6) in section 6(e) as redesignated by section 705, by striking `or deprive
  any nonmember borrower of the privilege of further advances,';
  (7) in sections 6(e) (as redesignated by section 705), 7(j), and 10(c),
  by striking `or nonmember borrower' wherever it appears;
  (8) in section 10(c), by striking `, or made to a nonmember borrower'
  in the second sentence; and
  (9) in sections 11(g) and 11(h), by striking `or nonmember borrowers'
  wherever it appears.
SEC. 708. FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK LENDING.
  Section 11(k) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431(k)) is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(k) The Federal Home Loan Banks are hereby authorized, as directed
  by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with the concurrence of
  the Agency, to make loans to such Corporation for the use of the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund, which loans shall be a direct liability of such
  Fund. Interest on such loans from the Federal Home Loan Banks shall not
  be less than their current marginal cost of funds, taking into account the
  maturities involved. Such loans shall be adequately secured as determined
  by the Agency.'.
SEC. 709. THRIFT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
  Section 8a of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1428a) is repealed.
SEC. 710. FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION INDUSTRY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE.
  Subsection (i) of section 21 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
  U.S.C. 1441) is repealed, and subsections (k) and (l) are redesignated as
  subsections (j) and (k), respectively.
SEC. 711. RATE OF INTEREST.
  Section 5B of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1425b) is repealed.
SEC. 712. ADVANCES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Subsection (a) of section 10 of the Federal Home Loan
  Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430(a)) is amended by striking everything after
  `members' to the end of the section and replacing it with the following:
  `upon collateral sufficient, in the judgment of such Bank, to fully secure
  advances obtained from the Bank under this section, or section 11(g) of
  this Act. All long term advances shall be made only for the purpose of
  providing funds for housing finance. A Bank, at the time of origination or
  renewal of a loan or advance, shall obtain and maintain a security interest
  in collateral eligible pursuant to one or more of the following categories:
  `(1) fully disbursed, whole first mortgages on improved residential property,
  not more than 90 days delinquent;
  `(2) securities issued, insured, or guaranteed by the United States
  Government or any agency thereof (including without limitation,
  mortgage-backed securities issued or guaranteed by the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation, the Federal National Mortgage Corporation, and the
  Government National Mortgage Association);
  `(3) deposits of a Federal Home Loan Bank; or
  `(4) other real-estate related collateral acceptable to the Bank if such
  collateral has a readily ascertainable value and that the Bank can perfect
  its interest in the collateral. The aggregate amount of outstanding advances
  secured by such other real-estate related collateral, to any one member,
  shall not exceed 30 percent of that member's capital.
Paragraphs (1) through (4) shall not affect the ability of any Federal Home
Loan Bank to take such steps as it deems necessary to protect its security
position as to outstanding advances, including but not limited to requiring
deposits of additional collateral security, whether or not such additional
security would be eligible to originate an advance.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Subsection (e) of section 10 of the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1430) is amended--
  (1) by striking `insured institution' and inserting `savings association';
  (2) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `(A)' and inserting `(i)',
  (B) by inserting `(A)' before `Except',
  (C) by striking `(B)' and inserting `(ii)',
  (D) by adding at the end the following:
  `(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), no member may receive any advances
  at any time that its actual thrift investment percentage is less than
  60 percent. A member who does not meet the requirement contained in the
  preceding sentence may nonetheless receive advances if and only if such
  member purchases and maintains stock in its Federal Home Loan Bank in the
  amount that would be required if at least 60 percent of its assets were in
  home mortgage loans. The determination regarding meeting the requirement
  of the first sentence of this subparagraph shall be made by the Agency
  and the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations or, in the event
  of a disagreement in any case, by the Secretary of the Treasury.';
  (3) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking `section 408(a)(1)(A) of the National
  Housing Act' and inserting `section 10(a)(1)(A) of the Homeowners' Loan
  Act of 1933';
  (4) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking `section 408(o) of the National Housing
  Act' and inserting `section 10(m) of the Homeowners' Loan Act of 1933'; and
  (5) by striking paragraph (3)(C) and inserting the following:
  `(C) ACTUAL THRIFT INVESTMENT PERCENTAGE- The term `actual thrift investment
  percentage' has the same meaning as in section 10(m) of the Home Owners'
  Act of 1933 and, in the case of a depository member that is not a `savings
  association' within the meaning of such section, shall be computed as if
  the term `savings association' includes such member.'.
SEC. 713. EXAMINATIONS.
  Section 20 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1440) is amended
  by adding at the end the following: `In addition to such examinations, the
  Comptroller General shall, from time to time, audit or examine the Agency,
  the Banks, and any administrative unit thereof to determine the extent to
  which the Agency and the Banks are fairly and effectively fulfilling the
  purposes of this Act.'.
SEC. 714. CONFORMING FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ACT AMENDMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Home Loan Bank Act is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (a) of section 18;
  (2) in section 18(c)(5) (12 U.S.C. 1438(c)(5)), by striking all after
  `receipts of the board' and inserting a period;
  (3) in subsection (b) of section 18--
  (A) by striking `its' the first place it appears and inserting `his or her';
  (B) by striking `its' the second place it appears and inserting `the
  Agency's';
  (C) by striking `All expenses' and inserting `Any expenses'; and
  (D) by striking `shall be paid' and inserting `may be paid';
  (4) in section 18(c)(6), by striking all after `budget program' up to `,
  and (B)';
  (5) by striking the last sentence of section 19; and
  (6) in section 21(b)(5), by striking `of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board'.
  (b) OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 101 of title I of the Act of
  June 16, 1943 (12 U.S.C. 1439a) is amended by striking everything after
  `Federal Home Loan Bank Administration' and inserting a period.
  (2) Section 111 of title I of Public Law 93-495 (12 U.S.C. 250) is amended
  by striking `the Federal Home Loan Bank Board'.
SEC. 715. LIQUIDITY.
  Section 5A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1425a) is repealed.
SEC. 716. TRANSFERS.
  The Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations and the Federal Home
  Loan Bank Agency shall jointly provide for--
  (1) the transfer of employees of the Federal Home Loan Bank performing
  supervisory functions to the Office of Savings Associations; and
  (2) such incidental transfers as the Chairman and the Agency may agree to.
Subtitle B--Conforming Amendments
SEC. 721. REPEAL OF LIMITATION OF OBLIGATION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
  Section 7 of the First Deficiency Appropriation Act of 1936 (15 U.S.C. 712a)
  is amended by deleting from subsection (b) the following enumerated entities:
  `1. Federal Home Loan Bank System;';
  `2. Home Owners' Loan Corporation;'; and
  `11. Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation;'.
SEC. 722. AMENDMENT OF ADDITIONAL POWERS OF CHAIRMAN.
  (a) Subsection (c) of section 502 of the Housing Act of 1948, as amended
  (12 U.S.C. 1701c(b)), is amended by striking out the terms `Federal Home
  Loan Bank Board (which term as used in this section shall also include
  and refer to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, and
  the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board)' and inserting in lieu
  thereof the following: `Chairman, Office of Savings Associations'; and
  (b) Subsection (1) of subsection (c) of such section 502 is amended by
  inserting between the term `of any' and `State or' the following term:
  `Federal'.
SEC. 723. AMENDMENT OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE.
  (a) EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE- (1) Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code
  (5 U.S.C. 5314) is amended by striking--
`Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.';
and inserting:
`Chairman, Office of Savings Associations.
`President, Federal Home Loan Bank Agency.'.
  (2) Section 5315 of such title is amended by striking--
`Members, Federal Home Loan Bank Board.';
and inserting:
`Directors, Federal Home Loan Bank Agency.'.
  (b) Section 5373 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting at
  subparagraph (2), between the terms, `481,' and `and' the following terms:
  `1437, 1439,'.
SEC. 724. AMENDMENT OF TITLE 31, UNITED STATES CODE.
  (a)(1) Subchapter I of chapter 3 of subtitle I of title 31, United States
  Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
` 310. Office of Savings Associations
  `The Office of Savings Associations, established under section 4 of the
  Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 is subject to the general oversight of the
  Secretary of the Treasury.'.
  (2) The table of sections for chapter 3 of subtitle I of title 31, United
  States Code, is amended by inserting at the end of the items for subchapter
  I the following:
`310. Office of Savings Associations.'.
  (b) Subsection (c) of section 321 of title 31, United States Code, is
  amended by--
  (1) striking `and' after the semicolon in paragraph (1);
  (2) striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(3) of the Chairman, Office of Savings Associations.'.
  (c) Subsection (a) of section 714 of title 31, United States Code, is
  amended by--
  (1) striking `and' before `the Office'; and
  (2) inserting before the period the following: `, and the Office of the
  Chairman, Office of Savings Associations'.
  (d) Section 9101(3) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking
  subparagraph (E).
SEC. 725. AMENDMENT OF BALANCED BUDGET AND EMERGENCY DEFICIT CONTROL ACT
PROVISIONS.
  (a) Subsection (g)(1)(A) of section 255 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
  Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 905) is amended by striking `Federal
  Home Loan Bank Board;' and `Federal Home Loan Bank Board, Federal Savings
  and Loan Insurance Corporation;' and inserting `Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation, including the Bank Insurance Fund, the Saving Association
  Insurance Fund, and the FSLIC Resolution Fund, Chairman of the Office of
  Savings Associations and Resolution Trust Corporation;'.
  (b) Subsection (b)(4) of section 256 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
  Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 906) is amended by--
  (1) striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following:
  `(C) Office of Savings Associations and Resolution Trust Corporation.';
  (2) striking subparagraph (D); and
  (3) redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G), as subparagraphs (D),
  (E), and (F), respectively.
  (c) Subsection (g)(2) of section 255 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
  Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended by--
  (1) striking `Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Fund
  (02-4037-0-3-372)'; and
  (2) inserting the following item relating to the Overseas Private Investment
  Corporation the following:
  `Payments to the Resolution Funding Corporation;'.
TITLE VIII--BANK CONSERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS
SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 202 of the Act of March 9, 1933 (48 Stat. 2, 12 U.S.C. 202),
  (the `Bank Conservation Act'), is amended by inserting the following:
  `or any other financial institution chartered or licensed under Federal
  law and subject to the supervision of the Comptroller of the Currency'
  after `national banking association'.
SEC. 802. APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR.
  Section 203 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 203) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 203. APPOINTMENT OF CONSERVATOR.
  `(a) APPOINTMENT- The Comptroller of the Currency may, without notice or
  prior hearing, appoint a conservator, which may be the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation, to take possession and control of a bank whenever
  the Comptroller determines that one or more of the following circumstances
  exists--
  `(1) the conditions for appointment of a receiver for the bank are present;
  `(2)(A)(i) the bank is not likely to be able to meet the demands of its
  depositors or pay its obligations in the normal course of business, and
  `(ii) there is no reasonable prospect that the bank will be able to meet
  such demands or pay such obligations without Federal assistance; or
  `(B)(i) the bank has incurred or is likely to incur losses that will
  deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and
  `(ii) there is no reasonable prospect for the replenishment of the capital
  of the bank without Federal assistance;
  `(3) there is a violation or violations of laws, rules, or regulations,
  or any unsafe or unsound practice or condition which is likely to cause
  insolvency or substantial dissipation of assets or earnings, or is likely
  to weaken the condition of the bank or otherwise seriously prejudice the
  interests of its depositors;
  `(4) the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business;
  `(5) the bank's board of directors consists of fewer than 5 members;
  `(6) there is a willful or continuing violation of an order enforceable
  against the bank under section 8(i) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or
  `(7) there is concealment of books, papers, records, or assets of the bank,
  or refusal to submit books, papers, records, or affairs of the bank for
  inspection to any examiner or to any lawful agent of the Comptroller.
  `(b) JUDICIAL REVIEW-
  `(1) Not later than 20 days after the initial appointment of a conservator
  pursuant to this section, the bank may bring an action in the United
  States district court for the judicial district in which the home office
  of such bank is located, or in the United States District Court for the
  District of Columbia, for an order requiring the Comptroller to terminate
  the appointment of the conservator, and the court, upon the merits, shall
  dismiss such action or shall direct the Comptroller to terminate the
  appointment of such conservator. The Comptroller's decision to appoint a
  conservator pursuant to this provision shall be set aside only if the court
  finds that such decision was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion,
  or otherwise not in accordance with law.
  `(2) The Comptroller may request a stay for a period of up to 90 days after
  the appointment of the conservator as to any legal action or proceeding to
  which the conservator or the bank is or may become a party. Upon petition,
  the court shall grant such stay as to all parties.
  `(3) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no court may
  take any action regarding the removal of a conservator, or restrain,
  or affect the exercise of powers or functions of a conservator. A court,
  upon application by the Comptroller, shall have jurisdiction to enforce
  an order of the Comptroller relating to--
  `(A) the conservatorship and the bank in conservatorship, or
  `(B) restraining or affecting the exercise of powers or functions of
  a conservator.
  `(c) ADDITIONAL GROUNDS FOR APPOINTMENT- In addition to the foregoing
  provisions, the Comptroller may appoint a conservator for a bank in
  the event--
  `(1) the bank, by an affirmative vote of a majority of its board of
  directors or by an affirmative vote of a majority of its shareholders,
  consents to such appointment, or
  `(2) the bank's status as an insured bank is terminated by the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The appointment of a conservator pursuant to this subsection shall not be
subject to review.
  `(d) EXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller shall have exclusive power and jurisdiction
  to appoint a conservator for a bank. Whenever the Comptroller appoints a
  conservator for any bank, he may appoint the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation conservator for such bank. Except as provided in paragraph
  (2), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as such conservator, shall
  have all the powers granted under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and
  (when not inconsistent therewith) any other rights, powers, and privileges
  possessed by conservators or receivers of banks under this Act and any
  other provision of law. The Comptroller may also appoint another person
  as conservator, who shall be subject to the provisions of this Act.
  `(2) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY- Unless permitted under section 205(a)(2),
  a conservator appointed by the Comptroller under this Act shall not be
  appointed for the purpose of liquidating or winding up the affairs of
  the bank.
  `(e) REPLACEMENT OF CONSERVATOR- The Comptroller may, without notice or
  hearing, replace a conservator with another conservator. Such replacement
  shall not affect the bank's right under subsection (b) to obtain judicial
  review of the Comptroller's original decision to appoint a conservator.'.
SEC. 803. EXAMINATIONS.
  Section 204 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 204) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 204. EXAMINATIONS.
  `The Comptroller of the Currency, in consultation with the Board of Directors
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (when the Corporation is
  appointed conservator), is authorized to examine and supervise the bank
  in conservatorship as long as the bank continues operations as an ongoing
  national bank. The Comptroller may use reports and other information
  provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for this purpose.'.
SEC. 804. TERMINATION OF CONSERVATORSHIP.
  Section 205 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 205) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 205. TERMINATION OF CONSERVATORSHIP.
  `(a) GENERAL RULE- At any time the Comptroller becomes satisfied that it may
  safely be done and that it would be in the public interest, the Comptroller,
  with the agreement of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation (when the Corporation is appointed conservator), may--
  `(1) terminate the conservatorship and permit the involved bank to resume
  the transaction of its business subject to such terms, conditions, and
  limitations as the Comptroller may prescribe; or
  `(2) terminate the conservatorship upon a sale, merger, consolidation,
  purchase and assumption, change in control, or voluntary liquidation of
  the involved bank.
  `(b) OTHER GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION- The Comptroller also may terminate
  the conservatorship upon a declaration that the bank is insolvent and upon
  the appointment of a receiver pursuant to section 1 of the Act of June 30,
  1876 (12 U.S.C. 191).
  `(c) ENFORCEMENT UNDER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE ACT- Such terms, conditions,
  and limitations as may be prescribed under subsection (a)(1) shall be
  enforceable under the provisions of section 8(i) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act, to the same extent as an order issued pursuant to section
  8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, which has become final. The bank
  may bring an action in the United States district court for the judicial
  district in which the home office of such bank is located or in the United
  States District Court for the District of Columbia for an order requiring
  the Comptroller to terminate the order. An action for judicial review of
  the terms, conditions, and limitations may not be commenced later than
  20 days from the date of the termination of the conservatorship or the
  imposition of the order, whichever is later.
  `(d)(1) ACTION UPON TERMINATION- Upon termination of the conservatorship
  under subsection (a)(2), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as
  conservator, or when another person is appointed conservator, such other
  person, shall proceed to conclude the affairs of the conservatorship in
  accordance with paragraph (2).
  `(2)(A) Within 180 days of the sale, merger, consolidation, purchase and
  assumption, change in control, or voluntary liquidation, the conservator
  shall deposit all net proceeds received from the transaction, less any
  expenses of the conservatorship that are outstanding, with the United
  States district court for the judicial district in which the home office
  of such bank is located and shall cause notice to be published for three
  consecutive months and notify by mail all known and remaining creditors
  and shareholders. Within 60 days thereafter, any depositor, creditor, or
  other claimant of the bank, or any shareholder of the bank may bring an
  action in interpleader in that court for distribution of the proceeds. The
  district court shall disseminate such funds in an equitable manner. If
  no such action is instituted within one year after the date the funds are
  deposited with the district court, title to such net proceeds shall revert
  to the United States and the district court shall remit the funds to the
  Treasury of the United States.
  `(B) The conservator shall be deemed to have discharged all responsibility
  of the conservatorship upon the deposit of the proceeds with the district
  court and fulfillment of the required notifications.'.
SEC. 805. CONSERVATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
  Section 206 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 206) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 206. CONSERVATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
  `(a) GENERAL POWERS- A conservator shall have all the powers of the
  shareholders, directors, and officers of the bank and shall be authorized
  to operate the bank in its own name unless the Comptroller in the order
  of appointment limits the authority of the conservator.
  `(b) SUBJECT TO RULES OF COMPTROLLER- The conservator shall be subject
  to such rules, regulations, and orders as the Comptroller from time to
  time deems appropriate; and, except as otherwise specifically provided in
  such rules, regulations, or orders or in section 209 of this Act, shall be
  vested with or subject to the same rights, privileges, duties, restrictions,
  penalties, conditions, and limitations that apply to directors, officers,
  or employees of a national bank.
  `(c) PAYMENT OF DEPOSITORS AND CREDITORS- The Comptroller may require the
  conservator to set aside and make available for withdrawal by depositors and
  payment to other creditors such amounts as in the opinion of the Comptroller
  may safely be used for this purpose. All depositors and creditors who are
  similarly situated shall be treated in the same manner.
  `(d) COMPENSATION OF CONSERVATOR AND EMPLOYEES- The conservator and
  professional employees appointed to represent or assist the conservator
  shall not be paid amounts greater than are payable to employees of the
  Federal Government for similar services, except that the Comptroller of
  the Currency may authorize payment at higher rates (but not in excess of
  rates prevalent in the private sector), if the Comptroller determines that
  payment of such higher rates is necessary in order to recruit and retain
  competent personnel.
  `(e) EXPENSES- All expenses of any such conservatorship shall be paid by
  the bank and shall be a lien upon the bank which shall be prior to any
  other lien.'.
SEC. 806. LIABILITY PROTECTION.
SEC. 806. LIABILITY PROTECTION.
  Section 209 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 209) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 209. LIABILITY PROTECTION.
  `(a) FEDERAL AGENCY AND EMPLOYEES- In any case in which the conservator is a
  Federal agency or an employee of the Government, the provisions of chapters
  161 and 171 of title 28, United States Code, shall apply with respect to
  such conservator's liability for acts or omissions performed pursuant to
  and in the course of the duties and responsibilities of the conservatorship.
  `(b) Other Conservators-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In any case where the conservator is not a conservator
  described in subsection (a), the conservator shall not be liable for damages
  in tort or otherwise for acts or omissions performed pursuant to and in the
  course of the duties and responsibilities of the conservatorship, unless
  such acts or omissions constitute bad faith or are grossly negligent,
  as determined by a court.
  `(2) INDEMNIFICATION- The Comptroller shall have authority to indemnify
  the conservator on such terms as the Comptroller deems proper.'.
SEC. 807. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
  Section 211 of the Bank Conservation Act (12 U.S.C. 211) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 211. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
  `The Comptroller of the Currency is authorized and directed to prescribe
  such rules and regulations as the Comptroller may deem necessary to carry out
  the provisions of this Act. In any case where the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation is the conservator, any rules or regulations prescribed by the
  Comptroller shall be consistent with the rules and regulations issued by
  the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act.'.
SEC. 808. REPEALS.
  Sections 207 and 208 of the Bank Conservation Act (48 Stat. 3, 12 U.S.C. 207
  and 208) are hereby repealed.
SEC. 809. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
  Section 5373(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
  paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
   `(2) sections 203, 248, 481 and 1819 of title 12;'.
TITLE IX--ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY IMPROVEMENTS
SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Enforcement Authority Improvements Act
  of 1989'.
Subtitle A--Regulation of Financial Institutions
SEC. 911. CHANGE IN TERMINOLOGY.
  (a) INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY- Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended by striking--
  (1) `director, officer, employee, agent, or other person participating in
  the conduct of the affairs of such bank';
  (2) `director, officer, employee, agent, or other person participating in
  the conduct of the affairs of such a bank';
  (3) `director, officer or other person';
  (4) `director, officer, or other person';
  (5) `director or officer or other person';
  (6) `director, officer, employee, agent or other person';
  (7) `director, officer, employee, agent, or other person';
  (8) `director or officer of an insured bank, or other person participating
  in the conduct of the affairs of such bank';
  (9) `officer, director, employee, agent, or other person participating in
  the conduct of the affairs of such a bank';
  (10) `director or officer thereof or other person participating in the
  conduct of its affairs'; and
  (11) `director or officer or other person participating in the conduct of
  its affairs';
each place they appear and inserting `institution-related party'.
  (b) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION- Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
  (12 U.S.C. 1818) (except subsections (b)(3), (b)(6), (m), (o), (r), and
  (s)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `bank' each place it appears following `the', `such',
  `any', or `such a' and each place it appears immediately preceded by a
  comma and inserting `financial institution';
  (2) by striking `the bank's' each place it appears and inserting `the
  financial institution's';
  (3) by striking `the banks' ' each place it appears and inserting `the
  financial institutions';
  (4) by striking `Federal savings bank' and inserting `Federal savings
  association';
  (5) in subsection (g)(1), by striking `bank affairs' and inserting `affairs
  of any financial institution'; and
  (6) in subsection (q), by striking `or banks'.
  (c) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 8(m)- Section 8(m) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(m)) is amended by striking `State bank' and `No bank'
  and inserting `State financial institution' and `No financial institution',
  respectively.
SEC. 912. PERIODS APPLICABLE TO INSURANCE TERMINATION.
  Section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(a))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `one hundred and twenty days' and inserting `60 days'; and
  (2) by striking `shall continue for a period of two years' and inserting
  `shall continue for a period of not less than 6 months and not more than
  2 years, as determined in the discretion of the Board of Directors'.
SEC. 913. SUSPENSION OF INSURANCE.
  Section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818)
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
  `(2) SUSPENSION OF INSURANCE-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- In addition to the administrative proceedings described
  in paragraph (1), but subject to subparagraph (B), whenever the Board of
  Directors, after consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency,
  finds that an insured financial institution has no tangible capital under
  the capital guidelines or regulations of the appropriate Federal banking
  agency, the Corporation may issue a temporary order suspending deposit
  insurance on all deposits received by the institution.
  `(B) SPECIAL RULE FOR CERTAIN SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS- (i) In determining the
  tangible capital of a savings association for purposes of this paragraph,
  the Board of Directors shall include goodwill to the extent it is considered
  a component of capital under section 5(t) of the Home Owners' Loan Act. Any
  savings association which would be subject to a suspension order under
  subparagraph (A) but for the operation of this subparagraph, shall be
  considered by the Corporation to be a `special supervisory association'.
  `(ii) The Corporation may issue a temporary order suspending deposit
  insurance on all deposits received by a special supervisory association
  whenever the Board of Directors determines (on or after the date of
  enactment of the FIRRE Act) that--
  `(I) the capital of such association, as computed utilizing applicable
  accounting standards, has suffered a material decline;
  `(II) that such association (or its directors or officers) is engaging in
  an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting the business of the association;
  `(III) that such association is in an unsafe or unsound condition to
  continue operating as an insured association; or
  `(IV) that such association (or its directors or officers) has violated
  any applicable law, rule, regulation, or order, or any condition imposed
  in writing by a Federal banking agency, or any written agreement including
  a capital improvement plan entered into with any Federal banking agency,
  or that the association has failed to enter into a capital improvement plan
  which is acceptable to the Corporation within 3 months after the date of
  enactment of the FIRRE Act.
Nothing in this paragraph limits the right of the Corporation or the
Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations to enforce a contractual
provision which authorizes the Corporation or the Chairman of the Office
of Savings Associations, as a successor to the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, to require a
savings association to write down or amortize goodwill at a faster rate than
otherwise required under this Act or under applicable accounting standards.
  `(C) EFFECTIVENESS OF ORDER- A temporary order suspending deposit insurance
  shall become effective not earlier than 10 days from the date of service
  upon the institution. Such temporary order shall remain effective and
  enforceable--
  `(i) pending completion of the administrative proceedings, or
  `(ii) until the Corporation shall dismiss such administrative proceedings,
unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a court in proceedings authorized
under subparagraph (D).
  `(D) APPEAL- Within 10 days after a temporary order has been served upon
  the institution under this paragraph, the institution may apply to the
  United States District Court for the District of Columbia, or the United
  States district court for the judicial district in which the home office
  of the institution is located, for an injunction setting aside, limiting,
  or suspending the enforcement, operation, or effectiveness of such order,
  and such court shall have jurisdiction to issue such injunction. The court
  shall issue an injunction preventing enforcement of the temporary order
  issued under this paragraph only upon a finding that issuance of such
  order by the appropriate Federal banking agency was arbitrary, capricious,
  an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.
  `(E) CONTINUED INSURANCE FOR CERTAIN DEPOSITS- The insured deposits of
  each depositor in such financial institution on the effective date of the
  order issued under this paragraph, less all subsequent withdrawals from
  any deposits of such depositor, shall continue to be insured, subject to
  the administrative proceedings otherwise provided in this section.
  `(F) NOTICE- The Corporation may publish notice of any order issued
  under this paragraph and the financial institution shall give notice of
  such order to each of its depositors in such manner and at such times
  as the Corporation finds necessary and orders for the protection of
  depositors. If the Corporation determines that the financial institution
  has not substantially complied with the required notice to depositors,
  the Corporation may provide such notice.
  `(G) EXAMINATIONS OF SPECIAL SUPERVISORY ASSOCIATIONS- The Corporation
  shall make special examinations of all special supervisory associations
  within 3 months after the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, and on a
  quarterly basis thereafter.
  `(H) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO RECEIVE NOTICE- The Corporation shall provide,
  by regulation that the deposits of any depositor who establishes that he or
  she did not receive, in the ordinary course of business, knowledge of the
  suspension of insurance under this paragraph shall remain insured until
  he or she received actual knowledge, and additions to deposits remain
  insured where a depositor establishes that an automatic deposit addition
  could not be stopped in a timely manner.'.
SEC. 914. RESTITUTION, REIMBURSEMENT, AND OTHER REMEDIES.
  Section 8(b)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(b)(1))
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(A)' after `(1)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following subparagraph:
  `(B) The authority to issue an order under subparagraph (A) includes the
  authority to require an insured financial institution or institution-related
  party to--
  `(i) make restitution or provide reimbursement or indemnification;
  `(ii) provide a guarantee against loss;
  `(iii) rescind agreements or contracts;
  `(iv) dispose of any loan or asset involved; or
  `(v) take such other action as the appropriate Federal banking agency
  determines to be appropriate.
Such order may place limitations on the activities or functions of the
financial institution or any institution-related party necessary to correct
the conditions resulting from any such violation or practice and may prohibit
or restrict the growth of assets of the financial institution.'.
SEC. 915. APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 8.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1818(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (3)--
  (A) by striking `Nothing' in the second sentence and inserting `Except as
  provided in subsection (b)(6) of this section, nothing'; and
  (B) by striking `(f) and (h) through (n)' and inserting `(y)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(6) APPLICABILITY TO SAVINGS AND LOAN HOLDING COMPANIES- This subsection
  and subsections (c) through (y) of this section shall apply to--
  `(A) any savings and loan holding company;
  `(B) any subsidiary (other than a bank or subsidiary of that bank) of a
  savings and loan holding company; and
  `(C) any subsidiary of a savings association;
in the same manner as they apply to a savings association.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 8(b)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(b)(4)) is amended by striking `and (n)' and inserting `,
  (n), and (s)'.
SEC. 916. TEMPORARY CEASE AND DESIST ORDER.
  Section 8(c)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(c)(1))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `substantial' and `seriously'; and
  (2) by inserting the following sentence after the first sentence: `Such
  order may place limitations on the activities or functions of the financial
  institution or any institution-related party, including prohibitions or
  restrictions on the growth of assets of the institution'.
SEC. 917. TEMPORARY CEASE AND DESIST ORDER RELATING TO BOOKS AND RECORDS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 8(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1818(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(3) ORDERS RELATING TO BOOKS AND RECORDS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Whenever the appropriate Federal banking agency determines
  that an insured financial institution's books and records are so incomplete
  or inaccurate that the appropriate Federal banking agency is unable, through
  the normal supervisory process, to determine the financial condition of that
  insured financial institution or the details or purpose of any transaction
  or transactions that may have an adverse effect on the financial condition
  of that insured financial institution, the agency may issue a temporary
  order requiring cessation of any activities the agency deems appropriate,
  including prohibitions or restrictions on the growth of assets of the
  institution, or affirmative action to restore such books and records to an
  accurate state, until completion of proceedings conducted under paragraph
  (1) of subsection (b) of this section.
  `(B) EFFECTIVENESS OF ORDER- Such order shall become effective upon
  service. Such order shall remain effective and enforceable--
  `(i) pending completion of the administrative proceeding initiated under
  such notice; or
  `(ii) until the agency determines by examination or otherwise that the
  financial institution's books and records are accurate and capable of
  reflecting the financial condition of the financial institution;
unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a court in proceedings authorized
by paragraph (2) of this subsection.'.
  (b) STANDARD FOR REVIEW- Section 8(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `The court shall issue an injunction preventing enforcement of the temporary
  order issued under this subsection only upon a finding that issuance of such
  order by the appropriate Federal banking agency was arbitrary, capricious,
  an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.'.
SEC. 918. REMOVAL ORDERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 8(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1818(e)) is amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting
  the following:
  `(1) REMOVAL ORDERS- Whenever the appropriate Federal banking agency
  determines that--
  `(A) any institution-related party, directly or indirectly, has--
  `(i) violated any law, rule, regulation, written agreement entered into
  with the appropriate Federal banking agency, or order which has become final,
  `(ii) engaged or participated in any unsafe or unsound practice in connection
  with any insured financial institution or business institution, or
  `(iii) committed or engaged in any act, omission, or practice which
  constitutes a breach of his fiduciary duty;
  `(B) such insured financial institution or business institution has suffered
  or will probably suffer financial loss or other damage, the interests of
  its depositors have been or could be prejudiced by reason of such violation,
  practice, or breach, or the institution-related party has received financial
  gain by reason of such violation, practice, or breach; and
  `(C) such violation, practice, or breach involves personal dishonesty
  on the part of such institution-related party or demonstrates willful or
  continuing disregard for the safety or soundness of such insured financial
  institution or business institution,
the agency may serve upon such institution-related party a written notice of
its intention to remove such party from office or to prohibit his further
participation in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of any insured
financial institution.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 8(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(f)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `(e)(4)' and inserting `(e)(3)';
  (2) by striking `(e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3)' and inserting `(e)(1) or
  (e)(2)'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following: `The court shall issue an injunction
  preventing enforcement of the temporary order issued under this subsection
  (e)(1) or (e)(2) only upon a finding that issuance of such order by the
  appropriate Federal banking agency was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of
  discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.'.
SEC. 919. TEMPORARY SUSPENSION ORDERS.
  Section 8(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e))
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (6) as paragraphs (2) through
  (5), respectively; and
  (2) by amending paragraph (3), as redesignated, to read as follows:
  `(3) TEMPORARY SUSPENSION ORDERS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- With respect to any institution-related party referred to
  in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, the appropriate Federal banking
  agency may, if it deems it necessary for the protection of the financial
  institution or the interests of its depositors, by written order to such
  effect served upon such party, suspend such party from office or prohibit
  such party from further participation in any manner in the conduct of the
  affairs of the financial institution.
  `(B) EFFECTIVENESS OF ORDER- Such suspension or prohibition shall become
  effective upon service of such order on the institution-related party. Such
  order shall remain in effect pending the completion of the administrative
  proceedings pursuant to the notice served under paragraph (1) or (2)
  of this subsection and until--
  `(i) such time as the agency shall dismiss the charges specified in such
  notice, or
  `(ii) if an order of removal or prohibition is issued against such party,
  the effective date of any such order,
unless stayed by a court in proceedings authorized by subsection (f) of
this section. Copies of any order issued pursuant to this paragraph shall
also be served upon any financial institution where the party involved is
presently associated.'.
SEC. 920. EFFECT OF SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL.
  Section 8(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e))
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(6) EFFECT OF SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL ORDER- Any person who is subject to
  a removal, suspension, or prohibition order pursuant to this subsection
  or subsection (g) shall also be removed, suspended, or prohibited from
  participation in the conduct of the affairs of--
  `(A) any insured financial institution,
  `(B) any bank holding company or subsidiary thereof,
  `(C) any organization organized and operated under section 25(a) of the
  Federal Reserve Act or operating under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act,
  `(D) any subsidiary of any insured financial institution,
  `(E) any savings and loan holding company or subsidiary thereof;
  `(F) any depository institution the accounts of which are insured by the
  National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, and
  `(G) any institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971,
unless the party involved has received the prior written approval of the
appropriate Federal regulatory agency that issued such order.'.
SEC. 921. CIVIL PENALTIES FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.
  Section 8(i)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2))
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (i) through (vii) as subparagraphs (A)
  through (G), respectively; and
  (2) by striking subparagraph (A), as redesignated, and inserting the
  following:
  `(A) Any insured financial institution or any institution-related party
  which has--
  `(i) violated any law or regulation relating to financial institutions,
  any condition imposed in writing by the appropriate Federal banking agency
  in connection with the granting of an application or other request by the
  financial institution or institution-related party, or the terms of any
  order which has become final under subsection (b), (c), (e), (g), or (s)
  of this section; or
  `(ii) breached any fiduciary duty or engaged in any unsafe or unsound
  practice where such breach or practice has resulted in a loss to the
  financial institution or pecuniary gain to the institution-related party;
shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day during which
such violation, breach, or practice continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
for a violation, breach, or practice made with reckless disregard for the
safety or soundness of the financial institution, the appropriate Federal
banking agency may, in its discretion, assess a penalty of not more than
$1,000,000 per day for each day during which such violation, breach, or
practice continues.'.
SEC. 922. CRIMINAL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION ORDERS.
  Section 8(j) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(j))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(j) PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL ORDER- Any
  institution-related party against whom there is any outstanding and effective
  order served upon such person under paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection
  (e) or under subsection (g) who, directly or indirectly, without the prior
  written approval of the appropriate Federal regulatory agency--
  `(1) participates in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of--
  `(A) any insured financial institution,
  `(B) any bank holding company or subsidiary thereof,
  `(C) any organization organized and operated under section 25(a) of the
  Federal Reserve Act or operating under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act,
  `(D) any subsidiary of any insured financial institution,
  `(E) any savings and loan holding company or subsidiary thereof,
  `(F) any depository institution whose accounts are insured by the National
  Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, or
  `(G) any institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971;
  `(2) solicits or procures, or transfers or attempts to transfer, or votes
  or attempts to vote any proxies, consents, or authorization in respect to
  any voting rights in an institution described in paragraph (1); or
  `(3) votes for a director, or serves or acts as an institution-related
  party for an institution described in paragraph (1),
shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 for each day the violation continues
or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both.'.
SEC. 923. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 8(k) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(k))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(k) DEFINITIONS- For the purpose of this section:
  `(1) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL REGULATORY AGENCY- The term `appropriate Federal
  regulatory agency' means--
  `(A) the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined in subsection (q)
  of section 3;
  `(B) the National Credit Union Administration Board in the case of a
  depository institution the accounts of which are insured by the National
  Credit Union Share Insurance Fund; and
  `(C) the Farm Credit Administration in the case of an institution chartered
  under the Farm Credit Act of 1971.
  `(2) ORDER WHICH HAS BECOME FINAL- The term `order which has become final'
  means an order issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory agency--
  `(A) with the consent of the financial institution or the institution-related
  party concerned; or
  `(B) which is not subject to further administrative review.
  `(3) CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER- The term `controlling shareholder' means a
  person that directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one
  or more persons, owns or controls an insured financial institution. Shares
  owned or controlled by a member of an individual's immediate family are
  considered to be held by the individual.
  `(4) ADDITIONAL TERMS- Each appropriate Federal banking agency is authorized
  to promulgate regulations to define any term not otherwise defined in
  this section.'.
SEC. 924. EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION.
  Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(t) EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- A federally insured financial institution or a financial
  institution holding company may not discharge or otherwise discriminate
  against any officer, director, or employee with respect to compensation,
  terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because the officer, director,
  or employee (or any person acting pursuant to the request of such individual)
  provided information to any financial institution regulatory authority or
  to the Department of Justice regarding a possible violation of any law or
  regulation by the financial institution or any institution-related party.
  `(2) CIVIL ACTION- Any employee or former employee who believes he or she
  has been discharged or discriminated against in violation of paragraph (1)
  may file a civil action in Federal district court within 2 years from the
  date of such discharge or discrimination.
  `(3) REMEDIES- If the district court determines that a violation of
  paragraph (1) has occurred, it may order the financial institution which
  committed the violation to reinstate the employee to his former position,
  to pay compensatory damages, or to take other appropriate action to remedy
  any past discrimination.
  `(4) EXCEPTION- The protections of this subsection do not apply to
  any employee who deliberately causes the alleged violation of law or
  regulation.'.
SEC. 925. COORDINATION WITH CHAIRMAN OF THE OFFICE OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS.
  Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(u) COORDINATION WITH CHAIRMAN OF THE OFFICE OF SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS-
  The Corporation, based on an examination of a savings association by the
  Corporation or by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations, may
  recommend that the Chairman take any enforcement action authorized under this
  section with respect to any savings association. If the Chairman fails to
  take the recommended action or to provide an acceptable plan for addressing
  the concerns of the Corporation as set forth in its recommendation within 60
  days of receipt of the formal recommendation from the Corporation, the Board
  of Directors may take such action if it determines that the association
  is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue as an insured financial
  institution or that failure to take the recommended action will result in
  continuance of unsafe or unsound practices in conducting the business of
  the savings association. Notwithstanding the above, the Board of Directors
  may exercise its authority without regard to the time period set forth,
  in exigent circumstances upon notification of the Chairman. The Board of
  Directors shall, by agreement with the Chairman, set forth those exigent
  circumstances in which the Corporation may act without regard to the time
  period set forth above.'.
SEC. 926. EFFECT ON OTHER AUTHORITY.
  Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(v) EFFECT ON OTHER AUTHORITY- The authority granted to the appropriate
  Federal banking agencies under this section shall be in addition to, and
  not be restricted by, any other authority provided by Federal or State law.'.
SEC. 927. NONDELEGABILITY.
  Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(w) NONDELEGABILITY- Any decision by the Board of Directors to--
  `(1) issue a notice of intention to terminate insured status under subsection
  (a);
  `(2) issue a temporary order suspending deposit insurance;
  `(3) issue a final order terminating deposit insurance under subsection
  (a); or
  `(4) initiate an enforcement action against an ongoing savings association
  pursuant to subsection (v);
shall be made by the Board of Directors and may not be delegated.'.
SEC. 928. EFFECT OF RESIGNATION OF INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY.
  Section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818) is amended
  by adding at the end of the following:
  `(x) EFFECT OF RESIGNATION OF INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY- The jurisdiction
  and authority of the appropriate Federal banking agency to proceed under
  this Act against any institution-related party shall not be affected by the
  resignation, termination of employment, or other separation of such person
  from an insured financial institution, including separation caused by the
  failure or deregistration of the institution. The preceding sentence shall
  also apply to all matters which are pending as of the effective date of
  the FIRRE Act, whether or not formally commenced, so long as the person
  was an institution-related party at the time the alleged transaction or
  conduct occurred.'.
SEC. 929. PENALTY FOR PARTICIPATION.
  Section 19 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1829) is amended
  to read as follows:
`SEC. 19. PENALTY FOR PARTICIPATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Except with the prior written consent of the Corporation,
  a person who has been convicted, or who is hereafter convicted, of any
  criminal offense involving dishonesty or a breach of trust shall not--
  `(1) act or serve as an institution-related party of an insured financial
  institution, or
  `(2) participate in the conduct of the affairs of any insured financial
  institution.
  `(b) PENALTY- For each knowing violation of this section--
  `(1) the financial institution or the individual involved each shall be
  fined not more than $1,000,000 for each day such prohibition is violated, or
  `(2) the individual involved shall be imprisoned for not more than five
  years,
or both, and the financial institution and the individual shall be subject to
a civil penalty of not more than $1,000,000 for each day such prohibition is
violated. The Corporation may recover the costs of assessment and collection
of such penalty for its use.'.
SEC. 930. PARALLEL INCREASES IN CIVIL PENALTY PROVISIONS.
  (a) FEDERAL RESERVE ACT- Section 29(a) of the Federal Reserve Act
  (12 U.S.C. 504(a)) is amended by striking `$1,000 per day for each day
  during which such violation continues' and inserting `$25,000 for each
  day during which such violation continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
  for violations made with reckless disregard for the safety or soundness of
  the financial institution, the agency authorized to impose the penalty may,
  in its discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 per day
  for each day during which such violation continues. The jurisdiction and
  authority of the agency with authority to impose a civil penalty under
  this section against an officer, director, employee, or agent of a bank
  shall not be affected by the resignation, termination of employment, or
  other separation of such person from an insured bank, including separation
  caused by the failure of the institution. The preceding sentence shall also
  apply to all matters which are pending as of the effective date of the
  FIRRE Act, whether or not formally commenced, so long as the individual
  was an officer, director, employee, or agent of the bank at the time the
  alleged transactions or conduct occurred.'.
  (b) BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT- Section 8 of the Bank Holding Company Act
  of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1847) is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(a) Any company which willfully violates any provision of this Act,
  or any regulation or order issued by the Board pursuant thereto shall be
  subject to a fine of $1,000,000 for each day during which such violation
  continues. Any individual who willfully participates in a violation of any
  provision of this Act or any rule, regulation or order thereunder, shall
  be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000,000 for each day during which
  such violation continues or shall be imprisoned for not more than 5 years,
  or both.'; and
  (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
  (A) by striking the first sentence and inserting the following: `Any
  company which or individual who willfully participates in a violation of any
  provision of this Act, or any regulation or order issued pursuant thereto,
  shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $1,000,000 per day for each day
  during which such violation continues and for all other violations shall
  pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 per day for each day during
  which such violation continues.'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following sentence: `Criminal and civil
  penalties under this section are cumulative.'.
  (c) BANK HOLDING COMPANY AMENDMENTS- Section 106(b)(2)(F)(i) of the
  Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1972(2)(F)(i))
  is amended by striking `$1,000 per day for each day during which such
  violation continues' and inserting `$25,000 for each day during which
  such violation continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for violations
  made with reckless disregard for the safety or soundness of the financial
  institution, the agency having authority to impose a penalty may, in its
  discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 per day for each
  day during which such violation continues. The jurisdiction and authority
  of the agency with authority to impose a civil penalty under this section
  against an officer, director, employee, or agent of a bank shall not be
  affected by the resignation, termination of employment, or other separation
  of such person from an insured bank, including separation caused by the
  failure of the institution. The preceding sentence shall also apply to
  all matters which are pending as of the effective date of the FIRRE Act,
  whether or not formally commenced, so long as the individual was an officer,
  director, employee, or agent of the bank at the time the alleged transactions
  or conduct occurred'.
  (d) NATIONAL BANK VIOLATIONS- Section 5239 of the Revised Statutes (12
  U.S.C. 93) is amended in subsection (b)(1) by striking `$1,000 per day for
  each day during which such violation continues' and inserting `$25,000
  for each day during which such violation continues. Notwithstanding the
  foregoing, for violations made with reckless disregard for the safety or
  soundness of the financial institution, the Comptroller may, in his or her
  discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 per day for each
  day during which such violation continues. The jurisdiction and authority
  of the Comptroller to impose a civil penalty under this section against an
  officer, director, employee, or agent of a bank shall not be affected by
  the resignation, termination of employment, or other separation of such
  person from an insured bank, including separation caused by the failure
  of the institution. The preceding sentence shall also apply to all matters
  which are pending as of the effective date of the FIRRE Act, whether or not
  formally commenced, so long as the individual was an officer, director,
  employee, or agent of the bank at the time the alleged transactions or
  conduct occurred'.
  (e) NATIONAL BANK EXAMINATIONS- Section 5240 of the Revised Statutes (12
  U.S.C. 481) is amended by striking `$100 for each day such refusal shall
  continue' and inserting `not more than $25,000 for each day such refusal
  continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for violations made with reckless
  disregard for the safety or soundness of the bank, the Comptroller may,
  in his discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 for each
  day during which such refusal continues'.
  (f) NONMEMBER INSURED BANKS- Section 18(j)(4)(A) of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(j)(4)(A)) is amended by striking
  `$1,000 per day for each day during which such violation continues:'
  and inserting `$25,000 per day for each day during which such violation
  continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for violations made with reckless
  disregard for the safety or soundness of the bank, the Corporation may,
  in its discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 per day
  during which such violation continues. The jurisdiction and authority of
  the Corporation to impose a civil penalty under this section against an
  officer, director, employee, or agent of a bank shall not be affected by
  the resignation, termination of employment, or other separation of such
  person from an insured bank, including separation caused by the failure
  of the institution. The preceding sentence shall also apply to all matters
  which are pending as of the effective date of the FIRRE Act, whether or not
  formally commenced, so long as the individual was an officer, director,
  employee, or agent of the bank at the time the alleged transactions or
  conduct occurred:'.
SEC. 931. PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF `CHANGE IN BANK CONTROL ACT'.
  Section 7(j)(16) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(16))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(16) PENALTY-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Any person who violates any provision of this subsection,
  or any regulation or order issued by the appropriate Federal banking agency
  pursuant thereto, shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000
  for each day during which such violation continues. Notwithstanding the
  foregoing, for violations made with reckless disregard for the safety or
  soundness of the financial institution, the agency having authority to
  impose a civil money penalty, in its discretion, may assess a penalty of
  not more than $1,000,000 per day for each day during which such violation
  continues. The agency having authority to impose a civil money penalty
  may, in its discretion, compromise, modify, or remit any civil money
  penalty which is subject to imposition or has been imposed under such
  authority. The penalty may be assessed and collected by the appropriate
  Federal banking agency by written notice.
  `(B) ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION- A penalty imposed under this paragraph
  shall be assessed and collected in the manner provided in section 8(i)(2)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and any such assessment (including
  the determination of the amount of the penalty) shall be subject to the
  provisions of such section.'.
SEC. 932. REPORTS.
  (a) BANK PROTECTION ACT- Section 3 of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 (12
  U.S.C. 1882) is amended by striking in the first sentence of subsection (b)
  `and shall require the submission of periodic reports with respect to the
  installation, maintenance, and operation of security devices and procedures'.
  (b) NATIONAL BANKS-
  (1) REPORTS OF CONDITION- Section 5211 of the Revised Statutes (12
  U.S.C. 161) is amended--
  (A) by striking, in the fifth sentence of subsection (a), `within ten
  days after the receipt of a request thereof from him;' and inserting
  `within the period of time specified by the Comptroller;'; and
  (B) by striking the last sentence of subsection (c).
  (2) AMOUNT OF PENALTY- Section 5213 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 164)
  is amended by striking the first sentence and inserting the following:
  `Every association which fails to make, obtain, transmit, or publish any
  report or information required by the Comptroller under section 5211 of
  the Revised Statutes or which submits any false, misleading, or incomplete
  report or information shall be subject to a penalty for such failure,
  submission, or publication of not more than $25,000 for each day during
  which such failure continues or for each day from the time of submission
  or publication until such false, misleading, or incomplete report or
  information is corrected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for violations
  made with reckless disregard for the safety or soundness of the financial
  institution, the Comptroller may, in his discretion, assess a penalty of
  not more than $1,000,000 per day for each day during which such failure
  continues or for each day from the time of submission or publication until
  such false, misleading, or incomplete report or information is corrected. A
  penalty imposed under this section shall be assessed and collected in the
  manner provided in section 8(i)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
  and any such assessment (including the determination of the amount of the
  penalty) shall be subject to the provisions of such section.'.
  (c) STATE NONMEMBER BANKS- Section 7(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(1)) is amended by striking the last sentence and
  inserting the following: `Every such bank which fails to make or publish
  any such report within the period of time specified by the Corporation
  or which submits or publishes any false, misleading, or incomplete
  report or information shall be subject to a penalty for such failure,
  submission, or publication of not more than $25,000 for each day during
  which such failure continues or for each day from the time of submission
  or publication until such false, misleading, or incomplete report or
  information is corrected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for such failure,
  submission or publication resulting from reckless disregard for the safety
  or soundness of the institution, such bank shall be subject to a penalty of
  not more than $1,000,000 for each day during which such failure continues
  or for each day from the time of submission or publication until such
  false, misleading, or incomplete information is corrected. Such penalty
  may be collected by the Corporation by suit or otherwise and the costs of
  assessment and collection for such penalty retained by the Corporation for
  its own use. A penalty imposed under this paragraph shall be assessed and
  collected in the manner provided in section 8(i)(2) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act and any such assessment (including the determination of the
  amount of the penalty) shall be subject to the provisions of such section.'.
  (d) MEMBER BANKS- The sixth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act
  (12 U.S.C. 324) is amended by striking the fourth sentence and inserting
  `Every bank which fails to make such reports within the period of time
  specified by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or
  which submits or publishes any false, misleading, or incomplete report or
  information shall be subject to a penalty for such failure, submission, or
  publication of not more than $25,000 for each day during which such failure
  continues or for each day from the time of submission or publication
  until such false, misleading, or incomplete report or information is
  corrected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for such failure, submission or
  publication resulting from reckless disregard for the safety or soundness
  of the bank, such bank shall be subject to a penalty of not more than
  $1,000,000 for each day during which such failure continues or for such day
  from the time of submission or publication until such false, misleading
  or incomplete information is corrected, and for all other such failures,
  submissions, or publications a penalty shall be assessed and collected in
  the same manner as prescribed by section 8(i)(2) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act and any such assessment (including the determination of the
  amount of the penalty) shall be subject to the provisions of such section.'.
  (e) BANK HOLDING COMPANIES- Section 8(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act
  of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1847(b)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (b)(1) as subsection (b) and redesignating
  sections (b)(2) through (6) as sections (d)(1) through (5); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
  `(c) REPORTING VIOLATIONS- Any company which fails to make such reports
  as are required by this chapter or any regulation or order issued pursuant
  thereto within the period of time specified by the Board or which submits
  or publishes any false, misleading or incomplete report or information
  shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day during
  which such failure continues or for each day from the time of submission or
  publication until such false, misleading, or incomplete report or information
  is corrected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for such failure, submission
  or publication made with reckless disregard, the company shall be subject
  to a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 for each day during which such
  failure continues or for each day from the time of submission or publication
  until such false or misleading report or submission is corrected.'.
Subtitle B--Regulation by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations
SEC. 941. REPORTS OF CONDITION AND PENALTIES.
  Section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1464), as amended
  by section 301, is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(w) REPORTS OF CONDITIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Each savings association shall make reports of condition to
  the Chairman which shall be in such form and shall contain such information
  as the Chairman may require.
  `(2) PUBLICATION- The Chairman may require reports of condition to be
  published in such manner as the Chairman may direct.
  `(3) PENALTY- Any savings association which fails to submit or publish
  any report or information required by the Chairman under paragraph (1)
  or (2) within the period of time specified by the Chairman, or submits
  or publishes any false, misleading, or incomplete report or information
  shall be subject to a penalty for such failure, submission, or publication
  of not more than $25,000 for each day during which such failure continues,
  or for each day from the time of submission or publication until such false,
  misleading, or incomplete report or information is corrected. Notwithstanding
  the foregoing, for violations resulting from reckless disregard for the
  safety or soundness of a savings association, the Chairman may, in his
  or her discretion, assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000 for each
  day during which such failure continues or for each day from the time
  of submission or publication until such false or misleading report or
  information is corrected.
  `(4) PROCEDURE- Any penalty imposed under paragraph (3) shall be assessed
  and collected by the Chairman in the manner provided in subsection (i)(6).
  `(5) ACCESS TO REPORTS- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
  have access to reports of condition made pursuant to paragraph (1) and
  any revision made to any such report.'.
SEC. 942. CONTINUITY OF AUTHORITY FOR ONGOING LITIGATION.
  All litigation in which the Federal Home Loan Bank Board or the Federal
  Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation is a party shall be continued after
  the effective date of this Act by the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the Federal
  Home Loan Bank Agency, as appropriate under this Act.
SEC. 943. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Any administrative hearing or proceeding initiated prior
  to the effective date of this Act or any order issued, agreement entered,
  condition imposed, memorandum of understanding entered, penalty assessed
  or capital directive issued--
  (1) pursuant to those provisions in section 5(d) of the Home Owners' Loan Act
  of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 1464(d)) that are repealed by title III of this Act, or
  (2) pursuant to section 407 (e) through (h), (k), or (p) of the National
  Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1730),
shall be continued by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations as
if those provisions remained in effect.
  (b) CONTINUING EFFECT OF ORDERS- Any person subject to an order, agreement,
  or condition issued by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
  or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board prior to the effective date of this
  Act shall remain subject to the provisions of such order with respect to an
  institution that is a member of the Savings Association Insurance fund unless
  otherwise authorized by the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations.
Subtitle C--Credit Unions
SEC. 951. DEFINITION OF INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY.
  Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended
  by striking the following phrases:
  (1) `director, officer, committee member, employee, agent, or other person
  participating in the conduct of the affairs of such a credit union';
  (2) `director, officer, committee member, employee, agent, or other person';
  (3) `director, officer, committee member, or employee';
  (4) `director, officer, or committee member';
  (5) `director, committee member, or officer';
  (6) `director, committee member, officer, or other person';
  (7) `officer, director, committee member, employee, agent, or other person
  participating in the conduct of the affairs of such a credit union';
  (8) `officer, director, committee member, employee, agent, or other person
  participating in the conduct of the affairs of such credit union';
  (9) `director, committee member, or officer or other person';
  (10) `director, committee member, officer or other person';
  (11) `director, officer, committee member or other person';
  (12) `director, officer, committee member, or other person'; and
  (13) `director, committee member, or officer of an insured credit union,
  or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of such
  credit union';
each place they appear and inserting `institution-related party'.
SEC. 952. PERIODS APPLICABLE TO INSURANCE TERMINATION.
  Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `one hundred and twenty days' and
  inserting `60 days'; and
  (2) in subsection (c), by striking `one year' and inserting `not less than
  6 months and not more than 2 years'.
SEC. 953. RESTITUTION AND REIMBURSEMENT AUTHORIZED.
  Section 206(e) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(e)) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3) RESTITUTION AND REIMBURSEMENT- The authority to issue an order
  under this subsection which requires an insured credit union or any
  institution-related party to take affirmative action to correct any
  conditions resulting from any violation or practice with respect to which
  such order is issued includes the authority to require such insured credit
  union or institution-related party to--
  `(A) make restitution or provide reimbursement or indemnification;
  `(B) provide a guarantee against loss;
  `(C) rescind agreements or contracts;
  `(D) dispose of any loan or asset involved;
  `(E) take such other action as the Board determines to be appropriate.
Such order may place limitations on the activities or functions of the credit
union or any institution-related party necessary to correct the conditions
resulting from any such violation or practice and may prohibit or restrict
the growth of assets of the credit union.'.
SEC. 954. LIMITATIONS ON ACTIVITIES.
  Section 206(e) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(e)) is
  amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(4) The authority to issue an order under this subsection or subsection
  (f) includes the authority to place limitations on the activities or
  functions of an insured credit union, or institution-related party,
  including restriction on the growth of assets of the credit union.'.
SEC. 955. TEMPORARY CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS RELATING TO BOOKS AND RECORDS.
  Section 206(f) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(f))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `substantial' and `seriously';
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
  respectively;
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
  `(2) Orders relating to books and records-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Whenever the Board determines that any insured credit
  union's books and records are so incomplete or inaccurate that the
  Board is unable through the normal supervisory process to determine the
  financial condition of that credit union or the details or purpose of any
  transactions that may have an adverse effect on the financial condition of
  that credit union, the Board may issue a temporary order requiring cessation
  of any activities the Board deems appropriate, including prohibitions or
  restrictions on the growth of assets of the credit union, or affirmative
  action to restore such books and records to a complete and accurate state,
  until completion of proceedings conducted under paragraph (1) of subsection
  (e) of this section.
  `(B) EFFECTIVENESS OF ORDER- Such order shall become effective upon service,
  and shall remain effective and enforceable--
  `(i) pending completion of the administrative proceeding initiated under
  such notice, or
  `(ii) until the Board determines by examination or otherwise that the
  credit union's books and records are accurate and capable of reflecting
  the financial condition of the credit union,
unless set aside, limited, or suspended by a court in proceedings authorized
by paragraph (3) of this subsection.'; and
  (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (3), as redesignated, the following:
  `The court shall issue an injunction preventing enforcement of the temporary
  order issued under this subsection only upon a finding that issuance of such
  order by the appropriate Federal banking agency was arbitrary, capricious,
  an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.'.
SEC. 956. REMOVAL ORDERS.
  Section 206(g) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)) is
  amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the following:
  `(1) REMOVAL ORDERS- Whenever the Board determines that--
  `(A) any institution-related party, directly or indirectly, has--
  `(i) violated any law, rule, regulation, written agreement entered into
  with the Board, or order which has become final,
  `(i) engaged or participated in any unsafe or unsound practice in connection
  with any insured credit union or other business institution,
  `(iii) committed or engaged in any act, omission, or practice which
  constitutes a breach of his fiduciary duty, or
  `(iv) by conduct or practice evidenced his personal dishonesty or unfitness
  to continue as an institution-related party; and
  `(B) such insured credit union or other business institution has suffered
  or will probably suffer substantial financial loss or other damage, or the
  interests of its insured members have been or could be seriously prejudiced
  by reason of such violation, practice, or breach, or the institution-related
  party has received financial gain by reason of such violation, practice,
  or breach,
the Board may serve upon such institution-related party a written notice of
its intention to remove such party from office or to prohibit his further
participation in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of any insured
credit union.'.
SEC. 957. TEMPORARY SUSPENSION ORDERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 206(g) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
  U.S.C. 1786(g)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (7),
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (6) as paragraphs (2) through
  (5), respectively, and
  (3) by amending paragraph (3) (as so redesignated) to read as follows:
  `(3) Temporary Suspension Orders-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- With respect to any institution-related party referred
  to in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, the Board may, if it deems
  necessary for the protection of the credit union or the interests of its
  members, by written order to such effect served upon such party, suspend
  that party from office or prohibit that party from further participation
  in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of the credit union.
  `(B) EFFECTIVENESS OF ORDER- Such suspension or prohibition shall become
  effective upon service of such order on the institution-related party. Such
  order shall remain in effect pending the completion of the administrative
  proceedings pursuant to the notice served under paragraphs (1) and (2)
  of this subsection and until--
  `(i) such time as the Board shall dismiss the charges specified in such
  notice, or
  `(ii) if an order of removal or prohibition is issued against such party,
  the effective date of any such order,
unless stayed by a court in proceedings authorized by paragraph (5) of this
subsection. Copies of any order issued pursuant to this paragraph shall also be
served upon any institution where the party involved is presently associated.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 206(g)(5) of the Federal Credit Union Act
  (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)(5)), as redesignated, is amended--
  (1) by striking `(4)' and inserting `(3)';
  (2) by striking `(1), (2), or (3)' and inserting `(1) or (2)'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following: `The court shall issue an injunction
  preventing enforcement of the temporary order issued under this subsection
  only upon a finding that issuance of such order by the appropriate Federal
  banking agency was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or
  otherwise not in accordance with law.'.
SEC. 958. EFFECT OF REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION.
  Section 206(g) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)), as
  redesignated, is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(6) EFFECT OF SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL ORDER- Any person who is subject to
  a removal, suspension, or prohibition order pursuant to this subsection
  shall also be removed, suspended, or prohibited from participation in the
  conduct of the affairs of--
  `(A) any insured financial institution,
  `(B) any bank holding company or subsidiary of a bank holding company
  (as those terms are defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956),
  `(C) any organization organized and operated under section 25(a) of the
  Federal Reserve Act or operating under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act,
  `(D) any subsidiary of any insured financial institution,
  `(E) any savings and loan holding company or any subsidiary of a savings
  and loan holding company (as those terms are defined in the Home Owners'
  Loan Act of 1933), and
  `(F) any institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971,
unless the party involved has received the prior written approval of the
appropriate Federal regulatory agency that issued the order.'.
SEC. 959. EFFECT OF RESIGNATION OF INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY.
  Section 206(g) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(g)) is
  amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(7) The Board may serve notice under paragraph (1) or (2) of its intention
  to prohibit any person from participating in the conduct of the affairs of
  any insured credit union or other federally regulated depository institution,
  notwithstanding the fact that such person has ceased to hold the position of
  officer or director of an insured credit union or has ceased to participate
  in the conduct of the affairs of such insured credit union, as the case
  may be, before such notice is served, including separation caused by the
  failure of the credit union. The preceding sentence shall also apply to all
  matters which are pending as of the effective date of the FIRRE Act, whether
  or not formally commenced, so long as the person was an institution-related
  party at the time the alleged transaction or conduct occurred.'.
SEC. 960. CIVIL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF CONDITION IMPOSED IN WRITING.
  The first sentence of section 206(k)(2)(A) of the Federal Credit Union
  Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(k)(2)(A)) is amended to read as follows: `Any insured
  credit union and any institution-related party which has--
  `(i) violated any law or regulation relating to financial institutions,
  or any condition imposed in writing by the Board in connection with
  the granting of an application or other request by the credit union or
  institution-related party, or the terms of any order which has become
  final under subsection (e), (f), (g), (i), or (p) of this section; or
  `(ii) breached any fiduciary duty or engaged in any unsafe or unsound
  practice where such breach or practice has resulted in a loss to the credit
  union or pecuniary gain to the institution-related party;
shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day during which
such violation continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for a violation
made with reckless disregard for the safety or soundness of the financial
institution, the Board may, in its discretion, assess a penalty of not more
than $1,000,000 per day for each day during which such violation continues.'.
SEC. 961. CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION ORDER.
  Section 206(l) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786(l)) is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(l) PENALTY- Any person against whom there is outstanding and effective
  any order served upon such person under paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection
  (g) or under subsection (i) who, directly or indirectly, without the prior
  written approval of the Board--
  `(1) participates in any manner in the conduct of the affairs of--
  `(A) any insured institution,
  `(B) any bank holding company or subsidiary of a bank holding company
  (as those terms are defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956),
  `(C) any organization organized and operated under section 25(a) of the
  Federal Reserve Act or operating under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act,
  `(D) any savings and loan holding company or subsidiary thereof (as those
  terms are defined in the National Housing Act), or
  `(E) any institution chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971;
  `(2) solicits or procures, or transfers or attempts to transfer, or votes
  or attempts to vote any proxies, consents, or authorization in respect to
  any voting rights in an institution described in paragraph (1); or
  `(3) votes for a director, or serves or acts as an institution-related
  party of an institution described in paragraph (1);
shall be fined not more than $1,000,000,000 or imprisoned for not more than
5 years, or both.'.
SEC. 962. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
  Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended
  by striking subsection (m) and redesignating subsections (n), (o), (p)
  and (q) of this section as subsections (m), (n), (o) and (p), respectively.
SEC. 963. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(q) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
  `(1) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL REGULATORY AGENCY- The term `appropriate Federal
  regulatory agency' has the same meaning as in section 8 of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act.
  `(2) ORDER WHICH HAS BECOME FINAL- The term `order which has become final'
  means an order issued by the Board--
  `(A) with the consent of the credit union or the institution-related
  party concerned;
  `(B) which is not subject to further administration review.
  `(3) INSTITUTION-RELATED PARTY-
  `(A) The term `institution-related party' means a director, officer,
  committee member, employee, agent, or other person participating in the
  conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union.
  `(B) For the purpose of this paragraph, the term `other person participating
  in the conduct of the affairs of an insured credit union' includes, in
  addition, an independent contractor (including an attorney, appraiser,
  or accountant) who knowingly or recklessly participates in a wrongful
  action that caused or is likely to cause significant loss.
  `(4) INSURED INSTITUTION- The term `insured institution' means an insured
  credit union, as defined in section 101, or a depository institution whose
  accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
  `(5) VIOLATION- The term `violation' includes without limitation any action
  (alone or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about,
  participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.'.
SEC. 964. EFFECT OF OTHER LAW.
  Section 206 of the Federal Credit Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended by adding
  at the end thereof the following:
  `(r) EFFECT OF OTHER LAW- The authority granted to the Board under this
  section shall be in addition to, and not restricted by, any other authority
  provided by Federal or State law.'.
SEC. 965. EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION.
  Section 206 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1786) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `(s) EMPLOYMENT PROTECTION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- A credit union may not discharge or otherwise discriminate
  against any officer, director, or employee with respect to compensation,
  terms, conditions, or privileges of employment or membership because such
  individual (or any person acting pursuant to the request of such individual)
  provided information to any financial institution regulatory authority or
  to the Department of Justice regarding a possible violation of any law or
  regulation by the credit union or its institution-related party.
  `(2) CIVIL ACTION- Any employee or former employee who believes he or she
  has been discharged or discriminated against in violation of paragraph (1)
  may file a civil action in Federal district court within 2 years from the
  date of such discharge or discrimination.
  `(3) REMEDIES- If the district court determines that a violation of
  paragraph (1) has occurred, it may order the financial institution which
  committed the violation to reinstate the employee to his former position,
  to pay compensatory damages, or to take other appropriate action to remedy
  any past discrimination.
  `(4) EXCEPTION- The protections of this subsection do not apply to
  any employee who deliberately causes the alleged violation of law or
  regulation.'.
SEC. 966. PROHIBITION AGAINST PARTICIPATION.
  Section 205 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1785) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence of subsection (d), by inserting after `insured
  credit union' the following: `or shall participate in the conduct of the
  affairs of such insured credit union'; and
  (2) by striking the second sentence of subsection (d) and inserting `For
  each violation of this subsection, the credit union or the individual
  involved shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for each day
  such violation continues. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for violations made
  with reckless disregard for the safety or soundness of the institution, the
  Board, in its discretion may assess a penalty of not more than $1,000,000
  per day for each day such violation continues. The Board may recover the
  costs of penalty assessment and collection for its use.'.
SEC. 967. REPEAL OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
  Section 205(e)(2) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1787(e)(2)) is
  amended in the first sentence by striking `and shall require the submission
  of periodic reports with respect to the installation, maintenance, and
  operation of security devices and procedures'.
SEC. 968. REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
  Section 202(a)(3) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1782(a)(3))
  is amended by striking the second sentence and inserting the following:
  `Any insured credit union which--
  `(A) fails to submit or publish any report required under this subsection
  or section 106 within the period of time specified by the Board; or
  `(B) submits or publishes any false, misleading, or incomplete report
  or information;
shall be subject to a penalty for such failure, submission, or publication
or false, misleading, or incomplete submission of not more than $25,000 for
each day during which such failure continues or for each day from the time
of submission or publication until such false, misleading, or incomplete
report or information is corrected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for
violations made with reckless disregard for the safety or soundness of a
credit union, the Board, in its discretion, may assess a penalty of not more
than $1,000,000 for each day during which such failure continues or for each
day from the time of submission or publication until such false, misleading,
or incomplete report or information is corrected. Any penalty imposed by the
preceding sentence shall be assessed and collected by the Board in the manner
provided in section 206(k)(2) (for penalties imposed under such section),
and any such assessment (including the determination of the amount of the
penalty) shall be subject to the provisions of such section.'.
Subtitle D--Right to Financial Privacy Act
SEC. 981. AMENDMENTS TO RIGHT TO FINANCIAL PRIVACY ACT.
  (a) DEFINITIONS- Section 1101 of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978
  (12 U.S.C. 3401) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7) and (8),
  respectively; and
  (2) in paragraph (7), as redesignated, by striking all matter before
  subparagraph (A) and inserting in lieu thereof:
  `(7) `supervisory agency' means with respect to any particular financial
  institution, holding company, or any subsidiary of a financial institution
  or holding company, any of the following which has statutory authority
  to examine the financial condition, business operations or records or
  transactions of that institution, holding company, or subsidiary--'; and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:
  `(6) `holding company' means--
  `(A) a `bank holding company' as defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding
  Company Act of 1956,
  `(B) a company described in section 3(f)(1) of the Bank Holding Company
  Act of 1956, or
  `(C) a `savings and loan holding company' as defined in the Home Owners'
  Loan Act of 1933.'.
  (b) EXCEPTIONS TO DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS- Section 1113 of the Right of
  Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3413(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
  `(b) Nothing in this chapter applies to the examination by or disclosure
  to any supervisory agency of financial records or information in the
  exercise of its supervisory, regulatory, or monetary functions, including
  conservatorship or receivership functions, with respect to any financial
  institution, holding company, or any subsidiary of a financial institution
  or holding company, or any officer, director, employee, agent or other
  person participating in the affairs thereof.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(m) Nothing in this title shall apply to the examination by or disclosure
  to employees or agents of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
  System or any Federal Reserve Bank of financial records or information,
  if such examination or disclosure is made in connection with the exercise
  of the Federal Reserve System's authority to extend credit to depository
  institutions or others.
  `(n) Nothing in this title shall apply to the examination by or disclosure
  to the Resolution Trust Corporation or its employees or agents of financial
  records or information, if such examination or disclosure is made in
  connection with the exercise of its conservatorship, receivership, or
  liquidation functions with respect to a financial institution.'.
  (c) GRAND JURY INFORMATION- Section 1120 of the Right to Financial Privacy
  Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3420) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' before `Financial'; and
  (2) by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph:
  `(b) A financial institution on which a grand jury subpoena has been
  served, relating to a possible violation of section 215, 656, 657, 1005,
  1006, 1007, 1008, 1014, or 1344 of title 18, United States Code, shall
  not notify the customer whose records are sought or any other party about
  the existence or contents of the subpoena or information that has been
  furnished to the grand jury in response to that subpoena. Any person who
  violates the requirement of the preceding sentence shall be punished as
  provided in section 1510(b) of title 18, United States Code.'.
TITLE X--CRIMINAL ENHANCEMENTS
SEC. 1001. INCREASED CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND CIVIL PENALTIES FOR CERTAIN
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION OFFENSES.
  (a) RECEIPT OF COMMISSIONS OR GIFTS FOR PROCURING LOANS- Section 215 of
  title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking `$5,000' and inserting `$1,000,000';
  (B) by striking `five' and inserting `20'; and
  (C) by striking the period at the end thereof and inserting: `and shall be
  subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000 or the amount of the thing given,
  offered, promised, solicited, demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted,
  whichever is greater. Civil and criminal penalties under this section are
  cumulative.'; and
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) by striking `a bank' in paragraph (1) and inserting `an institution';
  (B) by striking paragraphs (2) and (8);
  (C) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs
  (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6);
  (D) by inserting `or' at the end of paragraph (6); and
  (E) by striking `; or' at the end of paragraph (7) and inserting a period;
  and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(e) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person who
  violates the provisions of this section. The action may be brought in any
  district court of the United States or the United States courts of any
  territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple defendants,
  any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found, or in which
  any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring the attendance of a
  witness at trial or hearing conducted under this section may be served at any
  place in the United States. The court in which such action is brought shall
  determine the existence of a violation upon a preponderance of the evidence,
  shall assess the civil penalty, and shall have power to grant such other
  relief, including injunctions, as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall
  be in addition to any other remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(f)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. Any failure to obey such order of the court
  may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in any
  such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (b) THEFT, EMBEZZLEMENT, AND MISAPPLICATION BY BANK OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE-
  Section 656 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `$5,000' and inserting `$1,000,000 or twice the amount
  authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater,' and
  striking `five' and inserting `20';
  (2) by striking the period at the end of the first paragraph and inserting
  the following: `and shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000
  for each day the violation continues or the amount embezzled, abstracted,
  purloined or willfully misapplied and any pecuniary gain attributable to
  the proscribed conduct, or $5,000,000, whichever is greater. Civil and
  criminal penalties under this section are cumulative.'; and
  (3) by inserting `(a)' before `Whoever' and adding new subsections (b)
  and (c) as follows:
  `(b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(c)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. Any failure to obey such order of the court
  may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in any
  such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (c) THEFT, EMBEZZLEMENT, OR MISAPPLICATION BY LENDING, CREDIT, OR INSURANCE
  INSTITUTION OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE- Section 657 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `$5,000' and inserting `$1,000,000 or twice the amount
  authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater,' and
  striking `five' and inserting `twenty';
  (2) by striking the period at the end of the section and inserting the
  following: `and shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000 for
  each day the violation continues or the amount embezzled, abstracted,
  purloined or willfully misapplied and any pecuniary gain attributable to
  that proscribed conduct, or $5,000,000, whichever is greater. Civil and
  criminal penalties under this section are cumulative.'; and
  (3) by inserting `(a)' before `Whoever' and by adding new subsections (b)
  and (c) as follows:
  `(b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(c)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. And any failure to obey such order of the
  court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in
  any such case may be served in the judicial district whereof such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (d) BANK ENTRIES, REPORTS, AND TRANSACTIONS- Section 1005 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `bank holding company, savings and loan holding company,'
  after `member bank,' in the first clause thereof;
  (2) by inserting `or company' after `such bank' each place it appears in
  the third clause;
  (3) by striking `--' at the end of the third clause following the words
  `Federal Reserve System' and inserting `; or';
  (4) by inserting after the third clause the following:
  `Whoever with intent to defraud the United States or any agency thereof,
  or any financial institution referred to in this section, participates or
  shares in or receives directly or indirectly any money, profit, property,
  or benefits through any transaction, loan, commission, contract, or any
  other act of any such financial institution--';
  (5) by striking `$5,000' and inserting `$1,000,000 or twice the amount
  authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater' and
  striking `five' and inserting `20';
  (6) by striking the period at the end of the first paragraph and inserting
  the following: `and shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000
  for each day the violation continues or the amount of any pecuniary
  gain attributable to the proscribed actions, or $5,000,000, whichever is
  greater. Civil and criminal penalties under this section are cumulative.';
  and
  (7) by inserting `(a)' before `Whoever' at the beginning of the subsection
  and by adding new subsections (b) and (c) as follows:
  `(b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(c)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued, to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. And any failure to obey such order of the
  court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in
  any such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (e) FEDERAL CREDIT INSTITUTION ENTRIES, REPORTS, AND TRANSACTIONS- Section
  1006 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `$10,000' and inserting `$1,000,000 or twice the amount
  authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater' and by
  striking `five' and inserting `20';
  (2) by striking the period at the end of the section and inserting the
  following: `and shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000 for each
  day the violation continues or the amount of pecuniary gain attributable
  to the proscribed action, or $5,000,000, whichever is greater. Civil and
  criminal penalties under this section are cumulative.'; and
  (3) by inserting `(a)' before `Whoever' and by adding new subsections (b)
  and (c) as follows:
  `(b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(c)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. And any failure to obey such order of the
  court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in
  any such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (f) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION TRANSACTIONS- Section 1007 of
  title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
` 1007. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation transactions
  `(a) Whoever, for the purpose of inducing the insurance of the accounts
  of any institution by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, for
  the purpose of obtaining any loan from the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation, for the purpose of obtaining any extension or renewal of such
  insurance or such loan, or for the purpose of obtaining the acceptance,
  release, or substitution of security for such loan, or for the purpose of
  inducing the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to purchase any assets,
  or for the purpose of obtaining the payment of any insured deposit or
  transferred deposit or the allowance, approval, or payment of any claim,
  or for the purpose of influencing in any way the action of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation, makes, passes, utters, or publishes any
  statement, knowing it to be false; utters, forges, or counterfeits any
  instrument, paper, or document, or utters, publishes, or passes as true
  any instrument, paper or document, knowing it to have been uttered, forged,
  or counterfeited; or willfully overvalues any security, asset, or income,
  of any institution insured or applying for insurance by the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or twice the
  amount authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater,
  or imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both, and shall be subject
  to a civil penalty of $1,000,000 for each day the violation continues,
  or the amount of pecuniary gain attributable to the proscribed action,
  or $5,000,000, whichever is greater. Civil and criminal penalties under
  this section are cumulative.
  `(b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(c)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. And any failure to obey such order of the
  court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in
  any such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (g) FSLIC TRANSACTIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 1008 of title 18, United States Code, is repealed.
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections of chapter 47 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 1008.
  (h) LOANS AND CREDIT APPLICATIONS GENERALLY- Section 1014 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board,
  the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, a Federal Savings and Loan Association',
  by striking `the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, any bank
  the deposits of which are insured by', by striking `any member of', and
  by inserting `the Resolution Trust Corporation' after `Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation,';
  (2) by striking `$5,000' and inserting `$1,000,000 or twice the amount
  authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater' and
  striking `two' and inserting `20';
  (3) by striking the period at the end of the first paragraph and inserting
  the following: `and shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000
  for each day the violation continues, or the amount of any pecuniary
  gain attributable to the false statement or report or overvaluation, or
  $5,000,000, whichever is greater. Civil and criminal penalties under this
  section are cumulative.'; and
  (4) by inserting `(a)' before `Whoever' and by adding new subsections (b)
  and (c) as follows:
  `(b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(c)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. And any failure to obey such order of the
  court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in
  any such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (i) BANK FRAUD- Section 1344(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `$10,000' and inserting `$1,000,000 or twice the amount
  authorized by section 3571(d) of this title, whichever is greater' and
  striking `five' and inserting `20';
  (2) by and striking the period at the end and inserting the following:
  `and shall be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000,000 for each day the
  violation continues or the amount of pecuniary gain attributable to the
  fraud, or $5,000,000, whichever is greater. Civil and criminal penalties
  and restitution under this section are cumulative.';
  (3) by striking `bank' and inserting `institution' in subsection (b)(2);
  (4) by striking paragraph (4) and redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph
  (4); and
  (5) by adding at the end the following:
  `(c) The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person
  who violates the provisions of the preceding section. The action may be
  brought in any district court of the United States or the United States
  courts of any territory in which the defendant or, in the case of multiple
  defendants, any one defendant resides, is doing business, may be found,
  or in which any proscribed act was committed. A subpoena requiring
  the attendance of a witness at trial or hearing conducted under this
  provision may be served at any place in the United States. The court in
  which such action is brought shall determine the existence of a violation
  upon a preponderance of the evidence, shall assess the civil penalty,
  and shall have power to grant such other relief, including injunctions,
  as may be appropriate. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other
  remedy available under statutory or common law.
  `(d)(1) For the purpose of any civil investigation or proceeding under
  this section, the Attorney General or any officer designated by him is
  empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses, compel
  their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any books,
  papers, correspondence, memoranda, or other records which the Attorney
  General deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such attendance of
  witnesses and the production of any such records may be required from any
  place in the United States or any State at any designated place of hearing.
  `(2) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to, any
  person, the Attorney General may invoke the aid of any court of the United
  States within the jurisdiction of which such investigation or proceeding
  is carried on, or where such person resides or carries on business, in
  requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
  books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other records. And such court
  may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the Attorney
  General or officer designated by the Attorney General to produce records,
  if so ordered, or to give testimony touching upon the matter under civil
  investigation or in question. And any failure to obey such order of the
  court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof. All process in
  any such case may be served in the judicial district where such person is
  an inhabitant or wherever he may be found. Any person who shall, without
  just cause, fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful
  inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and other
  records, if in his power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena or the
  Attorney General shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
  shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for
  a term of not more than one year, or both.'.
  (j) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION OFFENSES-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Chapter 213 of title 18, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`Sec. 3293. Financial institution offenses
  `No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for violation of any
  provision of sections 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1008, 1014, or
  1344 of this title, or for conspiracy to commit violations of any of the
  aforementioned sections, unless the indictment is returned or the information
  is filed within 10 years after the commission of the offense. This section
  shall apply to any of the aforementioned offenses committed before the
  effective date of this section, if the statute of limitations applicable
  to that offense under this chapter had not run as of the effective date
  of this section.'.
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections of chapter 213 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
`3293. Financial institution offenses.'.
  (k) SENTENCING GUIDELINES- Pursuant to its authority under section 994(p)
  of title 28, United States Code, and section 21 of the Sentencing Act of
  1987, the United States Sentencing Commission shall promulgate guidelines,
  or shall amend existing guidelines, to provide that a defendant convicted
  of violating section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1008, 1014, or 1344
  of title 18, United States Code, under circumstances which substantially
  jeopardize the safety and soundness of a financial institution shall be
  assigned an offense level under chapter 2 of the sentencing guidelines
  that is not less than level 24. If the sentencing guidelines are amended
  after the effective date of this section, the Sentencing Commission shall
  implement the instruction set forth in this subsection so as to achieve
  a comparable result.
SEC. 1002. MISCELLANEOUS REVISIONS TO TITLE 18.
  (a) USE OF TERM `FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK SYSTEM'- Title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `Federal Home Loan Bank Board' wherever it
  appears and inserting `Office of Savings Associations'.
  (b) OFFER OF LOAN OR GRATUITY- Section 212 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `bank' or `banks' wherever they appear and inserting
  `financial institution' or `financial institutions', respectively (except
  in the phrases `land bank' and `member banks'); and
  (2) by inserting `Office of Savings Associations,' after `Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation,' in the second sentence.
  (c) ACCEPTANCE OF LOAN OR GRATUITY- Section 213 of title 18, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `banks the deposits of which' and inserting
  `financial institutions the deposits of which'.
  (d) RUMORS REGARDING THE FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN INSURANCE CORPORATION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 1009 of title 18, United States Code, is repealed.
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The analysis of chapter 47 of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 1009.
  (e) COMPUTER FRAUD- Section 1030(e)(4) of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `a bank' in subparagraph (A) and inserting `an institution,'
  and
  (2) by striking subparagraph (C) and redesignating subparagraphs (D),
  (E), (F), (G), and (H), as subparagraphs (C), (D), (E), (F), and (G),
  respectively.
  (f) PROTECTION OF UNITED STATES OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES- Section 1114 of
  title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking `the Federal Savings
  and Loan Insurance Corporation,'.
  (g) PARTICIPATION IN LOTTERIES- Section 1306 of title 18, is amended by
  striking `section 20 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, or section 410
  of the National Housing Act' and inserting `or section 20 of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act'.
  (h) OBSTRUCTION OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS- Section 1510 of title 18,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c), and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
  `(b) Whoever, being an officer, director, partner, or employee of a financial
  institution (as that term is defined in section 3401 of title 12, United
  States Code), directly or indirectly notifies a customer of that financial
  institution whose financial records are sought by a grand jury subpoena
  served on that financial institution, relating to a possible violation of
  section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1008, 1014, or 1344 of title 18,
  United States Code, or any other party about the existence or contents
  of the subpoena or information that has been furnished to the grand jury
  in response to that subpoena shall be fined not more than $5,000 or be
  imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.'.
  (i) RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS- Section 1961(1) of
  title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `sections 656 and 657 (relating to financial institution
  embezzlement),' after `(relating to counterfeiting),'; and
  (2) by inserting `section 1344 (relating to financial institution fraud),'
  after `(relating to wire fraud),'.
  (j) BANK ROBBERY- Section 2113 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (f), by striking `any bank the deposits of which' and
  inserting `any institution the deposits of which';
  (2) by inserting before the period at the end of subsection (h) the
  following: `, and any `Federal credit union' as defined in section 2 of
  the Federal Credit Union Act'; and
  (3) by striking subsection (g) and redesignating subsection (h) as subsection
  (g).
SEC. 1003. CIVIL AND CRIMINAL FORFEITURE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 46 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
`Sec. 983. Civil forfeiture relating to certain financial institution
violations
  `(a) Any property, real or personal, which constitutes or is derived from
  proceeds traceable to a violation of section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006,
  1007, 1014, or 1344 of this title affecting a federally insured financial
  institution, shall be subject to forfeiture to the United States, except
  that no property shall be forfeited under this section, to the extent of
  the interest of an owner or lienholder by reason of any act or omission
  established by that owner or lienholder to have been committed or omitted
  without the knowledge or consent of that owner or lienholder.
  `(b) Any property subject to civil forfeiture to the United States under
  this section may be seized by the Attorney General upon process issued
  pursuant to the Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime
  Claims by any district court of the United States having jurisdiction over
  the property, except that seizure without such process may be made when
  the seizure is incident to a lawful arrest or search or if the Attorney
  General has probable cause to believe that the property is subject to
  civil forfeiture under this section. In the event of seizure pursuant to
  paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, proceedings under subsection (d)
  of this section shall be instituted promptly. The Government may request
  the issuance of a warrant authorizing the seizure of property subject to
  forfeiture under this section in the same manner as provided for a search
  warrant under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.
  `(c) Property taken or detained under this section shall not be
  repleviable, but shall be deemed to be in the custody of the Attorney
  General, subject only to the orders and decrees of the court or the official
  having jurisdiction thereof. Whenever property is seized under any of the
  provisions of this subchapter, the Attorney General may--
  `(1) place the property under seal;
  `(2) remove the property to a place designated by him; or
  `(3) require that the General Services Administration take custody of the
  property and remove it, if practicable, to an appropriate location for
  disposition in accordance with law.
  `(d) The provisions of law relating to the seizure, summary and judicial
  forfeiture, and condemnation of property for violation of customs laws;
  the disposition of such property or the proceeds from the sale thereof; the
  remission or mitigation of such forfeitures; and the compromise of claims
  shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been
  incurred, under this section, insofar as applicable and not inconsistent
  with the provisions hereof; except that such duties as are imposed upon
  the customs officer or any other person with respect to the seizure and
  forfeiture of property under the customs laws shall be performed with
  respect to seizures of property under this section by the Federal Bureau
  of Investigation, and with respect to custody and forfeitures under this
  section by such officers, agents, or other persons as may be authorized
  or designated for that purpose by the Attorney General.
  `(e)(1) Whenever property is forfeited under this section, the Attorney
  General may sell any forfeited property which is not required to be
  destroyed by law and which is not harmful to the public.
  `(2)(A) The Attorney General shall transfer the property or proceeds from
  the sale of such property to any federal financial institution regulatory
  agency to the extent of such agency's contribution of resources to, or
  expenses involved in, the seizures and forfeiture, and the investigation
  leading directly to the seizure and forfeiture, of such property; and
  `(B) The Attorney General may retain property and proceeds from the sale
  of such property to the extent of the Attorney General's contribution
  of resources to, or expenses involved in, the seizure and forfeiture,
  and the investigation leading directly to the seizure and forfeiture,
  of such property. Such expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses
  for maintenance of custody, advertising, and court cost.
  `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the affected financial
  institution is in receivership, property forfeited pursuant to this section,
  or proceeds from the sale of such property, less any amount transferred
  pursuant to subsection (e)(2) of this section, shall be deposited to the
  General Fund of the Treasury.
  `(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the affected financial
  institution is not in receivership, property forfeited pursuant to this
  section, or proceeds from the sale of such property, less any amount
  transferred pursuant to subsection (e)(2) of this section, shall be
  deposited to the General Fund of the Treasury or may be made available
  upon the order of the appropriate Federal financial institution regulatory
  agency as restitution to that financial institution. Amounts received by the
  financial institution shall be set off against any amounts later recovered by
  the institution as compensatory damages in any State or Federal proceeding.
  `(5) The United States shall not be liable in any action arising out of
  a transfer made pursuant to subsection (e) (2), (3), or (4).
  `(f) All right, title, and interest in property described in subsection
  (a) of this section shall vest in the United States upon commission of
  the act giving rise to forfeiture under this section.
  `(g) The filing of an indictment or information alleging a violation of
  law which is also related to a civil forfeiture proceeding under this
  section shall, upon motion of the United States and for good cause shown,
  stay the civil forfeiture proceeding.
  `(h) In addition to the venue provided for in section 1395 of title 28 or
  other provision of law, in the case of property of a defendant charged with
  a violation that is the basis for forfeiture of the property under this
  section, a proceeding for forfeiture under this section may be brought in
  the judicial district in which the defendant owning such property is found
  or in the judicial district in which the criminal prosecution is brought.
`Sec. 984. Criminal forfeiture relating to certain financial institution
violations
  `(a) Any person convicted of an offense under section 215, 656, 657,
  1005, 1007, 1014, or 1344 of this title affecting a federally insured
  financial institution, shall forfeit to the United States, irrespective
  of any provision of State law, any property constituting, or derived from,
  proceeds the person obtained directly or indirectly, as the result of such
  violation. The court, in imposing sentence on such person shall order,
  in addition to any other sentence imposed, that the person forfeit to the
  United States all property described in this section.
  `(b) Property subject to criminal forfeiture under this section includes--
  `(1) real property including things growing on, affixed to, and found in
  land; and
  `(2) tangible and intangible personal property, including rights, privileges,
  interest, claims and securities.
  `(c) All right, title and interest in property described in subsection
  (a) vests in the United States upon the commission of the act giving rise
  to forfeiture under this section. Any such property that is subsequently
  transferred to a person other than the defendant may be the subject of a
  special verdict of forfeiture and thereafter shall be ordered forfeited
  to the United States, unless the transferee establishes in a hearing
  pursuant to subsection (m) that he is a bona fide purchaser for value of
  such property who at the time of purchase was reasonably without cause to
  believe that the property was subject to forfeiture under this section.
  `(d)(1) Upon application of the United States, the court may enter a
  restraining order or injunction, require the execution of a satisfactory
  performance bond, or take any other action to preserve the availability
  of property described in subsection (a) for forfeiture under this section--
  `(A) upon the filing of an indictment or information charging a violation
  of section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006, 1007, 1014, or 1344 of this title and
  alleging that the property with respect to which the order is sought would,
  in the event of conviction, be subject to forfeiture under this section; or
  `(B) prior to the filing of such an indictment or information, if, after
  notice to persons appearing to have an interest in the property and
  opportunity for a hearing, the court determines that--
  `(i) there is a substantial probability that the United States will prevail
  on the issue of forfeiture and that failure to enter the order will result
  in the property being destroyed, removed from the jurisdiction of the court,
  or otherwise made unavailable for forfeiture; and
  `(ii) the need to preserve the availability of the property through the
  entry of the requested order outweighs the hardship on any party against
  whom the order is to be entered.
An order entered pursuant to this subparagraph (B) shall be effective for not
more than 90 days, unless extended by the court for good cause shown or unless
an indictment or information described in subparagraph (A) has been filed.
  `(2) A temporary restraining order under this subsection may be entered
  upon application of the United States without notice or opportunity for
  a hearing when an information or indictment has not yet been filed with
  respect to the property, if the United States demonstrates that there is
  probable cause to believe that the property with respect to which the order
  is sought would, in the event of conviction, be subject to forfeiture under
  this section and that provision of notice will jeopardize the availability
  of the property for forfeiture. Such a temporary order shall expire not
  more than 10 days after the date on which it is entered, unless extended for
  good cause shown or unless the party against whom it is entered consents to
  an extension for a longer period. A hearing requested concerning an order
  entered under this paragraph shall be held at the earliest possible time,
  and prior to the expiration of the temporary order.
  `(3) The court may receive and consider, at a hearing held pursuant to this
  subsection, evidence and information that would be inadmissible under the
  Federal Rules of Evidence.
  `(e) Upon conviction of a person under section 215, 656, 657, 1005, 1006,
  1007, 1014, or 1344 of this title, the court shall enter a judgment of
  forfeiture of the property to the United States and shall also authorize
  the Attorney General to seize all property ordered forfeited upon such
  terms and conditions as the court shall deem proper. Following the
  entry of an order declaring the property forfeited, the court may, upon
  application of the United States, enter such appropriate restraining orders
  or injunctions, require the execution of satisfactory performance bonds,
  appoint receivers, conservators, appraisers, accountants, or trustees,
  or take any other action to protect the interest of the United States in
  the property ordered forfeited. Any income accruing to, or derived from, an
  enterprise or an interest in an enterprise which has been ordered forfeited
  under this section may be used to offset ordinary and necessary expenses
  to the enterprise which are required by law, or which are necessary to
  protect the interests of the United States or third parties.
  `(f) Following the seizure of property ordered forfeited under this section,
  the Attorney General shall direct the disposition of the property by sale or
  any other commercially feasible means, making due provision for the rights
  of any innocent persons. Any property right or interest not exercisable
  by, or transferable for value to, the United States shall expire and shall
  not revert to the defendant, nor shall the defendant or any person acting
  in concert with or on behalf of the defendant be eligible to purchase
  forfeited property at any sale held by the United States. Upon application
  of a person, other than the defendant or a person acting in concert with
  or on behalf of the defendant, the court may restrain or stay the sale or
  disposition of the property pending the conclusion of any appeal of the
  criminal case giving rise to the forfeiture, if the applicant demonstrates
  that proceeding with the sale or disposition of the property will result
  in irreparable injury, harm or loss to him.
  `(g) With respect to property ordered forfeited under this section, the
  Attorney General is authorized to--
  `(1) grant petitions for mitigation or remission of forfeiture, restore
  forfeited property to victims of the violation, or take any other action
  to protect the rights of innocent persons which is in the interest of
  justice and which is not inconsistent with the provisions of this section;
  `(2) compromise claims arising under this section;
  `(3) award compensation to persons providing information resulting in a
  forfeiture under this section;
  `(4) direct the disposition by the United States of all property ordered
  forfeited under this section, making due provision for the rights of
  innocent persons; and
  `(5) take appropriate measures necessary to safeguard and maintain property
  ordered forfeited under this section pending its disposition.
  `(h) Except to the extent that they are inconsistent with the provisions
  of this section, the provisions of sections 983(d) and 983(e) of this
  title shall apply to a criminal forfeiture under this section.
  `(i) Except as provided in subsection (m) of this section, no party claiming
  an interest in property subject to forfeiture under this section may--
  `(1) intervene in a trial or appeal of a criminal case involving the
  forfeiture of such property under this section; or
  `(2) commence an action at law or equity against the United States concerning
  the validity of his alleged interest in the property subsequent to the
  filing of an indictment or information alleging that the property is
  subject to forfeiture under this section.
  `(j) The district court of the United States shall have jurisdiction to
  enter orders as provided in this section without regard to the location
  of any property which may be subject to forfeiture under this section or
  which has been ordered forfeited under this section.
  `(k) In order to facilitate the identification and location of property
  declared forfeited and to facilitate the disposition of petitions for
  remission or mitigation of forfeiture, after the entry of an order declaring
  property forfeited to the United States, the court may, upon application of
  the United States, order that the testimony of any witness relating to the
  property forfeited be taken by deposition and that any designated book,
  paper, document, record, recording, or other material not privileged be
  produced at the same time and place, in the same manner as provided for
  the taking of depositions under Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
  Procedure.
  `(l)(1) Following the entry of an order of forfeiture under this section,
  the United States shall publish notice of the order and of its intent
  to dispose of the property in such manner as the Attorney General may
  direct. The Government may also, to the extent practicable, provide direct
  written notice to any person known to have alleged an interest in the
  property that is the subject of the order of forfeiture as a substitute
  for published notice as to those persons so notified.
  `(2) Any person, other than the defendant, asserting a legal interest in
  property which has been ordered forfeited to the United States pursuant to
  this section may, within 30 days of the final publication of notice or his
  receipt of notice under paragraph (1), whichever is earlier, petition the
  court for a hearing to adjudicate the validity of his alleged interest in the
  property. The hearing shall be held before the court alone, without a jury.
  `(3) The petition shall be signed by the petitioner under penalty of perjury
  and shall set forth the nature and extent of the petitioner's right, title,
  or interest in the property, the time and circumstances of the petitioner's
  acquisition of the right, title, or interest in the property, any additional
  facts supporting the petitioner's claim, and the relief sought.
  `(4) The hearing on the petition shall, to the extent practicable and
  consistent with the interests of justice, be held within 30 days of
  the filing of the petition. The court may consolidate the hearing on the
  petition with a hearing on any other petition filed by a person other than
  the defendant under this subsection.
  `(5) At the hearing, the petitioner may testify and present evidence and
  witnesses on his own behalf, and cross-examine witnesses who appear at the
  hearing. The United States may present evidence and witnesses in rebuttal
  and in defense of its claim to the property and cross-examine witnesses who
  appear at the hearing. In addition to testimony and evidence presented at
  the hearing, the court shall consider the relevant portions of the record
  of the criminal case which resulted in the order of forfeiture.
  `(6) If, after the hearing, the court determines that the petitioner has
  established by a preponderance of the evidence that--
  `(A) the petitioner has a legal right, title, or interest in the property,
  and such right, title, or interest renders the order of forfeiture invalid
  in whole or in part because the right, title, or interest was vested in the
  petitioner rather than the defendant or was superior to any right, title,
  or interest of the defendant at the time of the commission of the acts
  which gave right to the forfeiture of the property under this section; or
  `(B) the petitioner is a bona fide purchaser for value of the right, title,
  or interest in the property and was at the time of the purchase reasonably
  without cause to believe that the property was subject to forfeiture under
  this section, the court shall amend the order of forfeiture in accordance
  with its determination.
  `(7) Following the court's disposition of all petitions filed under this
  subsection, or if no such petitions are filed following the expiration
  of the period provided in paragraph (2) for the filing of such petitions,
  the United States shall have clear title to property that is the subject
  of the order of forfeiture and may warrant good title to any subsequent
  purchaser or transferee.
  `(m) If any of the property described in subsection (a) of this section,
  as a result of any act or omission of the defendant--
  `(1) cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence;
  `(2) has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party;
  `(3) has been placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court;
  `(4) has been substantially diminished in value; or
  `(5) has been commingled with other property which cannot be divided
  without difficulty;
the court shall order the forfeiture of any of the property of the defendant
up to the value of any property described in paragraph (1) through (5).'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The analysis of chapter 46, United States Code,
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
`983. Civil forfeiture relating to certain financial institution violations.
`984. Criminal forfeiture relating to certain financial institution
violations.'.
SEC. 1004. GRAND JURY AMENDMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Paragraphs (A), (B), and (C) of rule 6(e)(3) of the Federal
  Rules of Criminal Procedure are amended to read as follows:
  `(A) Disclosure otherwise prohibited by this rule of matters occurring
  before the grand jury, other than its deliberations and the vote of any
  grand juror, may be made to--
  `(i) any attorney for the government for use in the attorney's performance
  of the government's duty to enforce Federal criminal or civil law; and
  `(ii) such government personnel (including personnel of a State or
  subdivision of a State) as are deemed necessary by an attorney for the
  government to assist an attorney for the government in the performance of
  such attorney's duty to enforce Federal criminal law.
  `(B) Any person to whom matters are disclosed under subparagraph (A)(ii) of
  this paragraph shall not utilize that grand jury material for any purpose
  other than assisting an attorney for the government in the performance of
  such attorney's duty to enforce Federal criminal or civil law. An attorney
  for the government shall promptly provide the district court, before which
  was impaneled the grand jury whose material has been so disclosed, with
  the names of the persons to whom such disclosure has been made, and shall
  certify that the attorney has advised such persons of their obligation of
  secrecy under this rule.
  `(C) Disclosure otherwise prohibited by this rule of matters occurring
  before the grand jury may also be made--
  `(i) when so directed by a court, upon a showing of particularized need,
  preliminarily to or in connection with a judicial proceeding;
  `(ii) when permitted by a court at the request of the defendant, upon
  a showing that grounds may exist for a motion to dismiss the indictment
  because of matters occurring before the grand jury;
  `(iii) when the disclosure is made by an attorney for the government to
  another Federal grand jury;
  `(iv) when permitted by a court at the request of an attorney for the
  government, upon a showing that such matters may disclose a violation of
  State criminal law, to an appropriate official of a State or subdivision
  of a State for the purpose of enforcing such law; or
  `(v) at the request of an attorney for the government, and when so
  permitted by a court upon a showing of substantial need, to personnel of
  any department or agency of the United States (a) when such personnel are
  deemed necessary to provide assistance to an attorney for the government
  in the performance of such attorney's duty to enforce Federal civil law,
  or (b) for use in relation to any matter within the jurisdiction of such
  department or agency.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The first sentence of paragraph (D) of rule 6(e)(3)
  of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure is amended to read as follows:
  `(D) A petition for disclosure pursuant to subdivision (e)(3)(C)(i) or
  (v) shall be filed in the district where the grand jury convened.'.
  (c) FAIR CREDIT REPORTING ACT- Paragraph (1) of section 604 of the Fair
  Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681b) is amended by inserting before the
  period at the end the following: `, or a subpoena issued in connection
  with proceedings before a Federal grand jury'.
SEC. 1005. LITIGATION AUTHORITY.
  Nothing in this Act may be construed as impairing or diminishing the
  authority of the Attorney General under section 516 of title 28, United
  States Code, to conduct and coordinate litigation on behalf of the United
  States Government.
SEC. 1006. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE APPROPRIATION.
  There are authorized to be appropriated, to appropriations under control of
  the Attorney General, $50,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1989, 1990,
  and 1991, for the purpose of conducting investigations, prosecutions,
  and civil proceedings involving financial institutions subject to the
  provisions of this Act. Such funds shall remain available to the Attorney
  General without fiscal year limitation.
TITLE XI--FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION
SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Transition Act'.
SEC. 1102. PURPOSE.
  The purposes of this title are--
  (1) to provide stability in the secondary market for home mortgages,
  (2) to provide that the operations of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation respond appropriately to the private capital market, and
  (3) to ensure that the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation continues to
  provide supplementary assistance to the secondary market for home mortgages
  by providing a degree of liquidity for mortgage investments thereby improving
  the distribution of investment capital available for home mortgage financing.
SEC. 1103. TRANSITION OF BOARD.
  (a) NEW BOARD- Section 303(a) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Act is amended to read as follows:
  `(a)(1) There is created the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation,
  which shall be a body corporate and shall be under the direction of
  a Board of Directors. Within the limitations of law and regulation,
  the Board of Directors shall determine the general policies which shall
  govern the operations of the Corporation. The principal office of the
  Corporation shall be in the District of Columbia or at such other place
  as the Corporation may from time to time prescribe.
  `(2) The Corporation shall have a Board of Directors which shall consist
  of 18 persons, 5 of whom shall be appointed annually by the President of
  the United States, and the remainder of whom shall be elected annually by
  the voting common stockholders. The Board of Directors shall at all times
  have as members appointed by the President of the United States at least
  one person from the homebuilding industry, at least one person from the
  mortgage lending industry, and at least one person from the real estate
  industry. Each member of the Board of Directors shall be appointed or
  elected for a term ending on the date of the next annual meeting of the
  voting common stockholders, except that any such member may be removed
  from office by the President of the United States for good cause. Any
  appointive seat which becomes vacant shall be filled by appointment of
  the President of the United States, but only for the unexpired portion
  of the term. Any elective seat on the Board of Directors which becomes
  vacant after the annual election of the directors shall be filled by the
  Board of Directors, but only for the unexpired portion of the term. Any
  member of the Board of Directors who is a full-time officer or employee
  of the Federal Government shall not, as such member, receive compensation
  for services as such a member.'.
  (b) TRANSITIONAL PROVISION- There shall be an interim Board of Directors of
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation which shall serve from the date
  of enactment of this section until the date of the first meeting of the
  voting common shareholders of the Corporation at which the first election
  of the directors elected by the shareholders occurs. The interim Board of
  Directors shall consist of the President of the Corporation, the persons
  who were, on the day prior to the date of enactment of this section, the
  Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, or his or her designee,
  and the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
  or his or her designee. A quorum of the interim Board of Directors shall
  consist of a majority of the directors duly serving from time to time. The
  first meeting for election of directors shall occur, under such procedures
  as shall be specified by the Corporation, within 6 months following the
  date of enactment of this section.
SEC. 1104. REGULATORY POWER.
  Section 303 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act is amended--
  (1) by redesignating sections (b) through (f) as sections (c) through (g)
  respectively, and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
  `(b)(1) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall have general
  regulatory power over the Corporation, and shall make such rules and
  regulations as shall be necessary and proper to ensure that the purposes
  of this title are accomplished. The Secretary may require that a reasonable
  portion of the Corporation's mortgage purchases be related to the national
  goal of providing adequate housing for low- and moderate-income families,
  but with reasonable economic return to the Corporation. In any one fiscal
  year, the aggregate amount of cash dividends paid by the Corporation
  on account of any share of its common stock shall not exceed any rate
  which may be determined from time to time by the Secretary to be a fair
  rate of return after consideration of the current earnings and capital
  condition of the Corporation. The Secretary may examine and audit the
  books and financial transactions of the Corporation, and the Secretary
  may require the Corporation to make such reports on its activities as he
  deems advisable. Pursuant to the authority provided in this subsection,
  the Secretary shall, not later than June 30 of each year, report to the
  Congress on the activities of the Corporation under this title.
  `(2) The aggregate amount of notes, debentures, or substantially identical
  types of unsecured obligations of the Corporation evidencing money
  borrowed outstanding at any one time shall not exceed 15 times the sum of
  the Corporation's capital, capital surplus, general surplus, reserves, and
  undistributed earnings unless a greater ratio shall be fixed at any time or
  from time to time by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. The
  outstanding total principal amount of any obligations of the Corporation
  which are entirely subordinated to the general debt obligations of the
  Corporation shall be deemed to be capital of the Corporation for the purpose
  of determining the aggregate amount of notes, debentures, or substantially
  identical types of unsecured obligations which may be outstanding at any
  one time.
  `(3) All issuances of stock, and debt obligations convertible into stock,
  by the Corporation shall be made only with the approval of the Secretary
  of Housing and Urban Development.
  `(4) The exercise of the Corporation's authority pursuant to commitments or
  otherwise to purchase, service, sell, lend on the security of or otherwise
  deal in conventional residential mortgages under section 305(a) of this
  title is subject to the approval of the Secretary of Housing and Urban
  Development. Any conventional mortgage programs or activities with respect
  to purchasing, servicing, selling, lending on the security of or otherwise
  dealing in mortgages in which the Corporation has engaged or is engaging
  as of the effective date of this subsection shall be deemed to have been
  approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development as required by
  this subsection.
  `(5) If the Corporation submits to the Secretary of Housing and Urban
  Development a request for approval or other action under this title, the
  Secretary shall, not later than the expiration of the 45-day period following
  the submission of such request, approve such request or transmit to the
  Congress a report explaining why such request has not been approved. Such
  period may be extended for an additional 15-day period if the Secretary
  requests additional information from the Corporation, but such 45-day period
  may not be extended for any other reason or for any period in addition
  to or other than such 15-day period. If the Secretary fails to transmit
  such report to the Congress within such 45-day period or 60-day period,
  as the case may be, the Corporation may proceed as if such request had
  been approved.'.
SEC. 1105. COMMON STOCK.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 304(a) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Act is amended to read as follows:
  `(a)(1) The common stock of the Corporation shall consist of--
  `(A) nonvoting common stock, which shall be issued only to Federal home
  loan banks, and
  `(B) voting common stock, which shall be issued to such holders, in such
  manner and amount, and subject to such limitations on concentration of
  ownership, as the Corporation prescribes.
  `(2) The nonvoting common stock and the voting common stock shall have such
  par value and such other characteristics as the Corporation prescribes. The
  voting common stock shall be vested with all voting rights, each share
  being entitled to one vote. The free transferability of the voting common
  stock at all times to any person, firm, corporation or other entity
  shall not be restricted except that, as to the Corporation, it shall
  be transferable only on the books of the Corporation. Nonvoting common
  stock of the Corporation shall be evidenced in such manner and shall be
  transferable only to such extent, to such transferees, and in such manner,
  as the Corporation prescribes.'.
  (b) CONVERSION OF STOCK- On the date of enactment of this Act, each share
  of outstanding senior participating preferred stock of the Federal Home
  Loan Mortgage Corporation, with a par value of $2.50 per share, shall
  be changed into and shall become one share of voting common stock of
  the Corporation. Such voting common stock shall, with respect to the
  nonvoting common stock of the Corporation, retain all of the rights,
  priorities and privileges of the senior participating preferred stock and
  the transformation of the senior participating preferred stock into voting
  common stock accomplished by this subsection shall be deemed to satisfy
  the Corporation's obligation to redeem senior participating preferred
  stock for non-callable common stock.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 304(b) of the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation Act is amended by inserting `nonvoting' before `common'.
  (2) Section 304(c) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act is
  amended by striking `such' and by inserting `nonvoting common' before the
  word `stock'.
  (3) Section 304(d) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act is
  amended by inserting `nonvoting common' before `stock' each time it appears.
SEC. 1106. FEES.
  Section 305(a)(1) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act is
  amended by adding at the end thereof: `Nothing in this section authorizes
  the Corporation to impose any charge or fee upon any mortgagee approved by
  the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for participation in any
  mortgage insurance program under the National Housing Act solely because
  of such status'.
SEC. 1107. STANDBY CREDIT.
  Section 306(c) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act is amended
  to read as follows:
  `(c) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized in his or her discretion to
  purchase any obligations issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
  as now or hereafter in force, and for such purpose the Secretary of the
  Treasury is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds of
  the sale of any securities hereafter issued under chapter 31 of title 31,
  United States Code, and the purposes for which securities may be issued
  under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, are extended to include
  such purposes. The Secretary of Treasury shall not at any time purchase
  any obligations under this subsection if such purchase would increase
  the aggregate principal amount of his then outstanding holdings of such
  obligations under this subsection to an amount greater than $2,250,000,000,
  and such purchases may be made only to such extent or in such amounts as
  are approved in appropriation Acts. Each purchase of obligations by the
  Secretary of the Treasury under this subsection shall be upon such terms
  and conditions as to yield a return at a rate determined by the Secretary
  of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average rate on
  outstanding marketable obligations of the United States as of the last
  day of the month preceding the making of such purchase. The Secretary of
  the Treasury may, at any time, sell, upon such terms and conditions and at
  such price or prices as he shall determine, any of the obligations acquired
  by him under this subsection. All redemptions, purchases and sales by the
  Secretary of the Treasury of such obligations under this subsection shall
  be treated as public debt transactions of the United States.'.
SEC. 1108. TERMS OF OBLIGATIONS.
  Section 306 of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
  `(j) Any notes, debentures, or substantially identical types of unsecured
  obligations of the Corporation evidencing money borrowed, whether general
  or subordinated, shall be issued upon the approval of the Secretary of
  the Treasury and shall have such maturities and bear such rate or rates of
  interest as may be determined by the Corporation with the approval of the
  Secretary of the Treasury. Any notes, debentures, of substantially identical
  types of unsecured obligations of the Corporation having maturities of
  one year or less which the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of the
  effective date of this subsection shall be deemed to have been approved
  by the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this subsection. The
  Secretary of the Treasury, upon reasonable notice to the Corporation, may
  revoke any approval as to issuance or as to maturity or rate with respect
  to securities having maturities of one year or less. Any notes, debentures,
  or substantially identical types of unsecured obligations of the Corporation
  having maturities of more than one year which the Corporation has issued
  or is issuing as of the effective date of this subsection shall be deemed
  to have been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury as required by this
  subsection. Such deemed approval shall expire 60 days following enactment
  of this subsection.
  `(k) Any securities in the form of debt obligations or trust certificates of
  beneficial interest, or both, and based upon mortgages held and set aside
  by the Corporation shall be issued upon the approval of the Secretary
  of the Treasury and shall have such maturities and shall bear such rate
  or rates of interest as may be determined by the Corporation with the
  approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. Any securities in the form of
  debt obligations or trust certificates of beneficial interest, or both,
  and based upon mortgages held and set aside by the Corporation, which
  the Corporation has issued or is issuing as of the effective date of this
  subsection shall be deemed to have been approved by the Secretary of the
  Treasury as required by this subsection.'.
SEC. 1109. COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORITY- Section 305(a) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
  Act is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(5) The Corporation is authorized to lend on the security of, and to make
  commitments to lend on the security of, any mortgage which it is authorized
  to purchase under this section. The volume of the Corporation's lending
  activities and the establishment of its loan ratios, interest rates,
  maturities, and charges or fees, in its operations under this paragraph,
  should be determined by the Corporation from time to time; and such
  determinations should be consistent with the objectives that the lending
  activities should be conducted on such terms as will reasonably prevent
  excessive use of the Corporation's facilities, and that the operations of
  the Corporation under this paragraph should be within its income derived from
  such operations and that such operations should be fully self-supporting. The
  Corporation shall not be permitted to use its lending authority under this
  paragraph (i) to advance funds to a mortgage seller on an interim basis,
  using mortgages as collateral, pending the sale of the mortgages in the
  secondary market, or (ii) to originate mortgage loans. Notwithstanding any
  Federal, State, or other law to the contrary, the Corporation is hereby
  empowered in connection with any loan under this paragraph, whether before
  or after any default, to provide by contract with the borrower for the
  settlement or extinguishment, upon default, of any redemption, equitable,
  legal, or other right, title, or interest of the borrower in any mortgage
  or mortgages that constitute the security for the loan; and with respect
  to any such loan, in the event of default and pursuant otherwise to the
  terms of the contract, the mortgages that constitute such security shall
  become the absolute property of the Corporation.'.
  (b) LIMITATION- Section 304(a)(2) of the Federal National Mortgage
  Association Charter Act is amended by deleting the first and second sentences
  and adding the following after the third sentence: `The Corporation shall
  not be permitted to use its lending authority (i) to advance funds to a
  mortgage seller or originator on an interim basis, using mortgage loans
  as collateral, pending the sale of the mortgages in the secondary market,
  or (ii) to originate mortgage loans.'.
TITLE XII--PARTICIPATION BY STATE HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITIES AND NONPROFIT
ENTITIES
SEC. 1201. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this title--
  (1) The term `State housing finance authority' means any public agency,
  authority, corporation, or other instrumentality of a State or political
  subdivision thereof which functions as a source or residential mortgage
  loan financing in any such State or as a public housing agency.
  (2) The term `nonprofit entity' means any not-for-profit corporation
  chartered under State law (including any nonprofit entity established
  by the corporation established under title IX of the Housing and Urban
  Development Act of 1968).
  (3) The term `mortgage related assets' means (A) residential mortgage
  loans secured by one-to-four family or multi-family dwellings, and (B)
  real property improved with one-to-four family or multi-family residential
  dwellings, in all such cases located within the jurisdiction of the
  applicable State housing finance authority.
  (4) The term `net income' shall mean income after deduction of all
  associated expenses calculated in accordance with generally accepted
  accounting principles.
SEC. 1202. STATE HOUSING FINANCE AUTHORITY AND NONPROFIT ENTITY AUTHORIZATION.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, State or Federal, or
  the constitution of any State, State housing finance authorities and
  nonprofit entities are authorized to purchase mortgage related assets
  from the Resolution Trust Corporation or from financial institutions with
  respect to which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is acting as a
  receiver or conservator (including the assets associated with any trust
  business), any contract for such purchase to be effective in accordance
  with its terms without any further approval, assignment, or consent with
  respect thereto. Any State housing finance authority or nonprofit entity
  purchasing mortgage related assets hereunder shall be required to invest
  net income attributable to the ownership of such assets in the financing,
  refinancing, or rehabilitation of low and moderate income housing within the
  jurisdiction of any such State housing finance authority or nonprofit entity.
TITLE XIII--STUDY OF FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND BANKING REGULATION
SEC. 1301. STUDY.
  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Comptroller
  of the Currency, the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal
  Reserve System, the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations, the
  Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Chairman of the
  National Credit Union Administration Board, and the Director of the Office
  of Management and the Budget, shall conduct a study of the Federal deposit
  insurance system, including an appropriate structure for the offering of
  competitive products and services to consumers consistent with standards
  of safety and soundness.
SEC. 1302. TOPICS.
  As part of such study, the Secretary shall investigate, review and evaluate--
  (1) risk and rate structure for deposit insurance;
  (2) incentives for market discipline, including supplementary private
  insurance;
  (3) the scope of deposit insurance coverage and its impact on the
  liability of the insurance fund, including consideration of making the
  large depositor a coinsurer of a portion of the deposit exceeding $10,000
  but less than $100,000;
  (4) the feasibility of market value accounting, assessments on foreign
  deposits, limitations on brokered deposits, the addition of collateralized
  borrowings to the deposit insurance base, and multiple insured accounts;
  (5) policies to be followed with respect to the recapitalization or closure
  of insured depositories whose capital is depleted to or near the point
  of, insolvency;
  (6) the feasibility of developing and administering, through the appropriate
  Federal banking agency, an examination on the principles and techniques
  of risk management and their application to the management of insured
  institutions;
  (7) the efficiency of housing subsidies through the Federal Home Loan Bank
  System; and
  (8) the adequacy of capital of insured credit unions and the National
  Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, including whether the supervision of
  that fund should be separated from the other functions of the National
  Credit Union Administration.
SEC. 1303. FINAL REPORT.
  The Secretary shall submit to Congress within 18 months from the date
  of enactment of this Act, a final report which shall contain a detailed
  statement of findings and conclusions, including recommendations for such
  administrative and legislative actions as the Secretary deems advisable.
TITLE XIV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 1401. GAO STUDY OF CREDIT UNION SYSTEM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct
  a comprehensive study of the Nation's credit union system. In conducting
  the study, the Comptroller General shall examine--
  (1) credit unions' present and future role in the financial marketplace,
  (2) the financial condition of credit unions,
  (3) credit union capital,
  (4) credit union regulation and supervision on both the Federal and
  State levels,
  (5) the credit union common bond,
  (6) the structure and financial condition of the National Credit Union
  Share Insurance Fund, including whether supervision of that Fund should
  be separated from the other functions of the National Credit Union
  Administration Board; and
  (7) such other matters as the Comptroller General deems appropriate.
Comparative information with other types of financial institutions should
be included.
  (b) SUBMISSION- Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Banking,
  Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee
  on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a final report which
  shall contain a detailed statement of findings and conclusions, including
  recommendations for such administrative and legislative action as the
  Comptroller General deems advisable.
SEC. 1402. CREDIT UNION REGULATOR SALARIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 120(i)(1) of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
  U.S.C. 1766(i)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting a comma after `personnel'; and
  (2) by inserting after `functions' the following: `, who shall be paid
  such compensation as shall be determined by the Board without regard to
  the provisions of any law or regulation (including, but not limited to,
  provisions of title 5, United States Code, relating to Federal employee
  and officer compensation)'.
  (b) TREATMENT OF FUNDS- Section 120 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12
  U.S.C. 1766) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(j) In setting and adjusting compensation under subsection (i)(1), the
  Board shall consult and seek to maintain comparability with the compensation
  at the other Federal bank regulatory agencies and shall report thereon
  to the Congress. The salaries and expenses of the Board and its employees
  shall be paid from fees and assessments (including income earned on insured
  deposits) levied on credit unions under the Federal Credit Union Act, and
  such fees and assessments shall not be construed to be government monies
  or appropriated monies, or subject to apportionment for the purposes of
  title 31 or any other authority.'.
SEC. 1403. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 203 OF THE FEDERAL CREDIT UNION ACT.
  Section 203 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1783) is amended
  by striking `deposits and' in paragraph (b).
SEC. 1404. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 5240 OF THE REVISED STATUTES.
  Section 5240 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 482) is amended--
  (1) by striking the first sentence of the third paragraph;
  (2) by inserting in lieu thereof the following: `The Comptroller of
  the Currency may fix the compensation of employees of the Office of
  the Comptroller of the Currency and shall make a report thereof to the
  Congress. Such compensation shall be determined by the Comptroller without
  regard to the provisions of any law or regulation (including, but not limited
  to, provisions of title 5, United States Code, relating to Federal employee
  and officer compensation). In setting and adjusting such compensation,
  the Comptroller shall consult and seek to maintain comparability with the
  compensation at the other Federal bank regulatory agencies.'; and
  `(3) by adding at the end the following:
  `Whenever the Comptroller submits any budget estimate or request to
  the President or the Office of Management and Budget, the Comptroller
  shall concurrently transmit copies of that estimate or request to the
  Congress. Whenever the Comptroller transmits any legislative recommendations,
  or testimony, or comments on legislation to the President or the Office
  of Management and Budget, it shall concurrently transmit copies thereof
  to the Congress. No officer or agency of the United States shall have any
  authority to require the Comptroller to submit legislative recommendations,
  or testimony, or comments on legislation to any officer or agency of the
  United States for approval, comments, or review, prior to the submission of
  such recommendations, testimony, or comments to the Congress. In instances
  in which the Comptroller voluntarily seeks to obtain the comments or review
  of any officer or agency of the United States, the Comptroller shall include
  a description of such actions in legislative recommendations, testimony,
  or comments on legislation which is transmitted to the Congress.'.
SEC. 1405. GAO AUDIT OF ALL ORGANIZATIONS CARRYING OUT FUNCTIONS UNDER THE ACT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- All agencies, corporations, organizations, and other entities
  of any description which perform any functions or activities under this Act
  (including its amendments to other laws) shall be subject to audit by the
  Comptroller General of the United States with respect to such functions
  or activities. All persons and organizations which, by contract, grant,
  or otherwise, provide goods or services to or receive financial assistance
  from any entity performing functions of activities under this Act shall be
  subject to audit by the Comptroller General with respect to such provision
  of goods or services or receipt of financial assistance.
  (b) AUTHORITY OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL- The Comptroller General shall determine
  the nature, scope, terms, and conditions of audits conducted under this
  section. The Comptroller General's authority under this section shall be
  in addition to any audit authority available to the Comptroller General
  under other provisions of this Act or any other law.
  (c) ACCESS TO BOOKS AND RECORDS- The Comptroller General and any duly
  authorized representatives shall have access to and the right to examine
  and copy all records and other recorded information in any form, and
  to examine any property, within the agencies, boards, corporations,
  and other organizations subject to audit under this section, where the
  Comptroller General deems relevant to an audit conducted under this
  section. The Comptroller General's right of access to information under
  this section shall be enforceable pursuant to section 716 of title 31,
  United States Code. The provisions of section 716(e) of such title shall
  apply to information obtained by the Comptroller General under this section.
SEC. 1406. REPORT ON LOAN DISCRIMINATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Comptroller of the
  Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration
  Board, and the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations, shall each
  transmit to the Congress a report containing--
  (1) findings, based on a review of currently available loan acceptance and
  rejection statistics, on the extent of discriminatory lending practices
  by mortgage lenders subject to regulation or supervision by such agency; and
  (2) recommendations for appropriate measures to assure nondiscriminatory
  lending practices.
  (b) SCOPE OF HUD REPORT- The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
  may exclude from the report under subsection (a) any data pertaining to
  mortgage lenders which are approved mortgagees under title II of the
  National Housing Act if data pertaining to such lenders is or will be
  included in the other reports under such subsection.
SEC. 1407. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of this Act, the following Executive Order
  11478, providing for equal employment opportunity in the Federal Government,
  shall apply to--
  (1) the Comptroller of the Currency;
  (2) the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations;
  (3) the Federal Home Loan Banks;
  (4) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
  (5) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
  (6) the Federal National Mortgage Association;
  (7) the Resolution Trust Corporation; and
  (8) the Resolution Finance Corporation.
  (b) SOLICITATION OF CONTRACTS- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
  the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairman of the Office of Savings
  Associations, the Federal Home Loan Bank Agency, the Resolution Finance
  Corporation, and the Resolution Trust Corporation shall establish programs
  which solicit businesses with majority ownership by minorities or women
  and provide these businesses with an opportunity for participation in the
  procurement program of each such agency. The Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation and the Federal National Mortgage Association are encouraged
  to establish policies and goals to foster participation in their respective
  procurement programs by such businesses.
SEC. 1408. ANNUAL REPORT ON THE CONDITION OF THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
FUNDS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- On or before January 31 of each year commencing on January
  31, 1990, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall deliver a detailed
  written report and analysis to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban
  Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
  Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate--
  (1) the current financial condition of the Bank Insurance Fund and the
  Savings Association Insurance Fund;
  (2) the current level of the Economic Factors;
  (3) the exposure of each insurance fund to insured losses if no changes
  occur in the Economic Factors;
  (4) the exposure of each insurance fund to insured losses under reasonably
  possible changes in each of the Economic Factors, including worst case
  reasonably possible scenarios for each individual factor and an aggregate
  worst case reasonably possible scenario for all factors combined; and
  (5) background information on historic levels and variations in each of
  the Economic Factors to substantiate the reasonableness of the scenarios
  presented.
  (b) ECONOMIC FACTORS- For purposes of this section, the Economic Factors
  shall include the following factors:
  (1) the general level of interest rates;
  (2) the general volatility of interest rates;
  (3) the shape of the yield curve for United States Treasury obligations;
  (4) the spread relationship between interest rates paid on United States
  Treasury obligations and interest rates paid on obligations of insured
  financial institutions;
  (5) the default rate on outstanding loans held by insured financial
  institutions; and
  (6) the rate of prepayments on fixed and variable rate loans held by
  insured financial institutions.
SEC. 1409. CAPITAL AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS.
  Within one year from the date of enactment of the FIRRE Act, the appropriate
  Federal banking agencies, as defined in section 8 of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act, shall establish uniform accounting standards to be used
  for determining the capital ratios of all federally insured financial
  institutions and for other regulatory purposes. Each Federal banking
  agency must report annually to the Chairman and ranking minority member
  of the Senate and House Banking Committees any differences between the
  capital standard used by such agency and capital standards used by other
  agencies. This report shall contain an explanation of the reasons for the
  discrepancies in such capital standards, and shall be published in the
  Federal Register.
SEC. 1410. CROSS-MARKETING RESTRICTIONS.
  Section 4(f)(3)(B)(ii) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12
  U.S.C. 1843(f)(3)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking `by or through an affiliate
  (other than an affiliate that engages only in activities permissible for bank
  holding companies under subsection (c)(8))' and inserting `in connection
  with products and services of an affiliate that are not permissible for
  a bank holding company to provide under subsection (c)(8)'.
SEC. 1411. ESTABLISHMENT OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE FEDERAL FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council Act of
  1978 (12 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 1010. APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There shall be established within the Council a
  subcommittee to be known as the `Appraisal Subcommittee', which shall
  consist of the designees of the heads of the Federal financial institutions
  regulatory agencies. Each such designee shall be a person who has
  demonstrated knowledge and competence concerning the appraisal profession.
  `(b) FUNCTIONS OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Appraisal Subcommittee shall--
  `(A) monitor the requirements established by States for the certification
  and licensing of persons who are qualified to perform appraisals in
  connection with federally related transactions, including codes of
  professional responsibility;
  `(B) monitor the requirements established by the Federal financial
  institutions regulatory agencies, the Federal National Mortgage Association,
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Resolution Trust
  Corporation with respect to--
  `(i) appraisal standards for federally related transactions under their
  jurisdiction, and
  `(ii) determinations as to which federally related transactions under
  their jurisdiction require the services of a State certified appraiser
  and which require the services of a State licensed appraiser;
  `(C) maintain a national registry of State certified and licensed appraisers
  who are eligible to perform appraisals in federally related transactions; and
  `(D) transmit an annual report to the Congress not later than January 31
  of each year which describes the manner in which each function assigned
  to the Appraisal Subcommittee has been carried out during the preceding year.
  `(2) MONITORING AND REVIEWING FOUNDATION- The Appraisal Subcommittee shall
  monitor and review the practices, procedures, activities, and organizational
  structure of the Appraisal Foundation.
  `(c) CHAIRMANSHIP OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE; TERM OF CHAIRMAN; MEETINGS-
  `(1) CHAIRMAN- The Council shall elect the Chairman of the Subcommittee. The
  term of the Chairman shall be 2 years.
  `(2) MEETINGS; QUORUM; VOTING- The Appraisal Subcommittee shall meet at
  the call of the Chairman or a majority of its members so often as there
  is business to be conducted. A majority of the members of the Appraisal
  Subcommittee shall constitute a quorum but 2 or more members may hold
  hearings. Decisions of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall be made by a vote
  of a majority of its members.
  `(d) OFFICERS AND STAFF- The Chairman of the Appraisal Subcommittee shall,
  subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, relating to
  the competitive service, classification and General Schedule pay rates,
  appoint such officers and staff as may be necessary to carry out the
  functions under this section.
  `(e) POWERS OF APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE- The Appraisal Subcommittee may, for
  the purpose of carrying out this section, establish advisory committees,
  hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, receive
  evidence, provide information, and perform research, as the Appraisal
  Subcommittee considers appropriate.
  `(f) PROCEDURES FOR ESTABLISHING APPRAISAL STANDARDS AND REQUIRING THE USE
  OF CERTIFIED AND LICENSED APPRAISERS- Appraisal standards and requirements
  for using State certified and licensed appraisers pursuant to this section
  shall be prescribed in accordance with procedures set forth in section
  553 of title 5, United States Code, including the publication of notice
  and receipt of written comments or the holding of public hearings with
  respect to any standards or requirements proposed to be established.
  `(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For purposes of this section, there
  are authorized to be appropriated to the Appraisal Subcommittee a one-time
  payment of $5,000,000 for the 24-month period beginning on the date of
  the enactment of this section. Thereafter, expenses of the Subcommittee
  shall be funded through the collection of registration fees from certain
  certified and licensed appraisers pursuant to subsection (h).
  `(h) AUTHORITY TO COLLECT FEES-
  `(1) COLLECTION OF FEES- The Appraisal Subcommittee may collect from each
  person who receives a State certification or license in accordance with
  this section and who seeks to perform appraisals in federally related
  transactions an annual registration fee of not more than $25.
  `(2) USE OF AMOUNTS APPROPRIATED OR COLLECTED- Amounts appropriated for
  or collected by the Appraisal Subcommittee under this section shall be used--
  `(A) to maintain a registry of persons who are qualified and eligible to
  perform appraisals in connection with federally related transactions;
  `(B) to support activities under this section;
  `(C) to reimburse the general fund of the Treasury for amounts appropriated
  to and expended by the Appraisal Subcommittee during the 24-month startup
  period following the date of the enactment of this section; and
  `(D) to make grants in such amounts as it deems appropriate to the Appraisal
  Foundation to help defray those costs of the Foundation relating to the
  activities of its Appraisal Standards and Appraiser Qualification Boards.
  `(3) ADJUSTMENTS- Subject to the approval of the Council, the Appraisal
  Subcommittee may adjust the dollar amount of registration fees as necessary
  to carry out its functions under this section.
  `(i) APPRAISAL REFORM FUNCTIONS OF THE FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
  REGULATORY AGENCIES- Each Federal financial institutions regulatory agency,
  the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation, and the Resolution Trust Corporation, shall issue rules--
  `(1) prescribing appropriate standards for the performance of real estate
  appraisals in connection with federally related transactions under the
  jurisdiction of each such agency or instrumentality. These rules shall
  require, at a minimum, that real estate appraisals be performed in accordance
  with generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the appraisal
  standards promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal
  Foundation. Each such agency or instrumentality may require compliance
  with additional standards if it makes a determination in writing that
  such additional standards are required in order to properly carry out its
  statutory responsibilities; and
  `(2) in accordance with section 1111 of this section, prescribing which
  categories of real estate related financial transactions shall be appraised
  by a State certified appraiser and which by a State licensed appraiser
  under this section.
  `(j) TIME FOR PROPOSAL AND ADOPTION OF STANDARDS- Appraisal standards
  established under this section shall be proposed not later than 6 months,
  and shall be effective upon adoption in final form not later than 12 months,
  after the date of the enactment of this section.
  `(k) TRANSACTIONS REQUIRING THE SERVICES OF A STATE CERTIFIED APPRAISER-
  In determining whether an appraisal in connection with a federally related
  transaction shall be performed by a State certified appraiser, an agency or
  instrumentality under this section shall consider whether the transactions,
  either individually or collectively, are of sufficient financial or public
  policy importance to the United States that an individual who performs an
  appraisal in connection with such transactions shall be a State certified
  appraiser; however, a State certified appraiser shall be required for
  all federally related transactions which involve the appraisal of real
  property having a value of $1,000,000 or more. One-to-four unit, single
  family residential appraisals may be performed by State licensed appraisers,
  unless the size and complexity require a State certified appraiser.
  `(l) TRANSACTIONS REQUIRING THE SERVICES OF A STATE LICENSED APPRAISER-
  All federally related transactions not requiring the services of a State
  certified appraiser may be performed by either a State certified or
  licensed appraiser.
  `(m) TIME FOR PROPOSAL AND ADOPTION OF RULES- Rules issued under
  subsections (k) and (l) shall be proposed not later than 6 months, and
  shall be effective upon adoption in final form not later than 12 months,
  after the date of the enactment of this section.
  `(n) CERTIFICATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS- As used in this section--
  `(1) DEFINITIONS-
  `(A) the term `State certified real estate appraiser' shall mean a person
  who currently has satisfied the requirements for State certification in
  a State or territory whose criteria for certification as a real estate
  appraiser currently meet the minimum criteria for certification issued by
  the Appraiser Qualification Board of the Appraisal Foundation; and
  `(B) the term `State licensed appraiser' shall mean a person who currently
  has satisfied the requirements for State licensing in a State or territory.
  `(2) RESTRICTION- No person may be deemed a `State certified real estate
  appraiser' under this section unless such person has achieved a passing
  grade upon a suitable examination administered by a State or territory
  that is consistent with and equivalent to the Uniform State Certification
  Examination issued or endorsed by the Appraiser Qualification Board of
  the Appraisal Foundation.
  `(3) ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY- Nothing in this section shall be
  construed to prevent any Federal agency or instrumentality from establishing
  such additional certification criteria as may be necessary or appropriate
  to carry out the statutory responsibilities of such department, agency
  or instrumentality.
  `(o) ESTABLISHMENT OF STATE APPRAISER CERTIFYING AND LICENSING AGENCIES-
  To assure the availability of State certified and licensed appraisers for
  the performance in a State of appraisals in federally related transactions
  and to assure effective supervision of the activities of certified and
  licensed appraisers, a State may establish a State appraiser certifying
  and licensing agency.
  `(p) MONITORING OF STATE APPRAISER CERTIFYING AND LICENSING AGENCIES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Appraisal Subcommittee shall monitor State appraiser
  certifying and licensing agencies for the purpose of determining whether
  an agency's policies, practices and procedures are consistent with this
  section. The Committee shall not recognize appraiser certifications and
  licenses from States whose appraisal policies, practices or procedures
  are found to be inconsistent with this section.
  `(2) DISAPPROVAL BY APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE- The Federal financial
  institutions regulatory agencies, the Federal National Mortgage Association,
  the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Resolution Trust
  Corporation shall accept certifications and licenses awarded by a State
  appraiser certifying and licensing agency unless the Appraisal Subcommittee
  issues a written finding that--
  `(A) the State agency fails to recognize and enforce the standards,
  requirements, and procedures prescribed pursuant to this section;
  `(B) the State agency is not granted authority by the State which is adequate
  to permit the agency to carry out its functions under this section; or
  `(C) the State agency fails to make decisions concerning appraisal
  standards, appraiser qualifications and supervision of appraiser practices
  in conformance with this section.
  `(3) Rejection of certifications and licenses by state agencies-
  `(A) OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD OR CORRECT CONDITIONS- Before refusing to
  recognize a State's appraiser certifications or licenses, the Appraisal
  Subcommittee shall provide that State's certifying and licensing agency
  written notice of its intention not to recognize the State's certified or
  licensed appraisers and ample opportunity to provide rebuttal information
  or to correct the conditions causing the refusal.
  `(B) ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES- The Appraisal Subcommittee shall adopt written
  procedures for taking action described in this subsection.
  `(C) JUDICIAL REVIEW- A decision of the Appraisal Subcommittee under this
  subsection shall be subject to judicial review.
  `(q) RECOGNITION OF STATE CERTIFIED AND LICENSED APPRAISERS FOR PURPOSES
  OF THIS SECTION-
  `(1) Effective date for use of certified or licensed appraisers only-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- No later than July 1, 1991, all appraisals performed
  in connection with federally related transactions and for other Federal
  purposes shall be performed only by persons certified or licensed in
  accordance with the requirements of this section.
  `(B) EXTENSION OF EFFECTIVE DATE- Subject to the approval of the Council,
  the Appraisal Subcommittee may extend, until December 31, 1991, the effective
  date for the use of certified or licensed appraisers if it makes a written
  finding that a State has made substantial progress in establishing a
  State certification and licensing system that appears to conform to the
  provisions of this section.
  `(2) TEMPORARY WAIVER OF APPRAISER CERTIFICATION OR LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
  FOR STATES HAVING SCARCITY OF QUALIFIED APPRAISERS- Subject to the approval
  of the Council, the Appraisal Subcommittee may waive any requirement relating
  to the certification or licensing of a person to perform appraisals under
  this section if--
  `(A) the Appraisal Subcommittee, or a State agency whose certifications and
  licenses are in compliance with this section, makes a written determination
  that there is a scarcity of certified or licensed appraisers to perform
  appraisals in connection with federally related transactions or the
  requirement would lead to inordinate delays in the performance of such
  appraisals; and
  `(B) the waiver terminates when the Appraisal Subcommittee determines that
  such inordinate delays have been eliminated.
  `(3) REPORTS TO STATE CERTIFYING AND LICENSING AGENCIES- The Appraisal
  Subcommittee or any other Federal agency or instrumentality shall report
  any action of a State certified or licensed appraiser that is contrary
  to the requirements of this section to the appropriate State agency for a
  disposition of the subject of the referral. The State agency shall provide
  the Subcommittee or the other Federal agency or instrumentality with a report
  on its disposition of the matter referred. Subsequent to such disposition,
  the Subcommittee or the other Federal agency or instrumentality may take
  such further action, pursuant to written procedures, as it deems necessary
  to carry out the purposes of this section.
  `(r) VIOLATIONS IN OBTAINING AND PERFORMING APPRAISALS IN FEDERALLY RELATED
  TRANSACTIONS-
  `(1) VIOLATIONS- Except as authorized by the Appraisal Subcommittee in
  exercising its waiver authority pursuant to subsection (q), it shall be
  a violation of this section--
  `(A) for a financial institution to knowingly seek, obtain, or give money
  or any other thing of value in exchange for the performance of an appraisal
  by a person who is not a State certified or licensed appraiser in connection
  with a federally related transaction; and
  `(B) for the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan
  Mortgage Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation to knowingly
  contract for the performance of any appraisal by a person who is not
  a State certified or licensed appraiser in connection with a federally
  related transaction to which such association or corporation is a party.
  `(2) PENALTIES- A financial institution that violates paragraph (a)(1)
  shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $25,000 for the first
  violation, and not more than $50,000 for each subsequent violation.
  `(3) Proceeding-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- A proceeding with respect to a violation of this section
  shall be an administrative proceeding which may be conducted by a State
  appraiser certifying and licensing agency or by a Federal financial
  institution regulatory agency in accordance with the procedures set forth
  in subchapter II of chapter 5 of section 5, United States Code.
  `(B) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Notwithstanding any other provision of law--
  `(i) a decision of a State appraiser certifying and licensing agency under
  this section shall be subject to review by a court of competent jurisdiction
  of the State; and
  `(ii) a decision of a Federal financial institutions regulatory agency
  under this section shall be subject to review by the United States Court
  of Appeals for the District of Columbia in accordance with chapter 7 of
  section 5, United States Code.
  `(s) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) STATE APPRAISER CERTIFYING AND LICENSING AGENCY- The term `State
  appraiser certifying and licensing agency' means a State agency established
  in compliance with this section;
  `(2) APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE- The term `Appraisal Subcommittee' means the
  Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Examination Council;
  `(3) COUNCIL- The term `council' means the Federal Financial Institutions
  Examinations Council;
  `(4) FEDERALLY RELATED TRANSACTION- The term `federally related transaction'
  means a real estate-related financial transaction requiring the services
  of an appraiser which a Federal financial institutions regulatory agency,
  the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
  Corporation or the Resolution Trust Corporation engages in, contracts for
  or regulates;
  `(5) REAL ESTATE RELATED FINANCIAL TRANSACTION- The term `real estate-related
  financial transaction' means any transaction involving--
  `(A) the sale, lease, purchase, investment in or exchange of real property,
  including interests in property, or the financing thereof;
  `(B) the refinancing of real property or interests in real property; or
  `(C) the use of real property or interests in property as security for a
  loan or investment, including mortgage-backed securities;
  `(6) CHAIRMAN- The term `Chairman' means the Chairman of the Appraisal
  Subcommittee selected by the council.
  `(7) FOUNDATION- The terms `Appraisal Foundation' and `Foundation' mean
  The Appraisal Foundation established on November 20, 1987, as a not for
  profit corporation under the laws of Illinois.
  `(t) MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS-
  `(1) TEMPORARY PRACTICE- A State appraiser certifying or licensing agency
  shall recognize on a temporary basis the certification or license of an
  appraiser issued by another State if (A) the property to be appraised is
  part of a federally related transaction, (B) the appraiser's business is
  of a temporary nature; and (C) the appraiser registers with the appraiser
  certifying or licensing agency in the State of temporary practice;
  `(2) AUTHORITY TO EXTEND PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION TO OTHER FEDERAL
  ENTITIES- The Office of Management and Budget is authorized, through the
  issuance of appropriate directives or orders, to require Federal departments
  and agencies, other than the Federal financial institutions regulatory
  agencies, to adhere to the provisions of this section requiring the use
  by those departments and agencies of appropriate appraisal standards,
  appraiser certification and licensing requirements, and State certified,
  and licensing appraisers for all federally related transactions of those
  other departments and agencies, as defined in this section.
  `(3) PROHIBITION AGAINST DISCRIMINATION- In securing the services of a
  real estate appraiser, users of appraisal services under this section
  shall not discriminate against a State certified or licensed appraiser on
  the basis of a designation from any particular professional real estate
  appraiser organization.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 1003(1) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 3302(1))
  is amended by striking `the Federal Home Loan Bank Board' and inserting
  `the Chairman of the Office of Savings Associations'.
SEC. 1412. SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
  If any provision of this Act or the application thereof to any person or
  circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application
  of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
  circumstances shall not be affected thereby.