Calendar No. 136
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 83
[Report No. 101-60]
A BILL
To establish the amount of costs of the Department of Energy's uranium
enrichment program that have not previously been recovered from enrichment
customers in the charges of the Department of Energy to its customers.
July 6 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Reported with an amendment and an amendment to the title
S 83 RS1S
(Star Print)
Calendar No. 136
101st CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 83
[Report No. 101-60]
To establish the amount of costs of the Department of Energy's uranium
enrichment program that have not previously been recovered from enrichment
customers in the charges of the Department of Energy to its customers.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 25 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Mr. FORD (for himself and Mr. JOHNSTON) introduced the following bill; which
was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
July 6 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1989
Reported, under authority of the order of the Senate of June 22 (legislative
day, January 3), 1989, by Mr. JOHNSTON, with an amendment and an amendment
to the title
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
A BILL
To establish the amount of costs of the Department of Energy's uranium
enrichment program that have not previously been recovered from enrichment
customers in the charges of the Department of Energy to its customers.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled,  [Struck out] That section 161v. of
  the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, (42 U.S.C. 2201(v)) is further
  amended by inserting after the phrase `over a reasonable period of time:
  . . .' the following: ` [Struck out] And provided further,  [Struck out]
  That the Government's costs of providing services under paragraphs A and B
  of this subsection that have been incurred and not recovered prior to fiscal
  year 1987 of the United States are hereby determined to be $364,000,000,
  and such amount shall be recovered in charges for services under paragraphs
  A and B within a twenty-year period commencing on October 1, 1989, along
  with interest on the unpaid balance at a rate equal to the average yield
  on long-term Government obligations as determined by the Secretary of the
  Treasury on October 1, 1989:'. [Struck out]  
That this Act may be referred to as the `Comprehensive Uranium Act of 1989'.
TITLE I
  SEC. 110. SHORT TITLE- This title may be cited as the `Uranium Enrichment
  Act of 1989'.
  SEC. 111. DELETION OF SECTION 161 v- Subsection 161 v. of the Atomic
  Energy Act of 1954, as amended, is deleted and the remaining subsections
  are relettered accordingly.
  SEC. 112. REDIRECTION OF THE URANIUM ENRICHMENT ENTERPRISE OF THE UNITED
  STATES- The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011-2296)
  is further amended by--
  a. inserting at the commencement thereof after the words `ATOMIC ENERGY
  ACT OF 1954':
`TITLE I--ATOMIC ENERGY';
and
  b. adding at the end thereof the following:
`TITLE II--UNITED STATES ENRICHMENT CORPORATION
`CHAPTER 21. FINDINGS
  `SEC. 1101. FINDINGS- The Congress of the United States finds that:
  `a. The enrichment of uranium is essential to the national security and
  energy security of the United States.
  `b. A competitive, well-managed and efficient enrichment enterprise
  provides important economic benefits to the United States and contributes
  to a highly favorable foreign trade balance.
  `c. A strong United States enrichment enterprise promotes United States
  nonproliferation policies by requiring accountability for United States
  enriched uranium.
  `d. The operation of uranium enrichment facilities must meet high standards
  for environmental health and safety.
  `e. The operation and management of a uranium enrichment enterprise
  requires a commercial business orientation in order to engender customer
  support and confidence, and customers, rather than the taxpayers at large,
  should bear the costs of commercial uranium enrichment services.
  `f. The optimal level of expenditures for the uranium enrichment enterprise
  fluctuates and cannot be accurately predicted or efficiently financed if
  subject to annual authorization and appropriation.
  `g. Flexibility is essential to adapt business operations to a competitive
  marketplace.
  `h. The events of the recent past, including the emergence of foreign
  competition, have brought new and unforeseen forces to bear upon the
  management and operation of the Government's uranium enrichment enterprise.
  `i. The present operation of the uranium enrichment enterprise must be
  changed so as to further the national interest in the enterprise and
  respond to the competitive demand placed upon it by market forces, while
  continuing to meet the paramount objective of ensuring the Nation's common
  defense and security.
`CHAPTER 22. DEFINITIONS, ESTABLISHMENT OF CORPORATION AND PURPOSES
  `SEC. 1201. DEFINITIONS- For the purpose of this title:
  `a. The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Energy.
  `b. The term `Department' means the Department of Energy of the United
  States.
  `c. The term `Administrator' means the chief executive officer of the
  United States Enrichment Corporation.
  `d. The term `Corporation' means the United States Enrichment Corporation.
  `e. The term `Corporate Board' means the appointed members of the official
  advisory panel appointed by the President pursuant to section 1503 of
  this title.
  `f. The term `uranium enrichment' means the separation of uranium of a
  given isotopic content into two components, one having a higher percentage
  of a fissile isotope and one having a lower percentage.
  `g. The term `remedial action' has the same meaning as defined in section
  120(24) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
  Liability Act.
  `h. The term `decontamination and decommissioning' means those activities
  undertaken to decontaminate and decommission inactive facilities that
  have residual radioactive or mixed radioactive and hazardous chemical
  contamination.
  `SEC. 1202. Establishment of the Corporation:
  `a. There is hereby created a body corporate to be known as the `United
  States Enrichment Corporation'.
  `b. The Corporation shall--
  `(1) be established as a wholly owned Government corporation subject to
  the Government Corporation Control Act, as amended (31 U.S.C. 9101-9109),
  except as otherwise provided herein; and
  `(2) be an agency and instrumentality of the United States.
  `SEC. 1203. PURPOSES- The Corporation is created for the following purposes--
  `(1) to acquire feed material for uranium enrichment, enriched uranium,
  the Department's uranium previously set aside for commercial purposes,
  and the Department's uranium enrichment and related facilities;
  `(2) to operate, and as required by business conditions, to expand or
  construct facilities for uranium enrichment or both;
  `(3) to market and sell enriched uranium and uranium enrichment and related
  services to--
  `(A) the Department for governmental purposes; and
  `(B) qualified domestic and foreign persons;
  `(4) to conduct research and development as required to meet corporate
  objectives for the purpose of identifying, evaluating, improving and
  testing processes for uranium enrichment;
  `(5) to operate, as a commercial enterprise, on a profitable and efficient
  basis; in order to maximize the long term economic value of the Corporation
  to the United States Government including the payment of dividends to the
  Treasury as a return on the United States Government investment;
  `(6) to conduct the business as a self-financing corporation and eliminate
  the need for appropriations or other sources of Government financing after
  enactment of this title;
  `(7) to maintain a reliable and economical domestic source of enrichment
  services;
  `(8) to conduct its activities in a manner consistent with the health and
  safety of the public;
  `(9) to continue to meet the paramount objectives of ensuring the Nation's
  common defense and security (including consideration of United States
  policies concerning nonproliferation of atomic weapons and other nonpeaceful
  uses of atomic energy); and
  `(10) to take all other lawful action in furtherance of the foregoing
  purposes.
`CHAPTER 23. CORPORATE OFFICES
  `SEC. 1301. CORPORATE OFFICES- The Corporation shall maintain an office
  for the service of process and papers in the District of Columbia, and
  shall be deemed, for purposes of venue in civil actions, to be a resident
  thereof. The Corporation may establish offices in such other place or places
  as it may deem necessary or appropriate in the conduct of its business.
`CHAPTER 24. POWER AND DUTIES OF THE CORPORATION
  `SEC. 1401. SPECIFIC CORPORATE POWERS AND DUTIES- The Corporation--
  `a. shall perform uranium enrichment or provide for uranium to be enriched
  by others at facilities of the Corporation; contracts in existence as of the
  date of enactment of this title between the Department and persons under
  contract to perform uranium enrichment and related services at facilities
  of the Department shall continue in effect as if the Corporation, rather
  than the Department, had executed these contracts;
  `b. shall conduct, or provide for the conduct of, research and development
  activities related to the isotopic separation of uranium as the Corporation
  deems necessary or advisable for purposes of maintaining the Corporation
  as a continuing, commercial enterprise operating on a profitable and
  efficient basis;
  `c. may acquire or distribute enriched uranium, feed material for uranium
  enrichment or depleted uranium in transactions with--
  `(1) persons licensed under sections 53, 63, 103, or 104 of title I in
  accordance with the licenses held by such persons;
  `(2) persons in accordance with, and within the period of, an agreement
  for cooperation arranged pursuant to section 123 of title I; or
  `(3) as otherwise authorized by law;
  `d. may--
  `(1) enter into contracts with persons licensed under section 53, 63,
  103, or 104 of title I for such periods of time as the Corporation may
  deem necessary or desirable, to provide uranium or uranium enrichment and
  related services; and
  `(2) enter into contracts to provide uranium or uranium enrichment and
  related services in accordance with, and within the period of, an agreement
  for cooperation arranged pursuant to section 123 of title I or as otherwise
  authorized by law;
  `e. shall sell to the Department as provided in this title, and without
  regard to section 57 e. of title I or the provisions of section 1535 of
  title 31, United States Code, such amounts of uranium or uranium enrichment
  and related services as the Department may determine from time to time are
  required: (1) for the Department to carry out Presidential direction and
  authorizations pursuant to section 91 of title I; and (2) for the conduct
  of other Department programs;
  `f. may grant licenses, both exclusive and nonexclusive, for the use of
  patent and patent applications owned by the Corporation, and establish and
  collect charges, in the form of royalties or otherwise, for utilization of
  Corporation-owned facilities, equipment, patents, and technical information
  of a proprietary nature pertaining to the Corporation's activities.
  `SEC. 1402. GENERAL POWERS OF THE CORPORATION- In order to accomplish the
  purposes of this title, the Corporation--
  `a. shall have perpetual succession unless dissolved by Act of Congress;
  `b. may adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal, which shall be judicially
  noticed;
  `c. may sue and be sued in its corporate name and be represented by its
  own attorneys in all judicial and administrative proceedings;
  `d. may indemnify the Administrator, officers, attorneys, agents and
  employees of the Corporation for liabilities and expenses incurred in
  connection with their corporate activities;
  `e. may adopt, amend, and repeal bylaws, rules, and regulations governing
  the manner in which its business may be conducted and the power granted
  to it by law may be exercised and enjoyed;
  `f. (1) may acquire, purchase, lease, and hold real and personal property
  including patents and proprietary data, as it deems necessary in the
  transaction of its business, and sell, lease, grant, and dispose of
  such real and personal property, as it deems necessary to effectuate the
  purposes of this title and without regard to the Federal Property and the
  Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended;
  `(2) Purchases, contracts for the construction, maintenance, or management
  and operation of facilities and contracts for supplies or services, except
  personal services, made by the Corporation shall be made after advertising,
  in such manner and at such times sufficiently in advance of opening bids,
  as the Corporation shall determine to be adequate to insure notice and an
  opportunity for competition: Provided, That advertising shall not be required
  when the Corporation determines that the making of any such purchase or
  contract without advertising is necessary in the interest of furthering the
  purposes of this title, or that advertising is not reasonably practicable;
  `g. with the consent of the agency or government concerned, may utilize
  or employ the services or personnel of any Federal Government agency, or
  any State or local government, or voluntary or uncompensated personnel to
  perform such functions on its behalf as may appear desirable;
  `h. may enter into and perform such contracts, leases, cooperative
  agreements, or other transactions as may be necessary in the conduct of
  its business and on such terms as it may deem appropriate, with any agency
  or instrumentality of the United States, or with any State, territory or
  possession, or with any political subdivision thereof, or with any person,
  firm, association, or corporation;
  `i. may determine the character of and the necessity for its obligations
  and expenditures and the manner in which they shall be incurred, allowed,
  and paid, subject to the provisions of this title and other provisions of
  law specifically applicable to wholly owned Government corporations;
  `j. notwithstanding any other provision of law, and without need for
  further appropriation, may use monies, unexpended appropriations, revenues
  and receipts from operations, amounts received from obligations issued and
  other assets of the Corporation in accordance with section 1505, without
  fiscal year limitation, for the payment of expenses and other obligations
  incurred by the Corporation in carrying out its functions under, and within
  the requirements of, this title; and shall not be subject to apportionment
  under the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 15 of title 31, United
  States Code;
  `k. may settle and adjust claims held by the Corporation against other
  persons or parties and claims by other persons or parties against the
  Corporation;
  `l. may exercise, in the name of the United States, the power of eminent
  domain for the furtherance of the official purposes of the Corporation;
  `m. shall have the priority of the United States with respect to the
  payment of debts out of bankrupt, insolvent, and decedents' estates;
  `n. may define appropriate information as `Government Commercial Information'
  and exempt such information from mandatory release pursuant to section
  552(b)(3) of title 5, United States Code, when it is determined by the
  Administrator that such information if publicly released would harm the
  Corporation's legitimate commercial interests or those of a third party;
  `o. may request, and the Administrator of General Services, when requested,
  shall furnish the Corporation such services as he is authorized to provide
  agencies of the United States;
  `p. may accept gifts or donations of services, or of property, real,
  personal, mixed, tangible or intangible, in aid of any purposes herein
  authorized; and
  `q. may execute, in accordance with its bylaws, rules and regulations, all
  instruments necessary and appropriate in the exercise of any of its powers.
  `r. shall pay any settlement or judgment entered against it from the
  Corporation's own funds and not from the judgment fund (31 U.S.C. 1304). The
  provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 1346(b) and 2671 et
  seq.) shall not apply to any claims arising from the activities of the
  Corporation after the effective date of this statute: Provided, That this
  subsection shall not apply to liability or claims arising from a nuclear
  incident, if such incident occurs prior to the licensing of the Corporation's
  existing Gaseous Diffusion Facilities under section 1601 of this title.
  `SEC. 1403. Continuation of Contracts, Orders, Proceedings, and Regulations:
  `a. Except as provided elsewhere in this title, all contracts, agreements,
  and leases with the Department, and licenses, and privileges that have
  been afforded to the Department prior to the date of the enactment of
  this title and that relate to uranium enrichment, including all enrichment
  services contracts, power purchase contracts, and the December 18, 1987,
  settlement agreement with the Tennessee Valley Authority regarding payment
  of capacity charges under the Department's two power contracts with the
  Tennessee Valley Authority, shall continue in effect as if the Corporation
  had executed such contracts, agreements, or leases or had been afforded
  such licenses and privileges.
  `b. As related to the functions vested in the Corporation by this title, all
  orders, determinations, rules, regulations and privileges of the Department
  shall continue in effect and remain applicable to the Corporation until
  modified, terminated, superseded, set aside or revoked by the Corporation,
  by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law unless
  otherwise specifically provided in this title.
  `c. Except as provided elsewhere in this title, the transfer of functions
  related to and vested in the Corporation by this title shall not affect
  proceedings judicial or otherwise, relating to such functions which are
  pending at the time this title takes effect, and such proceedings shall
  be continued with the Corporation, as appropriate.
  `SEC. 1404. LIABILITIES- Except as provided elsewhere in this title, all
  liabilities attributable to operation of the uranium enrichment enterprise
  prior to the date of the enactment of this title shall remain direct
  liabilities of the Government of the United States; with regard to any
  claim seeking to impose such liability, section 1403 shall not be applicable
  and the United States shall be represented by the Department of Justice.
`CHAPTER 25. ORGANIZATION, FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT
  `SEC. 1501. Administrator:
  `a. The management of the Corporation shall be vested in an Administrator
  who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
  of the Senate, without regard to political affiliation. The Administrator
  shall be a person who, by reason of professional background and experience
  is specially qualified to manage the Corporation: Provided, however, That
  upon enactment of this title, the President shall appoint in existing
  officer or employee of the United States to act as Administrator until
  the office is filled.
  `b. The Administrator--
  `(1) shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall
  be responsible for the management and direction of the Corporation. The
  Administrator shall establish the offices, appoint the officers and employees
  of the Corporation (including attorneys), and define their responsibilities
  and duties. The Administrator shall appoint other officers and employees
  as may be required to conduct the Corporation's business;
  `(2) shall serve a term of six years but may be reappointed;
  `(3) shall, before taking office, take an oath to faithfully discharge
  the duties thereof;
  `(4) shall have compensation determined by the President based upon the
  recommendation of the Secretary and the Corporate Board as provided
  in section 1503(c), except that in the absence of such determination
  compensation shall be set at Executive Level I, as prescribed in section
  5312 of title 5, United States Code;
  `(5) shall be a citizen of the United States;
  `(6) shall designate an officer of the Corporation who shall be vested with
  the authority to act in the capacity of the Administrator in the event of
  absence or incapacity; and
  `(7) may be removed from office only by the President and only for neglect
  of duty or malfeasance in office. The President shall communicate the
  reasons for any such removal to both Houses of Congress at least thirty
  days prior to the effective date of such removal.
  `c. (1) The Secretary shall exercise general supervision over the
  Administrator only with respect to the activities of the Corporation
  involving--
  `(A) the Nation's common defense and security; and
  `(B) health, safety and the environment.
  `(2) The Administrator shall be solely responsible for the exercise of all
  powers and responsibilities that are committed to the Administrator under
  this title and that are not reserved to the Secretary under paragraph (1),
  and, notwithstanding the provisions of section 9104(a)(4) of title 31,
  United States Code, including the setting of the appropriate amount of,
  and paying, any dividend under section 1506(c) and all other fiscal matters.
  `SEC. 1502. DELEGATION- The Administrator may delegate to other officers
  or employees powers and duties assigned to the Corporation in order to
  achieve the purposes of this title.
  `SEC. 1503. CORPORATE BOARD- There is hereby established a Corporate Board
  appointed by the President which shall consist of five members, one of
  whom shall be designated as chairman. Members of the Corporate Board shall
  be individuals possessing high integrity, demonstrated accomplishment and
  broad experience in management and shall have strong backgrounds in science,
  engineering, business or finance. At least one member of the Corporate
  Board shall be, or previously have been, employed on a full-time basis in
  managing an electric utility:
  `a. (1) The specific responsibilities of the Corporate Board shall be to--
  `(A) review the Corporation's policies and performance and advise the
  Administrator and the Secretary on these matters; and
  `(B) advise the Administrator and the Secretary on any other such matters
  concerning the Corporation as may be referred to the Corporate Board.
  `(2) The Board shall have the right to recommend removal of the
  Administrator. In the event such recommendation is made, it shall be
  transmitted to the President by the Secretary, together with the Secretary's
  own recommendation on removal of the Administrator.
  `b. Members of the Board shall be provided access to all significant
  reports, memoranda, or other written communications generated or received
  by the Corporation. At the request of the Board, the Corporation shall
  make available to the Board all financial records, reports, files, papers,
  and memoranda of, or in use by, the Corporation.
  `c. When appropriate, the Corporate Board may make recommendations to the
  Secretary concerning the compensation to be received by the Administrator
  and up to ten officers of the Corporation who may receive compensation in
  excess of Executive Level II as provided in section 1504(a). The Secretary
  shall transmit such recommendations to the President together with the
  Secretary's own recommendations concerning compensation. In the event that
  less than three members of the Corporate Board are in office, recommendations
  concerning compensation may be made by the Secretary alone. The President
  shall have the power to enter into binding agreements concerning compensation
  to be received by the Administrator during his term of office and by the
  ten officers described in section 1504(a) during their term of employment,
  regardless of any recommendations received or not received under this title.
  `d. Except for initial appointments, members of the Corporate Board shall
  serve five-year terms. Each member of the Corporate Board shall be a citizen
  of the United States. No more than three members of the Board shall be
  members of any one political party. Of those first appointed, the chairman
  shall serve for the full five-year term; one member shall serve for a term
  of four years; one shall serve for a term of three years; one shall serve
  for a term of two years; and one shall serve for a term of one year.
  `e. Upon expiration of the initial term, each Corporate Board member
  appointed thereafter shall serve a term of five years. Upon the occurance of
  a vacancy on the Board, the President shall appoint an individual to fill
  such vacancy for the remainder of the applicable term. Upon expiration
  of a term, a Board member may continue to serve up to a maximum of one
  year or until a successor shall have been appointed and assumed office,
  whichever occurs first.
  `f. The members of the Corporate Board in executing their duties shall
  be governed by the laws and regulations regarding conflicts of interest,
  but exempted from other provisions and authority prescribed by the Federal
  Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. Appendix 2).
  `g. The Corporate Board shall meet at any time pursuant to the call of the
  Chairman and as provided by the bylaws of the Corporation, but not less
  than quarterly. The Administrator or his representative shall attend all
  meetings of the Corporate Board.
  `h. The Corporation shall compensate members of the Corporate Board at a
  per diem rate equivalent to Executive Level III, as defined in section 5314
  of title 5, United States Code, in addition to reimbursement of reasonable
  expenses incurred when engaged in the performance of duties vested in the
  Corporate Board. Any Corporate Board member who is otherwise a Federal
  employee shall not be eligible for compensation above reimbursement for
  reasonable expenses incurred while attending official meetings of the
  Corporation.
  `i. (1) The Corporate Board shall report at least annually to the
  Administrator on the performance of the Corporation and the issues that, in
  the opinion of the Board, require the attention of the Administrator. Any
  such report shall include such recommendations as the Board finds
  appropriate. A copy of any report under this subsection shall be transmitted
  promptly to the President, the Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Natural
  Resources of the Senate and to the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
  `(2) Within ninety days after the receipt of any report under this subsection
  the Administrator shall respond in writing to such report and provide an
  analysis of such recommendations of the Board contained in the report. Such
  response shall include plans for implementation of each recommendation
  or a justification for not implementing such recommendation. A copy of
  any response under this subsection shall be transmitted promptly to the
  President, the Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
  and to the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
  `SEC. 1504. EMPLOYEES OF THE CORPORATION- Officers and employees of the
  Corporation shall be officers and employees of the United States:
  `a. The Administrator shall appoint all officers, employees and agents of the
  Corporation as are deemed necessary to effect the provisions of this title
  without regard to any administratively imposed limits on personnel, and any
  such officer, employee or agent shall only be subject to the supervision
  of the Administrator. The Administrator shall fix all compensation in
  accordance with the comparable pay provisions of section 5301 of title 5,
  United States Code, with compensation levels not to exceed Executive Level
  II, as defined in section 5313 of title 5, United States Code: Provided, That
  the Administrator may, upon recommendation by the Secretary and the Corporate
  Board as provided in section 1503(c) and approval by the President, appoint
  up to ten officers whose compensation shall not exceed an amount which is
  20 per centum less than the compensation received by the Administrator,
  but not less than Executive Level II. The Administrator shall define the
  duties of all officers and employees and provide a system of organization
  inclusive of a personnel management system to fix responsibilities and
  promote efficiency. The Corporation shall assure that the personnel function
  and organization is consistent with the principles of section 2301(b) of
  title 5, United States Code, relating to merit system principles. Officers
  and employees of the Corporation shall be appointed, promoted and assigned
  on the basis of merit and fitness, and other personnel actions shall be
  consistent with the principles of fairness and due process but without
  regard to those provisions of title 5 of the United States Code governing
  appointments and other personnel actions in the competitive service.
  `b. Any Federal employee hired before January 1, 1984, who transfers to
  the Corporation and who on the day before the date of transfer is subject
  to the Federal Civil Service Retirement System (subchapter III of chapter
  83 of title 5, United States Code) shall remain within the coverage of
  such system unless he or she elects to be subject to the Federal Employees'
  Retirement System. For those employees remaining in the Federal Civil Service
  Retirement System, the Corporation shall withhold pay and shall pay into
  the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts specified in
  chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code. Employment by the Corporation
  without a break in continuity of service shall be considered to be employment
  by the United States Government for purposes of subchapter III of chapter
  83 of title 5, United States Code. Any employee of the Corporation who
  is not within the coverage of the Federal Civil Service Retirement System
  shall be subject to the Federal Employees' Retirement System (chapter 84
  of title 5, United States Code). The Corporation shall withhold pay and
  make such payments as are required under that retirement system. Further:
  `(1) Any employee who transfers to the Corporation under this section shall
  not be entitled to lump sum payments for unused annual leave under section
  5551 title 5, United States Code, but shall be credited by the Corporation
  with the unused annual leave at the time of transfer.
  `(2) An employee who does not transfer to the Corporation and who does not
  otherwise remain a Federal employee shall be entitled to all the rights
  and benefits available under Federal law for separated employees, except
  that severance pay shall not be payable to an employee who does not accept
  an offer of employment from the Corporation of work substantially similar
  to that performed by the employee for the Department.
  `c. This section does not affect a right or remedy of an officer, employee,
  or applicant for employment under a law prohibiting discrimination in
  employment in the Government on the basis of race, color, religion, age,
  sex, national origin, political affiliation, marital status, or handicap
  conditions.
  `d. Officers and employees of the Corporation shall be covered by chapter
  73 of title 5, United States Code, relating to suitability, security
  and conduct.
  `e. Compensation, benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment
  in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this section, whether
  provided by statute or by rules and regulations of the Department or the
  executive branch of the Government of the United States shall continue
  to apply to officers and employees who transfer to the Corporation from
  other Federal employment until changed by the Corporation in accordance
  with the provisions of this title.
  `f. The provisions of sections 3323(a) and 8344 of title 5, United States
  Code, or any other law prohibiting or limiting the reemployment of retired
  officers or employees or the simultaneous receipt of compensation and
  retired pay or annuities, shall not apply to officers and employees of the
  Corporation who have retired from or ceased previous government service
  prior to April 28, 1987.
  `SEC. 1505. TRANSFER OF PROPERTY TO THE CORPORATION- In order to enable
  the Corporation to exercise the powers and duties vested in it by this title:
  `a. The Secretary, as requested by the Administrator, is authorized
  and directed to transfer without charge to the Corporation all of the
  Department's right, title, or interest in and to, real or personal
  properties owned by the Department, or by the United States but under
  control or custody of the Department, which are related to and materially
  useful in the performance of the functions transferred by this title,
  including but not limited to the following--
  `(1) production facilities for uranium enrichment inclusive of real estate,
  buildings and other improvements at production sites and their related and
  supporting equipment: Provided, That facilities, real estate, improvements
  and equipment related to the Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Oak Ridge,
  Tennessee, and to the gas centrifuge enrichment program shall not transfer
  under this paragraph except for diffusion cascades and related equipment
  needed by the Corporation for replacement parts: Provided further, That
  any enrichment facilities retained by the Department shall not be used to
  enrich uranium in competition with the Corporation. This paragraph shall
  not prejudice consideration of any site as a candidate site for future
  expansion or replacement of uranium enrichment capacity;
  `(2) at such time subsequent to the year 2000 as the Secretary determines
  that the Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant should be decommissioned
  or decontaminated, or both, the Secretary shall convey without charge
  equipment and facilities relating to the Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant
  not transferred in paragraph (1) to the Corporation;
  `(3) facilities, equipment, and materials for research and development
  activities related to the isotopic separation of uranium by the gaseous
  diffusion technology;
  `(4) the Department's stocks of preproduced enriched uranium, but excluding
  stocks of highly enriched uranium: Provided, That approximately two metric
  tons of the Department's highly enriched uranium shall be loaned to the
  Corporation as required for working inventory;
  `(5) the Department's stocks of feed materials for uranium enrichment
  except for the quantities allocated to the national defense activities of
  the Department as of the date of enactment;
  `(A) the Department's stockpile of enrichment tails existing as of the
  date of enactment, shall remain with the Department; and
  `(B) stocks of feed materials which remain the property of the Department
  under paragraph (5) shall remain in place at the enrichment plant sites. The
  Corporation shall have access to and use of these feed materials provided
  such quantities as are used are replaced, or credit given, if use by the
  Department is subsequently needed.
  `(6) all other facilities, equipment, materials, processes, patents,
  technical information of any kind, contracts, agreements, and leases to
  the extent these items concern the Corporation's functions and activities,
  except those items required for programs and activities of the Department
  and those items specifically excluded by this subsection.
The transfer authorized by this section is not subject to the requirements
of section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act.
  `b. The Secretary is authorized and directed to grant to the Corporation
  without charge the Department's rights and access to the Atomic Vapor Laser
  Isotope Separation, hereinafter referred to as `AVLIS', technology and to
  provide on a reimbursable basis and at the request of the Corporation,
  the necessary cooperation and support of the Department to assure the
  commercial development and deployment of AVLIS or other technologies in
  a manner consistent with the intent of this title.
  `c. The Secretary is authorized and directed to grant the Corporation
  without charge, to the extent necessary or appropriate for the conduct
  of the Corporation's activities, licenses to practice or have practiced
  any inventions or discoveries (whether patented or unpatented) together
  with the right to use or have used any processes and technical information
  owned or controlled by the Department.
  `d. The Secretary is directed, without need of further appropriation, to
  transfer to the Corporation the unexpended balance of appropriations and
  other monies available to the Department (inclusive of funds set aside for
  accounts payable), and accounts receivable which are related to functions
  and activities acquired by the Corporation from the Department pursuant
  to this title, including all advance payments.
  `e. The President is authorized to provide for the transfer to the
  Corporation of the use, possession, and control of such other real and
  personal property of the United States which is reasonably related to the
  functions performed by the Corporation. Such transfers may be made by the
  President without charge as he may from time to time deem necessary and
  proper for achieving the purposes of this title.
  `f. Title to depleted uranium resulting from the enrichment services provided
  to the Department by the Corporation shall remain with the Department.
  `SEC. 1506. Capital Structure of the Corporation:
  `a. Upon commencement of operations of the Corporation, all liabilities
  then chargeable to unexpended balances of appropriations transferred under
  section 1505 shall become liabilities of the Corporation.
  `b. (1) The Corporation shall issue capital stock representing an equity
  investment equal to the book value of assets transferred to the Corporation,
  as reported in the Uranium Enrichment Annual Report for fiscal year 1987,
  modified to reflect continued depreciation and other usual changes that
  occur up to date of transfer. The Secretary of the Treasury shall hold
  such stock for the United States: Provided, That all rights and duties
  pertaining to management of the Corporation shall remain vested in the
  Administrator as specified in section 1501.
  `(2) The capital stock of the Corporation shall not be sold, transferred,
  or conveyed by the United States unless such disposition is specifically
  authorized by Federal law enacted after enactment of this title.
  `c. The Corporation shall pay into miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury
  of the United States or such other fund as provided by law, dividends
  on the capital stock, out of earnings of the Corporation, as a return on
  the investment represented by such stock. The Corporation shall pay such
  dividends out of earnings, unless there is an overriding need to retain
  these funds in furtherance of other corporate functions including but not
  limited to research and development, capital investments and establishment
  of cash reserves.
  `d. The Corporation shall repay within a twenty-year period the amount
  of $364,000,000 into miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury of the United
  States, or such other fund as provided by law with interest on the unpaid
  balance from the date of enactment of this title at a rate equal to the
  average yield on twenty-year Government obligations as determined by the
  Secretary of the Treasury on the date of enactment of this title. The money
  required to be repaid under this subsection is hereinafter referred to as
  the `Initial Debt'.
  `e. Receipt by the United States of the stock issued by the Corporation
  (including all rights appurtenant thereto) together with repayment of the
  Initial Debt shall constitute the sole recovery by the United States of
  previously unrecovered costs that have been incurred by the United States
  of uranium enrichment activities prior to enactment of this title.
  `SEC. 1507. Borrowing:
  `a. (1) The Corporation is authorized to issue and sell bonds, notes, and
  other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter collectively referred to as
  `bonds') in an amount not exceeding $2,500,000,000 outstanding at any one
  time to assist in financing its activities and to refund such bonds. The
  principal of and interest on said bonds shall be payable from revenues of
  the Corporation.
  `(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Corporation may
  pledge and use its revenues for payment of the principal of and interest
  on said bonds, for purchase or redemption thereof, and for other purposes
  incidential thereto, including creation of reserve funds and other funds
  which may be similarly pledged and used, to such extent and in such manner
  as it may deem necessary or desirable.
  `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Corporation is
  authorized to enter into binding convenants with the holders of said
  bonds--and with the trustee, if any--under any indenture, resolution,
  or other agreement entered into in connection with the issuance thereof
  with respect to the establishment of reserve funds and other funds,
  stipulations concerning the subsequent issuance of bonds, and such other
  matters, not inconsistent with this title, as the Corporation may deem
  necessary or desirable to enhance the marketability of said bonds.
  `(4) Bonds issued by the Corporation hereunder shall not be obligations
  of, nor shall payments of the principal thereof or interest thereon be
  guaranteed by, the United States.
  `b. Bonds issued by the Corporation under this section shall be negotiable
  instruments unless otherwise specified therein, shall be in such forms and
  denominations, shall be sold at such times and in such amounts, shall mature
  at such time or times not more than thirty years from their respective
  dates, shall be sold at such prices, shall bear such rates of interest,
  may be redeemable before maturity at the option of the Corporation in
  such manner and at such times and redemption premiums, may be entitled
  to such priorities of claim on the Corporation's revenues with respect
  to principal and interest payments, and shall be subject to such other
  terms and conditions, as the Corporation may determine: Provided, That at
  least fifteen days before selling each issue of bonds hereunder (exclusive
  of any commitment shorter than one year) the Corporation shall advise
  the Secretary of the Treasury as to the amount, proposed date of sale,
  maturities, terms and conditions and expected rates of interest of the
  proposed issue in the fullest detail possible. The Corporation shall not
  be subject to the provisions of section 9108 of title 31, United States
  Code. The Corporation shall be deemed part of an executive department
  or an independent establishment of the United States for purposes of the
  provisions of section 78c(c) of title 15, United States Code.
  `c. Bonds issued by the Corporation hereunder shall be lawful investments
  and may be accepted as security for all fiduciary, trust, and public funds,
  the investment or deposit of which shall be under the authority or control
  of any officer or agency of the United States. The Secretary of the Treasury
  or any other officer or agency having authority over or control of any such
  fiduciary, trust, or public funds, may at any time sell any of the bonds
  of the Corporation acquired by them under this section: Provided, That the
  Corporation shall not issue or sell any bonds to the Federal Financing Bank.
  `SEC. 1508. PRICING:
  `a. For purposes of maximizing the long-term economic value of the
  Corporation to the United States Government, the Corporation shall establish
  prices for its products, materials and services provided to customers other
  than the Department on a basis that will, over the long term, allow it
  to recover its costs for providing the products, materials and services;
  repay the Initial Debt; recover costs of decontamination, decommissioning
  and remedial action; and attain the normal business objectives of a
  profitmaking Corporation.
  `b. The Corporation shall establish prices for low assay enrichment services
  and other products, materials, and services provided the Department
  on a basis that will allow it to recover its costs on a yearly basis
  for providing such low assay enrichment services, products, materials,
  and services, including depreciation and the cost of decontamination,
  decommissioning and remedial action, but excluding repayment of the
  Initial Debt and profit. In establishing such prices, the base charge paid
  by the Department in any given year shall not exceed the average base
  charge paid by customers other than the Department: Provided, however,
  That if the imposition of such average base charges as a limitation on
  the base charge paid by the Department in a given year does not permit
  the Corporation to fully recover its costs for providing such products,
  materials and services to the Department then, in subsequent years, the
  Corporation shall include such unrecovered costs in its prices charged
  the Department. Base charge shall mean the amount paid by a customer per
  separative work unit for low assay enrichment services during a given year
  (exclusive of any credits received under a voluntary overfeeding program),
  less the portion of such amount which represents the cost of decontamination
  and decommissioning and remedial action. The average base charge paid by
  customers other than the Department shall be determined by dividing the
  estimated total dollar amount of low assay enrichment services sales to
  customers other than the Department during a given year by the estimated
  amount of separative work units sold to customers other than the Department
  during that year. Adjustments between estimated and actual amounts shall
  be made upon receipt of actual sales data.
  `c. The Corporation shall establish prices to the Department for high assay
  enrichment services on a basis that will allow it to recover its costs,
  on a yearly basis, for providing the products, materials or services,
  including depreciation and the costs of decontamination, decommissioning,
  and remedial action concerning enrichment property, but excluding repayment
  of the Initial Debt and profit. If the Department does not request any
  enrichment services in a given year, the Department shall reimburse the
  Corporation for costs required to maintain the minimum level of operation
  of the high assay production facility.
  `d. (1) In accordance with the cost responsibilities defined in paragraphs
  (3) and (4), the Corporation shall recover from its customers in the prices
  and charges established in accordance with subsection (a), amounts that
  will be sufficient to pay for the costs of decommissioning, decontamination
  and remedial action for the various property of the Corporation, including
  property transferred under section 1505(a) at any time. Such costs shall
  be based on the point in time that such decommissioning, decontamination
  and remedial action are to be undertaken and accomplished: Provided,
  That by the year 2000 the Corporation shall have recovered and deposited
  in the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund 50 per
  centum of the estimated total costs of decontamination and decommissioning
  of all property transferred or to be transferred to the Corporation under
  section 1505, including the Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant.
  `(2) In order to meet the objective defined in paragraph (1), the
  Corporation shall periodically estimate the anticipated or actual costs
  of decommissioning and decontamination. Such estimates shall reflect any
  changes in assumptions or expectations relevant to meeting such objective,
  including, but not limited to, any changes in applicable environmental
  requirements. Such estimates shall be reviewed at least every two years.
  `(3) For purposes of enabling the Corporation to meet the objective
  defined in paragraph (1) with respect to the Oak Ridge Gaseous Diffusion
  Plant, the Secretary shall periodically estimate the anticipated
  costs of decontamination and decommissioning and the time at which such
  decontamination and decommissioning is to be accomplished. Such estimates
  shall reflect any changes in assumptions or expectations relevant to
  meeting such objective, including but not limited to, any changes in
  applicable environmental requirements. The Secretary shall review such
  estimates every two years and convey this information to the Corporation.
  `(4) With respect to property that has been used in the production of
  low-assay separative work,
  `(A) The costs of decommissioning, decontamination and remedial action that
  shall be recoverable from customers other than the Department in prices and
  charges shall be in the same ratio to the total costs of decommissioning,
  decontamination and remedial action for the property in question as the
  production of separative work over the life of such property for commercial
  customers bears to the total production of separative work over the life
  of such property.
  `(B) All other costs of decommissioning, decontamination and remedial action
  for such property shall be recovered in prices and charges to the Department.
  `(5) With respect to property that has been used solely in the production of
  high-assay separative work, all costs of decommissioning, decontamination and
  remedial action shall be recovered in prices and charges to the Department.
  `SEC. 1509. AUDITS- In fiscal years during which an audit is not performed
  by the Comptroller General in accordance with the provisions of section
  9105 of title 31, United States Code, the financial transactions of the
  Corporation shall be audited by an independent firm or firms of nationally
  recognized certified public accountants who shall prepare such audits using
  standards appropriate for commercial corporate transactions. The fiscal
  year of the Corporation shall conform to the fiscal year of the United
  States. The General Accounting Office shall review such audits annually,
  and to the extent necessary, cause there to be a further examination of
  the Corporation using standards for commercial corporate transactions. Such
  audits shall be conducted at the place or places where the accounts of the
  Corporation are established and maintained. All books, financial records,
  reports, files, papers, memoranda, and other property of, or in use by,
  the Corporation shall be made available to the person or persons authorized
  to conduct audits in accordance with the provisions of this section.
  `SEC. 1510. Reports:
  `a. The Corporation shall prepare an annual report of its activities. This
  report shall contain--
  `(1) a general description of the Corporation's operations;
  `(2) a summary of the Corporation's operating and financial performance,
  including an explanation of the decision to pay or not pay dividends; and
  `(3) copies of audit reports prepared in conformance with section 1509 of
  this title and the provisions of the Government Corporation Control Act,
  as amended.
  `b. A copy of the annual report shall be provided to the President, the
  Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and
  the appropriate committees of the House of Representatives. Such reports
  shall be completed not later than ninety days following the close of each
  fiscal year and shall accurately reflect the financial position of the
  Corporation at fiscal year end, inclusive of any impairment of capital or
  ability of the Corporation to comply with the provisions of this title.
  `SEC. 1511. CONTROL OF INFORMATION:
  `a. The term `Commission' shall be deemed to include the Corporation
  wherever such term appears in section 141 and subsections a. and b. of
  section 142 of title I.
  `b. No contracts or arrangements shall be made, nor any contract continued
  in effect, under section 1401, 1402, 1403, or 1404, unless the person with
  whom such contract or arrangement is made, or the contractor or prospective
  contractor, agrees in writing not to permit any individual to have access to
  Restricted Data, as defined in section 11 y. of title I, until the Office
  of Personnel Management shall have made an investigation and report to the
  Corporation on the character, associations, and loyalty of such individual,
  and the Corporation shall have determined that permitting such person to have
  access to restricted data will not endanger the common defense and security.
  `c. The restrictions detailed in subsections b., c., d., e., f., g., and
  h., of section 145 of title I shall be deemed to apply to the Corporation
  where they refer to the Commission or a majority of the members of the
  Commission, and to the Administrator where they refer to the General Manager.
  `d. The Administrator shall keep the appropriate congressional committees
  fully and currently informed with respect to all of the Corporation's
  activities. To the extent consistent with the other provisions of this
  section, the Corporation shall make available to any of such committees
  all books, financial records, reports, files, papers, memoranda, or other
  information possessed by the Corporation upon receiving a request for such
  information from the chairman of such committee.
  `e. Whenever the Corporation submits to the President, or the Office of
  Management and Budget, any budget, legislative recommendation, testimony,
  or comments on legislation, prepared for submission to the Congress, the
  Corporation shall concurrently transmit a copy thereof to the appropriate
  committees of Congress.
  `f. The Corporation shall have no power to control or restrict the
  dissemination of information other than as granted by this or any other law.
  `SEC. 1512. PATENTS AND INVENTIONS:
  `a. The term `Commission' shall be deemed to include the Corporation
  wherever such term appears in section 152, 153b. (1), and 158 of title
  I. The Corporation shall pay such royalty fees for patents licensed to
  it under section 153 b. (1) of title I as are paid by the Department
  under that provision. Nothing in title I or this title shall affect the
  right of the Corporation to require that patents granted on inventions,
  that have been conceived or first reduced to practice during the course
  of research or operations of, or financed by the Corporation, be assigned
  to the Corporation.
  `b. The Department shall notify the Corporation of all reports heretofore
  or hereafter filed with it under subsection 151 c. of title I and all
  applications for patents heretofore or hereafter filed with the Commissioner
  of Patents of which the Department has notice under subsection 151 d. of
  title I or otherwise, whenever such reports or applications involve matters
  pertaining to the functions or responsibilities of the Corporation in
  accordance with this title. The Department shall make all such reports
  available to the Corporation, and the Commissioner of Patents shall
  provide the Corporation access to all such applications. All reports and
  applications to which access is so provided shall be kept in confidence
  by the Corporation, and no information concerning the same given without
  authority of the inventor or owner unless necessary to carry out the
  provisions of any Act of Congress.
  `c. The Corporation, without regard for any of the conditions specified
  in paragraph 153 c. (1), (2), (3), or (4) of title I, may at any time
  make application to the Department for a patent license for the use of
  an invention or discovery useful in the production or utilization of
  special nuclear material or atomic energy covered by a patent when such
  patent has not been declared to be affected with the public interest under
  subsection 153 b. (1) of title I and when use of such patent is within the
  Corporation's authority. Any such application shall constitute an application
  under subsection 153 c. of title I subject, except as specified above, to
  all the provisions of subsections 153 c., d., e., f., g., and h., of title I.
  `d. With respect to the Corporation's functions under this title, section
  158 of title I shall be deemed to include the Corporation within the phrase,
  `any other licensee' in the first sentence thereof and within the phrase
  `such licensee' in the second sentence thereof.
  `e. The Corporation shall not be liable directly or indirectly for any
  damages or financial responsibility with respect to secrecy orders imposed
  under section 181 of title 35, United States Code, through 187.
  `f. The Corporation shall not be liable or responsible for any payments
  made or awards under subsection 157 b.(3) of title I, or any settlements
  or judgments involving claims for alleged patent infringement except to
  the extent that any such awards, settlements or judgments are attributable
  to activities of the Corporation after the effective date of this title.
  `g. The Corporation shall keep currently informed as to matters affecting
  its rights and responsibilities under chapter 13 of title I as modified by
  this section and shall take all appropriate action to avail itself of such
  rights and satisfy such responsibilities. The Department in discharging
  its responsibilities under chapter 13 of title I shall exercise diligence
  in informing the Corporation of matters affecting the responsibilities and
  jurisdiction of the Corporation and seeking and following as appropriate
  the advice and recommendation of the Corporation in such matters.
`CHAPTER 26. LICENSING, TAXATION, AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
  `SEC. 1601. Licensing:
  `a. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect solely to
  facilities, equipment and materials for activities related to the isotopic
  separation of uranium by the gaseous diffusion technology at facilities
  in existence as of the date of enactment of this title, the Corporation
  and its contractors are hereby exempted from the licensing requirements
  and prohibitions of sections 57, 62, 81 and other provisions of title I,
  to the same extent as the Department and its contractors are exempt in
  regard to the Department's own functions and activities. Such exemption
  shall remain in effect unless and until the Corporation and its contractors
  receive all necessary licenses for such facilities, equipment and materials
  as are required under title I.
  `b. Within two years of the enactment of this title, the Commission shall
  promulgate regulations or issue other regulatory guidance under title I
  for the licensing of facilities described in subsection (a) that employ
  the gaseous diffusion technology.
  `c. Within one year after the promulgation of regulations or the issuance
  of other regulatory guidance under subsection (b), the Corporation and
  its contractors shall make necessary applications for and otherwise
  seek to obtain such licenses as will remove the exemption provided under
  subsection (a). As part of its application, the Corporation shall submit
  an Environmental Impact Statement in accordance with the requirements of
  the National Environmental Policy Act. The Commission shall adopt this
  statement to the extent practicable under the National Environmental
  Policy Act. In preparing such statement, the Corporation, and in making
  any licensing decision, the Commission, shall not consider the need for
  such facilities, alternatives to such facilities, or the costs compared
  to the benefits of such facilities. The Commission shall act on licensing
  requests by the Corporation in a timely manner.
  `d. The Corporation shall not transfer or deliver any source, special
  nuclear or byproduct materials or production or utilization facilities,
  as defined in title I, to any person who is not properly qualified or
  licensed under the provisions of title I.
  `e. The Corporation shall be subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the
  Commission and the Department of Transportation with respect to the packaging
  and transportation of source, special nuclear and byproduct materials.
  `SEC. 1602. Exemption From Taxation and Payments in Lieu of Taxes:
  `a. In order to render financial assistance to those States and localities
  in which the facilities of the Corporation are located, the Corporation is
  authorized and directed to make payments to State and local governments as
  provided in this section. Such payments shall be in lieu of any and all State
  and local taxes on the real and personal property, activities, and income of
  the Corporation. All property of the Corporation its activities and income
  are expressly exempted from taxation in any manner or form by any State,
  county, or other local government entity. The activities of the Corporation
  for this purpose shall include the activities of organizations pursuant to
  cost-type contracts with the Corporation to manage, operate, and maintain
  its facilities. The income of the Corporation shall include income received
  by such organizations for the account of the Corporation. The income of
  the Corporation shall not include income received by such organizations
  for their own accounts and such income shall not be exempt from taxation.
  `b. The Corporation shall make annual payments, in amounts determined by the
  Corporation to be fair and reasonable, to the State and local governmental
  agencies having tax jurisdiction in any area where facilities of the
  Corporation are located. In making such determinations, the Corporation
  shall be guided by the following criteria:
  `(1) Amounts paid shall not exceed the tax payments that would be made
  by a private industrial corporation owning similar facilities and engaged
  in similar activities at the same location: Provided, however, That there
  shall be excluded any amount that would be payable as a tax on net income.
  `(2) The Corporation shall take into account the customs and practices
  prevailing in the area with respect to appraisal, assessment, and
  classification of industrial property and any special considerations
  extended to large-scale industrial operations.
  `(3) No amount shall be included to the extent that any tax unfairly
  discriminates against the class of taxpayers of which the Corporation
  would be a member if it were a private industrial corporation, compared
  with other taxpayers or classes of taxpayers.
  `(4) In no event shall the payment made to any taxing authority for
  any period be less than the payments which would have been made to such
  taxing authority for the same period by the Department and its cost-type
  contractors on behalf of the Department with respect to property that has
  been transferred to the Corporation under section 1505 and which would have
  been attributable to the ownership, management operation, and maintenance
  of the Department's uranium enrichment facilities, applying the laws and
  policies prevailing immediately to the enactment of this title.
  `c. Payments shall be made by the Corporation at the time when payments of
  taxes by taxpayers to each taxing authority are due and payable: Provided,
  That no payment shall be made to the extent that the tax would apply to
  a period prior to the enactment of this title.
  `d. The determination by the Corporation of the amounts due hereunder
  shall be final and conclusive.
  `SEC. 1603. Miscellaneous Applicability of Title I:
  `a. Any references to the term `Commission' or to the Department in sections
  105 b., 110 a., 161 c., 161 k., 161 q., 165 a., 221 a., 229, 230, and 232
  of title I shall be deemed to include the Corporation.
  `b. Section 188 of title I shall apply to licensed facilities of the
  Corporation. For purposes of applying such section to facilities of the
  Corporation:
  `(1) The term `Commission' shall be deemed to refer to the Secretary;
  `(2) There shall be no requirement for payment of just compensation to
  the Corporation, and receipts from operation of the facility in question
  shall continue to accrue to the benefit of the Corporation; and
  `(3) The Secretary shall have the discretion to determine how and by whom
  the facility in question will be operated.
  `SEC. 1604. COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES- The Corporation is empowered
  to use with their consent the available services, equipment, personnel, and
  facilities of other civilian or military agencies and instrumentalities
  of the Federal Government, on a reimbursable basis and on a similar
  basis to cooperate with such other agencies and instrumentalities in
  the establishment and use of services, equipment, and facilities of the
  Corporation. Further, the Corporation may confer with and avail itself of
  the cooperation, services, records, and facilities of State, territorial,
  municipal or other local agencies.
  `SEC. 1605. Applicability of Antitrust Laws:
  `a. The Corporation shall conduct its activities in a manner consistent
  with the policies expressed in the antitrust laws, except as required by
  the public interest.
  `b. As used in this subsection, the term `antitrust laws' means:
  `(1) The Act entitled: `An Act to protect trade and commerce against
  unlawful restraints and monopolies,' approved July 2, 1890 (15 U.S.C. 1-7),
  as amended;
  `(2) The Act entitled, `An Act to supplement existing laws against unlawful
  restraints and monopolies, and for other purposes,' approved October 15,
  1914 (15 U.S.C. 12-27), as amended;
  `(3) Sections 73 and 74 of the Act entitled, `An Act to reduce taxation,
  to provide revenue for the Government, and for other purposes,' approved
  August 27, 1894 (15 U.S.C. 8 and 9), as amended; and
  `(4) The Act of June 19, 1936, chapter 592 (15 U.S.C. 13, 13a, 13b, and 21a).
  `SEC. 1606. NUCLEAR HAZARD INDEMNIFICATION- The Administrator shall have
  the same authority to indemnify the contractors of the Corporation as
  the Secretary has to indemnify contractors under section 170 d. of title
  I. Except that with respect to any licenses issued to the Corporation
  by the Commission, the Commission shall treat the Corporation and its
  contractors as its licensees for the purposes of section 170 of this Act.
  `SEC. 1607. INTENT- It is hereby declared to be the intent of this title to
  aid the Corporation in discharging its responsibilities under this title
  by providing it with adequate authority and administrative flexibility
  to obtain necessary funds with which to assure the maximum achievement of
  the purposes hereof as provided herein, and this title shall be construed
  liberally to effectuate such intent.
  `SEC. 1608. Report:
  `a. Three years after enactment of this title or January, 1993, whichever
  is later, the Administrator shall submit to the President and to Congress
  an interim report setting forth the views and recommendations of the
  Administrator regarding transfer of the functions, powers, duties, and
  assets of the Corporation to private ownership. Five years after enactment
  of this title, the Administrator shall submit to the President and the
  Congress a final report setting forth the views and recommendations of
  the Administrator regarding transfer of the functions, powers, duties,
  and assets of the Corporation to private ownership. If the Administrator,
  in the final report, recommends such transfers, the report shall include
  a plan for implementation of the transfers.
  `b. Within one hundred and eighty days after receipt of the final report
  under subsection (a), the President shall transmit to Congress his
  recommendations regarding the report, including a plan for implementation
  of any transfers recommended by the President and any recommendations for
  legislation necessary to effectuate such transfers.
`CHAPTER 27. DECONTAMINATION AND DECOMMISSIONING
  `SEC. 1701. Establishment:
  `a. ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- (1) There is hereby established in the Treasury
  of the United States an account of the Corporation to be known as the
  Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund (hereinafter
  referred to in this chapter as the `Fund'). In accordance with section 1402
  (j), such account and any funds deposited therein, shall be available to
  the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of carrying out the purposes of
  this chapter.
  `(2) The Fund shall consist of:
  `(A) Amounts paid into it by the Corporation in accordance with section
  1702; and
  `(B) Any interest earned under subsection (b)(2).
  `b. ADMINISTRATION OF FUND- (1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall hold
  the Fund and, after consultation with the Corporation, annually report to
  the Congress or the financial condition and operations of the Fund during
  the preceding fiscal year.
  `(2) At the direction of the Corporation, the Secretary of the Treasury
  shall invest amounts contained within such Fund in obligations of the
  United States:
  `(A) Having maturities determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be
  appropriate to the needs of the Fund, as determined by the Corporation; and
  `(B) Bearing interest at rates determined to be appropriate by the Secretary
  of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yield
  on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
  periods to maturity comparable to such obligations.
  `(3) At the request of the Corporation, the Secretary of the Treasury
  shall sell such obligations and credit the proceeds to the Fund.
  `SEC. 1702. DEPOSITS- Within sixty days of the end of each fiscal year,
  the Corporation shall make a payment into the Fund in an amount equal to the
  costs of decontamination and decommissioning that have been recovered during
  such fiscal year by the Corporation in its prices and charges established
  in accordance with section 1508 for products, materials, and services.
  `SEC. 1703. Performance and Disbursements:
  `a. When the Corporation determines that particular property should be
  decommissioned or decontaminated, or both, or with respect to the Oak
  Ridge Gaseous Diffusion Plant at such time as the plant is conveyed to
  the Corporation, the Corporation shall enter into a contract for the
  performance of such decommissioning and decontamination.
  `b. The Corporation shall pay for the costs of such decommissioning and
  decontamination out of amounts contained within the Fund.'.
  SEC. 113. TREATMENT OF THE CORPORATION AS BEING PRIVATELY-OWNED FOR PURPOSES
  OF THE APPLICABILITY OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY LAWS- The
  United States Enrichment Corporation shall be subject to Federal, State
  and local environmental laws and the Occupational Safety and Health Act
  (29 U.S.C. 651-678) to the same extent as is the Department of Energy as
  of the date of enactment. After four years from the date of enactment of
  this title, the United States Enrichment Corporation shall become subject
  to such laws to the same extent as a privately-owned corporation, unless
  the President determines that additional time is necessary to achieve the
  purposes of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
  SEC. 114. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS- (a) Section 9101(3) of title 31,
  United States Code (relating to the definition of `wholly-owned Government
  corporation') is amended by adding at the end of the following: `(N)
  United States Enrichment Corporation.'.
  (b) In subsection 41 a. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended,
  the word `or' appearing before the numeral `(2)' is deleted, a semicolon
  is substituted for a period at the end of the subsection and the following
  new paragraph is added: `or (3) are owned by the United States Enrichment
  Corporation.'.
  (c) In subsection 53 c. (1) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended,
  the word `or' is inserted before the word `grant' and the phrase `or
  through the provision of production or enrichment services' is deleted in
  both places where it appears in such subsection.
  (d) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, is further amended:
  (1) By adding before the period at the end of the definition of the term
  `production facility' in section 11 v. a colon and the following: `Provided,
  however, That as the term is used in chapters 10 and 16 of this Act, other
  than with respect to export of a uranium enrichment production facility,
  it shall not include any equipment or device, or important component part
  especially designed therefor, capable of separating the isotopes of uranium
  or enriching uranium in the isotope 235';
  (2) By striking the period at the end of section 161 b. and adding the
  following: `; in addition, the Commission shall prescribe such regulations
  or orders as may be necessary or desirable to promote the Nation's common
  defense and security with regard to control, ownership or possession of
  any equipment or device, or important component part especially designed
  therefor, capable of separating the isotopes of uranium or enriching
  uranium in the isotope 235;';
  (3) By striking the phrase `section 103 or 104' in section 41 a. (2)
  and inserting in lieu thereof `this title'; and
  (4) In section 236 by striking the word `or' following paragraph (2)
  and adding after paragraph (3) `or (4) any uranium enrichment facility
  licensed by the Commission;'.
  (5) In section 318(1) by striking the period after `activities' and by
  adding the following:
  `(D) any facility owned by the United States Enrichment Corporation.'.
  (e) Subsection 905(g)(1) of title II, United States Code, is amended to
  include `United States Enrichment Corporation' at the end thereof.
  (f) Section 306 of title III of the Energy and Water Development
  Appropriations Act, 1988, Public Law 100-202, is repealed.
  SEC. 115. LIMITATION ON EXPENDITURES- For fiscal year 1990, total
  expenditures of the United States Enrichment Corporation shall not exceed
  total receipts.
  SEC. 116. SEVERABILITY- In any provision of this title, or the application
  of any provisions to any entity, person or circumstance, shall for any
  reason be adjudged by a court of component jurisdiction to be invalid,
  the remainder of this act, or the application of the same shall not be
  thereby affected.
  SEC. 117. EFFECTIVE DATE- Except as otherwise provided, all provisions of
  this title shall take effect on the day following the end of the first
  full fiscal year quarter following the enactment of this act; Provided,
  however, That the Administrator or Acting Administrator of the United
  States Enrichment Corporation may immediately exercise the management
  responsibilities and powers of subsection 1501 (a) of the Atomic Energy
  Act of 1954, as amended by this Act and previous Acts.
TITLE II--URANIUM
Subtitle A--Short Title, Findings and Purpose, Definitions
  This title may be cited as the `Uranium Security and Tailings Reclamation
  Act of 1989'.
SEC. 202. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds for purposes of this title that--
  (1) the United States uranium industry has long been recognized as vital
  to United States energy independence and as essential to United States
  national security, but has suffered a drastic economic setback, including
  a 90 per centum reduction in employment, closure of almost all mines and
  mills, more than a 75 percent drop in production, and a permanent loss of
  uranium reserves;
  (2) during the remainder of this century approximately 20 per centum of
  United States electricity is expected to be produced from uranium fueled
  powerplants owned by domestic electric utilities;
  (3) the United States has been the leading uranium producing nation and
  holds extensive proven reserves of natural uranium that offer the potential
  for secure sources of future supply;
  (4) a variety of economic factors, policies of foreign governments,
  foreign export practices, the discovery and development of low cost
  foreign reserves, new Federal regulatory requirements, and cancellation
  of nuclear powerplants have caused most United States producers to close
  or suspend operations over the past six years and have resulted in the
  domestic uranium industry being found `not viable' by the Secretary under
  provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
  (5) providing assistance to the domestic uranium industry is essential to--
  (A) preclude an undue threat from foreign supply disruptions that could
  hinder the Nation's common defense and security,
  (B) assure an adequate long-term supply of domestic uranium for the
  Nation's nuclear power program to preclude an undue threat from foreign
  supply disruptions or price controls, and
  (C) aid in the Nation's balance-of-trade payments through foreign sales;
  (6) the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (42
  U.S.C. 7901-7942);
  (A) was enacted to provide for the reclamation and regulation of uranium
  and thorium mill tailings; and
  (B) did not provide for a Federal contribution for the reclamation of
  tailings at uranium and thorium processing sites which were generated
  pursuant to Federal defense contracts;
  (7) the owners of licensees of active uranium and thorium sites and the
  Federal Government have each benefited from uranium and thorium produced
  at the active sites, and it is equitable that they share in the costs of
  reclamation, decommissioning and other remedial actions at the commingled
  sites; and
  (B) the creation of an assured system of financing will greatly facilitate
  and expedite reclamation and remedial actions at active uranium and thorium
  processing sites.
  (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of subtitles B and C of this title to--
  (1) ensure an adequate long-term supply of domestic uranium for the Nation's
  common defense and security and for the Nation's nuclear power program;
  (2) provide assistance to the domestic uranium industry; and
  (3) establish, facilitate, and expedite a comprehensive system for
  financing reclamation and other remedial action at active uranium and
  thorium processing sites.
SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this title--
  (1) the term `active site' means--
  (A) any uranium or thorium processing site, including the mill, containing
  by-product material for which a license (issued by the Nuclear Regulatory
  Commission or its predecessor agency under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
  as amended, or by a State as permitted under section 274 of such Act (42
  U.S.C. 2021)) for the production at such site of any uranium or thorium
  derived from ore--
  (i) was in effect on January 1, 1978;
  (ii) was issued or renewed after January 1, 1978; or
  (iii) for which an application for renewal or issuance was pending on,
  or after January 1, 1978; and
  (B) any other real property or improvement on such real property that is
  determined by the Commission to be--
  (i) in the vicinity of such site; and
  (ii) contaminated with residual by-product material;
  (2) the term `byproduct material' has the meaning given such term in
  section 11 e. (2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42
  U.S.C. 2014(e)(2));
  (3) the term `civilian nuclear power reactor' means any civilian nuclear
  powerplant required to be licensed under section 103 or section 104 of
  the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2133);
  (4) the term `Corporation' means the United States Enrichment Corporation
  established under section 1202 of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
  as amended;
  (5) the term `Department' means the Department of Energy;
  (6) the term `domestic uranium' means any uranium that has been mined in
  the United States including uranium recovered from uranium deposits in
  the United States by underground mining, open-pit mining, strip mining,
  in situ recovery, leaching, and ion recovery, or recovered from phosphoric
  acid manufactured in the United States;
  (7) the term `domestic uranium producer' means a person or entity who
  produces domestic uranium and who has, to the extent required by State
  and Federal agencies having jurisdiction, licenses and permits for the
  operation, decontamination, decommissioning, and reclamation of sites,
  structures and equipment;
  (8) the term `enrichment tails' means uranium in which the quantity of
  the U-235 isotope has been depleted in the enrichment process;
  (9) the term `reclamation, decommissioning, and other remedial action'
  includes work, including but not limited to disposal work, accomplished in
  order to comply with all applicable requirements, including but not limited
  to those established pursuant to the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control
  Act of 1978, as amended, or where appropriate, with requirements established
  by a State that is a party to a discontinuance agreement under section 274
  of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2021). The term
  shall also include work at an active site prior to the date of enactment
  of this act accomplished in order to comply with the foregoing requirements;
  (10) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Energy;
  (11) the terms `source material' and `special nuclear material' have the
  meaning given such terms in section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954,
  as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014); and
  (12) the term `tailings' means the wastes produced by the extraction or
  concentration of uranium or thorium from any ore processed primarily for
  its source material content.
Subtitle B--Uranium Revitalization
SEC. 210. VOLUNTARY OVERFEED PROGRAM.
  (a) The Corporation shall establish, for a period of not less than
  five years commencing at the beginning of fiscal year 1991, a voluntary
  overfeeding program which shall be made available to the Corporation's
  enrichment services customers. The term `overfeeding' means the use of
  uranium in the enrichment process in excess of the amount required at the
  transactional tails assay.
  (b) The Corporation shall encourage its enrichment services customers
  to participate in the voluntary overfeeding program as provided in this
  section. Uranium supplied by the enrichment customer shall be used by the
  Corporation for voluntary overfeeding in the enrichment process to reduce
  the amount of power required to produce the enriched uranium ordered by the
  enrichment services customer. The dollar savings resulting from the reduced
  power requirements shall be credited to the enrichment services customer.
  (c) In the event an enrichment services customer does not elect to provide
  uranium for voluntary overfeeding to be used to process its enrichment
  order, the Corporation shall establish a method for such uranium to be
  voluntarily supplied by other enrichment services customer(s) which have
  expressed to the Corporation an interest in participating in such a program
  and the Corporation shall credit the resulting dollar savings realized
  from the reduced power requirements to the enrichment services customer(s)
  providing the uranium.
  (d) An enrichment services customer providing uranium for voluntary
  overfeeding shall certify to the Corporation that such uranium is domestic
  uranium which has been actually produced by a domestic uranium producer
  after the enactment of this Act or domestic uranium actually produced by
  a domestic uranium producer before the enactment of this Act and held by
  it without sale, transfer or redesignation of the origin of such uranium
  on a DOE/NRC form 741.
  (e) Within ninety days of the date of enactment of this Act, the Corporation
  shall establish procedures to implement this program. Such procedures
  shall include, but not be limited to, delivery reporting and certification
  requirements, and provisions for failure to comply with the requirements
  of the voluntary overfeeding program. The determination of the voluntary
  overfeeding credit and sufficient data to support such determination shall
  be available to the Corporation's enrichment services customers and to
  qualified domestic producers.
SEC. 211. NATIONAL STRATEGIC URANIUM RESERVE.
  There is hereby established the National Strategic Uranium Reserve under
  the direction and control of the Secretary. The Reserve shall consist of
  50,000,000 pounds of natural uranium contained in stockpiles or inventories
  currently held by the United States for defense purposes. Effective on
  the date of enactment of this Act, use of the Reserve shall be retricted
  to military purposes and Government research. Use of the Department's
  stockpile of enrichment tails existing on the date of enactment of this
  Act shall be restricted to military purposes.
SEC. 212. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE INDUSTRY.
  (a) The Secretary shall have a continuing responsibility for the domestic
  uranium industry, and shall take any action, which he determines to be
  appropriate under existing law, to encourage the use of domestic uranium;
  Provided, however, That the Secretary, in fulfilling this responsibility,
  shall not use any supervisory authority over the Corporation. The Secretary
  shall report annually to the appropriate committees of Congress on action
  taken with respect to the domestic uranium industry, including action
  to promote the export of domestic uranium pursuant to paragraph (b) of
  this section.
  (b) ENCOURAGE EXPORT- The Department, with the cooperation of the Department
  of Commerce, the United States Trade Representative and other governmental
  organizations, shall encourage the export of domestic uranium. Within one
  hundred and eighty days of the date of enactment of this Act the Secretary
  shall develop recommendations and implement government programs to promote
  the export of domestic uranium.
SEC. 213. GOVERNMENT URANIUM PURCHASES.
  (a) After the date of enactment of this Act, the United States of America,
  its agencies and instrumentalities, shall only have the authority to
  enter into contracts or orders for the purchase of uranium which is (1)
  of domestic origin and (2) is purchased from domestic uranium producers:
  Provided, That this section shall not affect purchases under a contract
  for delivery of a fixed amount of uranium entered into before the date of
  enactment of this Act.
  (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to the Tennessee Valley Authority.
SEC. 214. SECRETARY'S AUTHORITY TO MAKE REGULATIONS.
  The Secretary shall issue appropriate regulations to implement the purposes
  of this title.
Subtitle C--Remedial Action for Active Processing Sites
SEC. 220. REMEDIAL ACTION PROGRAM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), the costs of
  decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action
  at an active uranium or thorium processing site shall be borne by persons
  licensed under section 62 or 81 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42
  U.S.C. 2091, 2111) for any activity at such site which results or has
  resulted in the production of byproduct material.
  (b) REIMBURSEMENT-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall, subject to paragraph (2), reimburse at
  least annually a licensee described in subsection (a) for such portion of
  the reclamation, decommissioning and other remedial action costs described
  in such subsection as are--
  (A) determined by the Secretary to be attributable to tailings generated
  as an incident of sales to the United States; and
  (B) incurred by such licensee not later than December 31, 2002.
  (2) AMOUNT-
  (A) TO INDIVIDUAL ACTIVE SITE URANIUM LICENSEES- The amount of reimbursement
  paid to any licensee under paragraph (1) shall be determined by the Secretary
  in accordance with regulations issued pursuant to section 221 and shall
  not exceed an amount equal to $4.50 multiplied by the dry short tons of
  tailings located at the site as of the effective date of this title and
  generated as an incident of sales to the United States.
  (B) TO ALL ACTIVE SITE URANIUM LICENSEES- Payments made under paragraph
  (1) to active site uranium licensees shall not in the aggregate exceed
  $270,000,000.
  (C) TO THORIUM LICENSEES- Payments made under paragraph (1) to the licensee
  of the active thorium site shall not exceed $30,000,000.
  (D) INFLATION ESCALATION INDEX- The amounts in subsections (A), (B), and
  (C) of this section shall be increased annually based upon an inflation
  index. The Secretary shall determine the appropriate index to apply.
  (E) ADDITIONAL REIMBURSEMENT- Provided however, (i) the Secretary
  shall determine as of July 31, 2005, whether the amount authorized to
  be appropriated in section 222, when considered with the $4.50 per dry
  short ton limit on reimbursement, exceeds the total cost reimbursable to
  the licensees of active sites for reclamation, decommissioning and other
  remedial action; and (ii) if the Secretary determines there is an excess,
  the Secretary may allow reimbursement in excess of $4.50 per dry short
  ton on a prorated basis at such sites that reclamation, decommissioning
  and other remedial action costs for tailings generated as an incident of
  sales to the United States exceed the $4.50 per dry short ton limitation.
SEC. 221. REGULATIONS.
  The Secretary shall issue regulations governing reimbursement under
  section 220. An active uranium or thorium processing site owner shall
  apply for reimbursement hereunder by submitting a statement for the
  amount of reimbursement, together with reasonable documentation in
  support thereof, to the Secretary. Any such statement for reimbursement,
  supported by reasonable documentation, shall be approved by the Secretary
  and reimbursement therefor shall be made in a timely manner subject only
  to the limitations of section 220.
SEC. 222. AUTHORIZATION.
  There is authorized to be appropriated for purposes of this subtitle not
  more than $300,000,000 increased annually as provided in section 220 based
  upon an inflation index as determined by the Secretary.
  Amend the title so as to read: `A bill to establish the United States
  Enrichment Corporation to operate the Federal uranium enrichment program
  on a profitable and efficient basis in order to maximize the long term
  economic value to the United States, to provide assistance to the domestic
  uranium industry and to provide a Federal contribution for the reclamation
  of mill tailings generated pursuant to Federal defense contracts at active
  uranium and thorium processing sites.'.
S 83 RS1S----2
S 83 RS1S----3
S 83 RS1S----4
S 83 RS1S----5