Calendar No. 180
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 869
[Report No. 102-118]
A BILL
To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the availability of treatment
of veterans for post-traumatic stress disorder; and for other purposes.
July 24 (legislative day, JULY 8), 1991
Reported with an amendment and an amendment to the title
S 869 RS
Calendar No. 180
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 869
[Report No. 102-118]
To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the availability of treatment
of veterans for post-traumatic stress disorder; and for other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
April 18 (legislative day, APRIL 9), 1991
Mr. CRANSTON (for himself, Mr. DECONCINI, Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. AKAKA,
Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. KERRY, Mr. WIRTH, and Mr. PELL) introduced the following bill;
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs
July 24 (legislative day, JULY 8), 1991
Reported by Mr. CRANSTON, with an amendment and an amendment to the title
[Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed
in italic]
A BILL
To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the availability of treatment
of veterans for post-traumatic stress disorder; and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
 [Struck out->]   This Act may be cited as the `Veterans Post-Traumatic
 Stress Disorder Treatment Act of 1991'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SECTION 1. FINDINGS. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   The Congress finds the following: [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a highly
 disruptive and debilitating psychological disorder that can result from
 exposure to combat or any other traumatic event outside the range of
 conventional human experience. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) Post-traumatic stress disorder can have a destructive
 impact on the life of a person suffering from the disorder by adversely
 affecting his or her behavior, ability to work with, relate to, and
 communicate with others, and ability to maintain gainful employment. [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (3) In 1980, the American Psychiatric Association officially
 recognized PTSD as a diagnosis in its `Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
 of Mental Disorders (Third edition)' and identified combat experience as
 a potential cause for PTSD. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (4) A Congressionally-mandated study of Vietnam-era veterans,
 released in November 1988, regarding the frequency of symptoms of PTSD and
 other problems relating to readjustment from combat of such veterans, found
 that 479,000 male veterans of the Vietnam theater of operations (representing
 15.2 percent of all such male veterans) suffered from the full effects of
 PTSD and that another 350,000 of such veterans (representing 11.2 percent of
 all such male veterans) experienced some symptoms of the PTSD. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (5) That study also found higher incidences of PTSD among
 Black and Hispanic male veterans of the Vietnam theater of operations than
 among all male veterans of that theater, but did not include data on the
 incidence of the disorder among veterans of other ethnic groups. [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (6) A large body of evidence indicates that such
 psychological disorders related to combat stress as war neurosis, combat
 fatigue, and the disorder commonly known as `shell shock' are analogous
 to PTSD and that thousands of veterans of combat in World War II and
 the Korean War experienced and continue to experience symptoms of such
 disorders. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (7) That evidence also indicates that veterans of combat in
 military operations conducted after the Vietnam era, including operations in
 Lebanon, Grenada, and Panama, also suffer from symptoms of PTSD. [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (8) Although debilitating, PTSD can be treated successfully,
 and an individual experiencing the disorder can learn coping skills, including
 how to mitigate the effects of the anxiety, depression, anger, guilt, fear,
 alienation, and emotional outbursts that he or she experiences. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (9) Early intervention and treatment of acute PTSD can
 be an important part of a therapeutic course to prevent long-term, chronic
 PTSD. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (10) The Department of Veterans Affairs has a responsibility
 to provide opportunities for treatment of PTSD and other stress-related
 psychological problems to the hundreds of thousands of combat veterans
 who suffer from PTSD and to conduct outreach activities that provide both
 actual notice of the availability of such treatment to those veterans
 and appropriate encouragement for such veterans to participate in the
 treatment. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (11) The Department has made some progress in expanding
 diagnosis and treatment programs relating to PTSD. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (12) Through readjustment counseling, specialized inpatient
 and outpatient programs, and general psychiatric services offered in
 its hospitals and outpatient clinics, the Department has provided needed
 treatment to thousands of veterans for PTSD. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (13) Despite such progress the Department can and should
 be doing much more to provide treatment to veterans for PTSD and other
 stress-related psychological problems and to provide outreach services to
 make veterans aware of, and encourage them to participate in, treatment
 opportunities available through the Department. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (14) It is in the public interest for the Secretary
 of Veterans Affairs to develop a plan that ensures immediate, on-demand
 treatment opportunities for the thousands of veterans who suffer from, and
 need treatment for, this disruptive, life-threatening disorder. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 2. CARE FOR COMBAT-THEATER VETERANS WITH SERVICE-RELATED
 POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) REQUIREMENT TO FURNISH CARE AND SERVICES- (1) Section
 602 of title 38, United States Code, is amended-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (A) by inserting `(a)' before `For'; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(b)(1) A veteran referred to in paragraph (2)(A) who is
 diagnosed by a mental health professional designated by the Chief Medical
 Director (following an examination of the veteran by such professional) to
 be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder related to service referred
 to in such paragraph shall be furnished care and services for such disorder
 pursuant to sections 610(a)(1)(A) and 612(a)(1)(A) of this title even though
 such disorder has not been determined to be service-connected. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(2)(A) A veteran eligible for the care and services
 referred to in paragraph (1) is a veteran who, as determined by the Chief
 Benefits Director, served on active duty in a theater of combat operations
 (as defined by the Secretary) during World War II, the Korean conflict,
 the Vietnam era, the Persian Gulf War, or in any other area during a period
 in which hostilities occurred in such area. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(B) In the case of a veteran who is diagnosed as suffering
 from post-traumatic stress disorder, the determination of whether the
 veteran served on active duty as described in subparagraph (A) shall be
 made by the most expeditious means practicable. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(c) For the purposes of subsection (b) of this section,
 the term `hostilities' means an armed conflict in which members of the Armed
 Forces are subjected to danger comparable to the danger to which members
 of the Armed Forces have been subjected in combat with enemy armed forces
 during a period of war, as determined by the Secretary in consultation with
 the Secretary of Defense.'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2)(A) The heading of such section is amended to read as
 follows: [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] `Sec. 602. Special provisions relating to mental illness
 disabilities' [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) The item relating to such section in the table of
 sections at the beginning of chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code,
 is amended to read as follows: [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] `602. Special provisions relating to mental illness
 disabilities.'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) TIMELINESS OF EVALUATION AND VERIFICATION OF STATUS-
 Section 612A of title 38, United States Code, is amended-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (j);
 and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new
 subsection (i): [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(i) Whenever a veteran is referred by a center to a
 Department general health-care facility for a determination regarding such
 veteran's eligibility for care and services under section 602(b) of this
 title, the veteran shall be evaluated for diagnostic purposes within 7 days
 after the date on which the referral is made.'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 3. ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICES AT VET CENTERS. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   Subsection (a) of section 612A of title 38, United
 States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   `(3) Upon the request of any veteran who served on active
 duty in a theater of combat operations (as defined by the Secretary)
 during World War II or the Korean conflict, the Secretary shall furnish
 counseling to such veteran in order to assist the veteran to overcome
 any psychological problems associated with such service. The counseling
 shall include a general mental and psychological assessment to ascertain
 whether the veteran has mental or psychological problems associated with
 such service.'. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 4. IMPROVEMENT OF POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER TREATMENT
 AND OUTREACH SERVICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) PLAN FOR TREATMENT AND OUTREACH SERVICES IMPROVEMENT-
 Not later than December 1, 1991, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
 devise and initiate implementation of a plan-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) to increase the availability of treatment of veterans
 suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder by the Department of Veterans
 Affairs (including treatment provided in inpatient and outpatient programs
 providing specialized treatment for PTSD, treatment for PTSD in conjunction
 with substance abuse, and treatment in Vet centers) to levels commensurate
 with the needs of veterans suffering from the disorder as a result of active
 duty; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) to enhance outreach activities-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (A) to inform combat veterans (including veterans who are
 members of ethnic minority groups), the family members of such veterans,
 and appropriate State and local health organizations and social service
 organizations of the availability of such treatment; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) to provide appropriate encouragement for such veterans
 to participate in such treatment. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) IMPLEMENTATION- In carrying out the plan for the
 improvement of the provision of treatment and outreach activities referred
 to in subsection (a), the Secretary shall-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) prescribe a schedule for the implementation of the plan;
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) prescribe appropriate criteria for the selection and
 training of staff necessary to increase the availability of the treatment
 and enhance the outreach activities referred to in such subsection; and
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3) provide the facilities, personnel, funds, and other
 resources necessary to carry out the plan. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (c) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section:
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) The term `Vet center' shall have the meaning given
 the term `center' in section 612A(j)(1) of title 38, United States
 Code. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) The term `active duty' shall have the meaning given
 such term in section 101(21) of such title. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3) The term `veteran' shall have the meaning given such
 term in section 101(2) of such title. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 5. REPORT BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS. [<-Struck
 out]
 [Struck out->]   (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 90 days after the date of
 the enactment of this Act and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of
 Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
 Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the plan required by
 section 4. The report shall contain the following information: [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) A description of the plan. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) What facilities, personnel, funds, and other resources
 are necessary to increase the availability of treatment and enhance outreach
 activities in accordance with the plan. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3) A description of the efforts undertaken by the
 Secretary to make such resources available for the treatment of veterans
 for post-traumatic stress disorder. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (4) An estimate of the availability of community-based
 residential treatment of veterans for post-traumatic stress disorder and the
 impact of such availability on the increased availability of such treatment
 by the Department. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (5) An assessment of the need for, and potential benefit of,
 making available scholarships, tuition reimbursement, or other educational
 assistance to health care students and health care professionals in order to
 improve the training and specialization of such individuals in the provision
 of such treatment. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (6) Such other proposals and recommendations as the
 Secretary considers appropriate to increase the availability of such
 treatment. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (b) REPORT ASSISTANCE- In preparing the report referred to
 in subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the Special Committee
 on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder established pursuant to section 110(b)
 of Public Law 98-528 (38 U.S.C. 612A note) and the Secretary's Advisory
 Committee on Readjustment of Vietnam Veterans. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->] SEC. 6. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS. [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   Section 612A of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (1) in subsection (a), by striking out `Administrator'
 and `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Secretary' and `Department', respectively; [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (2) in subsection (h)-- [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (A) by striking out `Administrator' and `Veterans'
 Administration' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
 `Secretary' and `Department', respectively; and [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (B) in paragraph (5), by striking out `the Secretary
 considers' and inserting in lieu thereof `such Secretary considers'; and
 [<-Struck out]
 [Struck out->]   (3) in subsection (j) (as redesignated by section 2(b)(1)),
 by striking out `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `Department'. [<-Struck out]
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Veterans Health Care
  Amendments Act of 1991'.
  (b) REFERENCES TO TITLE 38- Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever
  in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to,
  or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered
  to be made to a section or other provision of title 38, United States Code.
TITLE I--MENTAL HEALTH
Part A--Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This part may be cited as the `Veterans Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
  Treatment Act of 1991'.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds the following:
  (1) Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a highly disruptive and
  debilitating psychological disorder that can result from exposure to
  combat or any other traumatic event outside the range of conventional
  human experience.
  (2) Post-traumatic stress disorder can have a destructive impact on the
  life of a person suffering from the disorder by adversely affecting his or
  her behavior, ability to work with, relate to, and communicate with others,
  and ability to maintain gainful employment.
  (3) In 1980, the American Psychiatric Association officially recognized
  PTSD as a diagnosis in its `Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
  Disorders (Third edition)' and identified combat experience as a potential
  cause for PTSD.
  (4) A Congressionally-mandated study of Vietnam-era veterans, released
  in November 1988, regarding the frequency of symptoms of PTSD and other
  problems relating to readjustment from combat of such veterans, found that
  479,000 male veterans of the Vietnam theater of operations (representing
  15.2 percent of all such male veterans) suffered from the full effects of
  PTSD and that another 350,000 of such veterans (representing 11.2 percent
  of all such male veterans) experienced some symptoms of the PTSD.
  (5) That study also found higher incidences of PTSD among Black and Hispanic
  male veterans of the Vietnam theater of operations than among all male
  veterans of that theater, but did not include data on the incidence of
  the disorder among veterans of other ethnic groups.
  (6) A large body of evidence indicates that such psychological disorders
  related to combat stress as war neurosis, combat fatigue, and the disorder
  commonly known as `shell shock' are analogous to PTSD and that thousands
  of veterans of combat in World War II and the Korean war experienced and
  continue to experience symptoms of such disorders.
  (7) That evidence also indicates that veterans of combat in military
  operations conducted after the Vietnam era, including operations in Lebanon,
  Granada, and Panama, also suffer from symptoms of PTSD.
  (8) Although debilitating, PTSD can be treated successfully, and an
  individual experiencing the disorder can learn coping skills, including
  how to mitigate the effects of the anxiety, depression, anger, guilt,
  fear, alienation, and emotional outbursts that he or she experiences.
  (9) Early intervention and treatment of acute PTSD can be an important
  part of a therapeutic course to prevent long-term chronic PTSD.
  (10) The Department of Veterans Affairs has a responsibility to provide
  opportunities for treatment of PTSD and other stress-related psychological
  problems to the hundreds of thousands of combat veterans who suffer from
  PTSD and to conduct outreach activities that provide both actual notice
  of the availability of such treatment to those veterans and appropriate
  encouragement for such veterans to participate in the treatment.
  (11) The Department has made some progress in expanding diagnosis and
  treatment programs relating to PTSD.
  (12) Through readjustment counseling, specialized inpatient and outpatient
  programs, and general psychiatric services offered in its hospitals
  and outpatient clinics, the Department has provided needed treatment to
  thousands of veterans for PTSD.
  (13) Despite such progress the Department can and should be doing much
  more to provide treatment to veterans for PTSD and other stress-related
  psychological problems and to provide outreach services to make veterans
  aware of, and encourage them to participate in, treatment opportunities
  available through the Department.
  (14) It is in the public interest for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
  develop a plan that ensures immediate, on-demand treatment opportunities
  for the thousands of veterans who suffer from, and need treatment for,
  this disruptive, life-threatening disorder.
SEC. 103. CARE FOR COMBAT-THEATER VETERANS WITH SERVICE-RELATED POST-TRAUMATIC
STRESS DISORDER.
  (a) REQUIREMENT TO FURNISH CARE AND SERVICES- (1) Section 602 is amended--
  (A) by inserting `(a)' before `For'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(b)(1) A veteran referred to in paragraph (2)(A) who is diagnosed by
  a mental health professional designated by the Chief Medical Director
  (following an examination of the veteran by such professional) to be
  suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder related to service referred to
  in such paragraph shall be furnished care and services for such disorder
  pursuant to sections 610(a)(1)(A) and 612(a)(1)(A) of this title even
  though such disorder has not been determined to be service connected.
  `(2)(A) A veteran eligible for the care and services referred to in paragraph
  (1) is a veteran who, as determined by the Chief Benefits Director, served on
  active duty in a theater of combat operations (as defined by the Secretary)
  during World War II, the Korean conflict, the Vietnam era, the Persian Gulf
  War, or in any other area during a period in which hostilities occurred
  in such area.
  `(B) In the case of a veteran who is diagnosed as suffering from
  post-traumatic stress disorder, the determination of whether the veteran
  served on active duty as described in subparagraph (A) shall be made by
  the most expeditious means practicable.
  `(c) For the purposes of subsection (b) of this section, the term
  `hostilities' means an armed conflict in which members of the Armed Forces
  are subjected to danger comparable to the danger to which members of the
  Armed Forces have been subjected in combat with enemy armed forces during
  a period of war, as determined by the Secretary in consultation with the
  Secretary of Defense.'.
  (2)(A) The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 602. Special provisions relating to mental illness disabilities'.
  (B) The item relating to such section in the table of sections at the
  beginning of chapter 17 is amended to read as follows:
`602. Special provisions relating to mental illness disabilities.'.
  (b) TIMELINESS OF EVALUATION AND VERIFICATION OF STATUS- Section 612A
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (j); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new subsection (i):
  `(i) Whenever a veteran is referred by a center to a Department general
  health-care facility for a determination regarding such veteran's
  eligibility for care and services under section 602(b) of this title,
  the veteran shall be evaluated for diagnostic purposes within seven days
  after the date on which the referral is made.'.
SEC. 104. ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICES AT VET CENTERS.
  Subsection (a) of section 612A is amended by adding at the end the following
  new paragraph:
  `(3) Upon the request of any veteran who served on active duty in a
  theater of combat operations (as defined by the Secretary) during World
  War II or the Korean conflict, the Secretary shall furnish counseling to
  such veteran in order to assist the veteran to overcome any psychological
  problems associated with such service. The counseling shall include a
  general mental and psychological assessment to ascertain whether the
  veteran has mental or psychological problems associated with such service.'.
SEC. 105. IMPROVEMENT OF POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER TREATMENT AND OUTREACH
SERVICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
  (a) PLAN FOR TREATMENT AND OUTREACH SERVICES IMPROVEMENT- Not later than
  December 1, 1991, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall devise and
  initiate implementation of a plan--
  (1) to increase the availability of treatment of veterans suffering
  from post-traumatic stress disorder by the Department of Veterans Affairs
  (including treatment provided in inpatient and outpatient programs providing
  specialized treatment for PTSD, treatment for PTSD in conjunction with
  substance abuse, and treatment in Vet Centers) to levels commensurate with
  the needs of veterans suffering from the disorder as a result of active
  duty; and
  (2) to enhance outreach activities--
  (A) to inform combat veterans (including veterans who are members of ethnic
  minority groups), the family members of such veterans, and appropriate
  State and local health organizations and social service organizations of
  the availability of such treatment; and
  (B) to provide appropriate encouragement for such veterans to participate
  in such treatment.
  (b) SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS- In devising the plan, the Secretary shall
  consider--
  (1) the level and geographic accessibility of inpatient and outpatient
  care for veterans suffering from PTSD across the United States;
  (2) the desirability of providing for inpatient PTSD care to be furnished to
  such veterans in facilities of the Department that are physically independent
  of general psychiatric wards of the medical facilities of the Department; and
  (3) the treatment needs of such veterans who are women, of such veterans
  who are members of ethnic minorities (including Native Americans, Native
  Hawaiians, Asian-Pacific Islanders, and Native Alaskans), and of such
  veterans who suffer from substance abuse problems as well as PTSD.
  (c) IMPLEMENTATION- In carrying out the plan, the Secretary shall--
  (1) prescribe a schedule for the implementation of the plan;
  (2) prescribe appropriate criteria for the selection and training of staff
  necessary to increase the availability of the treatment and enhance the
  outreach activities referred to in subsection (a); and
  (3) provide the facilities, personnel, funds, and other resources necessary
  to carry out the plan.
  (d) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section:
  (1) The term `Vet Center' shall have the meaning given the term `center'
  in section 612A(j)(1) of title 38, United States Code (as redesignated by
  section 103(b)(1) of this Act).
  (2) The term `active duty' shall have the meaning given such term in
  section 101(21) of such title.
  (3) The term `veteran' shall have the meaning given such term in section
  101(2) of such title.
SEC. 106. REPORT BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of
  this Act and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
  shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House
  of Representatives a report on the plan required by section 105. The report
  shall contain the following information:
  (1) A description of the plan.
  (2) What facilities, personnel, funds, and other resources are necessary
  to increase the availability of treatment and enhance outreach activities
  in accordance with the plan in a manner that does not reduce the existing
  capacity of the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide treatment for
  other conditions.
  (3) A description of the efforts undertaken by the Secretary to make
  such resources available for the treatment of veterans for post-traumatic
  stress disorder.
  (4) An estimate of the availability of community-based residential
  treatment of veterans for post-traumatic stress disorder and the impact
  of such availability on the increased availability of such treatment by
  the Department.
  (5) An assessment of the need for, and potential benefit of, making available
  scholarships, tuition reimbursement, or other educational assistance to
  health-care students and health-care professionals in order to improve
  the training and specialization of such individuals in the provision of
  such treatment.
  (6) A description of the efforts of the Secretary to implement the
  recommendations of the Special Committee on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
  referred to in subsection (b) with respect to--
  (A) establishing educational programming that is directed to each of the
  various levels of education, training, and experience of the various mental
  health professionals involved in the treatment of veterans suffering from
  PTSD; and
  (B) giving research relating to PTSD a high priority in the allocation
  of funds available to the Department in research activities relating to
  mental health.
  (7) Such other proposals and recommendations as the Secretary considers
  appropriate to increase the availability of such treatment.
  (b) REPORT ASSISTANCE- In preparing the report referred to in subsection (a),
  the Secretary shall consult with the Special Committee on Post-Traumatic
  Stress Disorder established pursuant to section 110(b) of the Veterans'
  Health Care Act of 1984 (38 U.S.C. 612A note) and the Secretary's Advisory
  Committee on Readjustment of Vietnam Veterans.
SEC. 107. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
  Section 612A is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `Administrator' and `Veterans'
  Administration' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Secretary' and `Department', respectively;
  (2) in subsection (h)--
  (A) by striking out `Administrator' and `Veterans' Administration' each
  place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary' and `Department',
  respectively; and
  (B) in paragraph (5), by striking out `the Secretary considers' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `such Secretary considers'; and
  (3) in subsection (j) (as redesignated by section 103(b)(1)), by striking
  out `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
  thereof `Department'.
SEC. 108. SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER.
  (a) EVALUATION OF STUDY OF POSTWAR PSYCHOLOGICAL PROBLEMS OF VIETNAM
  VETERANS- (1) Not later than February 15, 1992, the Special Committee on
  Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (hereinafter in this section referred to
  as the `Special Committee') established pursuant to section 110(b)(1) of
  the Veterans' Health Care Act of 1984 (38 U.S.C. 612A note) shall submit
  concurrently to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Committees on
  Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives (hereinafter
  in this section referred to as the `Committees') a report setting forth
  the Special Committee's evaluation of the results of the study required by
  section 102 of the Veterans' Health Care Amendments of 1983 (38 U.S.C. 612A
  note). Such report shall include the Special Committee's--
  (A) overall evaluation of the conduct, validity, and meaning of the study;
  (B) assessment of the capability of the Department of Veterans Affairs
  to meet the need for diagnosing and treating veterans for post-traumatic
  stress disorder and for other psychological problems in readjusting to
  civilian life, as estimated in the results of such study;
  (C) evaluation of the Secretary's report on the study; and
  (D) recommendations for any further or follow-up research on the matters
  addressed in the study.
  (2) Not later than 30 days after receiving the Special Committee's report
  under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees any
  comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
  (b) UPDATES OF REPORTS UNDER SECTION 110(c) OF PUBLIC LAW 98-528- (1)
  Not later than February 1 of each of 1992 and 1993, the Special Committee
  shall concurrently submit to the Secretary and the Committees a report
  containing information updating the reports submitted to the Secretary
  under section 110(e) of the Veterans' Health Care Act of 1984, together
  with any additional information the Special Committee considers appropriate
  regarding the overall efforts of the Department of Veterans Affairs to
  meet the needs of veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and other
  psychological problems in readjusting to civilian life.
  (2) Not later than 60 days after receiving each of the Special Committee's
  reports under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees
  any comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 109. FUNDING FOR POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER PROGRAMS.
  In the documents providing detailed information on the budget for the
  Department of Veterans Affairs that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
  submits to the Congress in conjunction with the President's budget submission
  for fiscal year 1993 and for fiscal year 1994 pursuant to section 1105 of
  title 31, United States Code, the Secretary shall identify the amounts in
  the appropriations requests for Department accounts that are estimated to
  be obligated for--
  (1) the payment of compensation to veterans for disabilities resulting from
  post-traumatic stress disorder (hereinafter in this section referred to as
  `PTSD') that is service connected;
  (2) the treatment of veterans by or at the expense of the Department for
  PTSD related to their active-duty service, including specific designation
  of funds for the treatment of PTSD--
  (A) in PTSD programs designated pursuant to section 110(a)(1) of the
  Veterans' Health Care Act of 1984 (38 U.S.C. 612A note);
  (B) in inpatient psychiatric programs and outpatient mental health programs
  other than such designated PTSD programs;
  (C) in readjustment counseling programs pursuant to 612A of title 38,
  United States Code; and
  (D) under contract through non-Department sources furnishing (i) readjustment
  counseling services pursuant to section 612A(e) of such title, (ii)
  mental health services pursuant to such section 612A(e), or (iii) mental
  health services pursuant to other authority, and described in the first
  annual report submitted pursuant to section 110(e)(1) of the Veterans'
  Health Care Act of 1984 as having been proposed by the Special Committee
  on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder;
  (3) education, training, and research at--
  (A) the National Center on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder established
  under section 110(c) of such Act;
  (B) any centers of mental illness research, education, and clinical
  activities that may be established at Department medical centers; and
  (C) other Department research facilities; and
  (4) the operation of the National Center on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.
SEC. 110. SELECTION OF LOCATIONS FOR NEW POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER
TREATMENT UNITS.
  (a) ACCESSIBILITY OF PTSD TREATMENT UNITS TO VETERANS IN RURAL AREAS- (1)
  Subchapter I of chapter 81 is amended by adding at the end the following
  new section:
` 8117. Locations of PTSD treatment units
  `The Secretary shall to the extent practicable ensure that there are
  Department post-traumatic stress disorder treatment units in locations
  that are readily accessible to veterans residing in rural areas of the
  United States.'.
  (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by
  adding after the item relating to section 8116 the following new item:
`8117. Locations of PTSD treatment units.'.
  (b) IMPLEMENTATION- In determining where to locate post-traumatic stress
  disorder units which may be established after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall give strong consideration
  to locations referred to in section 8117 of title 38, United States Code,
  as added by subsection (a)(1).
Part B--Mental Illness Research and Education
SEC. 121. MENTAL ILLNESS RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND CLINICAL CENTERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Subchapter II of chapter 73 is amended--
  (1) by redesignating sections 7316 and 7317 as sections 7317 and 7318,
  respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after section 7315 the following new section 7316:
` 7316. Mental illness research, education, and clinical centers
  `(a) The purposes of this section are to facilitate the improvement of
  health-care services for eligible veterans suffering from mental illness,
  especially service-related conditions, through research, the education
  and training of health personnel, and the development of improved models
  for the furnishing of clinical services.
  `(b)(1) In order to carry out the purposes of this section, the Secretary,
  upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director and pursuant to
  the provisions of this subsection, shall designate not more than five
  health-care facilities of the Department as the locations for centers of
  mental illness research, education, and clinical activities and (subject
  to the appropriation of sufficient funds for such purpose) shall establish
  and operate such centers at such locations in accordance with this section.
  `(2) The Secretary shall designate at least one facility under paragraph
  (1) not later than January 1, 1992.
  `(3) In designating facilities as the locations for centers under paragraph
  (1), the Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director,
  shall ensure appropriate geographic distribution of such facilities.
  `(4) The Secretary may not designate any health-care facility as a
  location for a center under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary, upon the
  recommendation of the Chief Medical Director, determines that the facility
  has (or may reasonably be anticipated to develop)--
  `(A) with an accredited medical school which provides education and training
  in psychiatry and with which such facility is affiliated, an arrangement
  under which residents receive education and training in psychiatry through
  regular rotation through such facility so as to provide such residents
  with training in the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness;
  `(B) with an accredited graduate school of psychology which provides
  education and training in clinical or counseling psychology or both and
  with which the facility is affiliated, an arrangement under which students
  receive education and training in clinical or counseling psychology or
  both through regular rotation through such facility so as to provide such
  students with training in the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness;
  `(C) an arrangement under which nursing, social work, or other allied
  health personnel receive training and education in mental health care
  through regular rotation through such facility;
  `(D) the ability to attract the participation of scientists who are
  capable of ingenuity and creativity in research into the causes, treatment,
  and prevention of mental illness and into models for furnishing care and
  treatment to veterans suffering from mental illness;
  `(E) a policymaking advisory committee composed of appropriate mental
  health-care and research representatives of the facility and of the
  affiliated school or schools to advise the directors of such facility and
  such center on policy matters pertaining to the activities of such center
  during the period of the operation of such center; and
  `(F) the capability to conduct effectively evaluations of the activities
  of such center.
  `(c) Activities of clinical and scientific investigation at each center shall
  be eligible to compete for the award of funding from amounts appropriated
  for the Department of Veterans Affairs medical and prosthetics research
  account and shall receive priority in the award of funding from such
  account insofar as funds are awarded to projects for mental illness.
  `(d) There are authorized to be appropriated for the basic support of the
  research and education and training activities of the centers established
  pursuant to subsection (b)(1), $3,125,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $6,250,000
  for each of the three subsequent fiscal years. The Chief Medical Director
  shall allocate to such centers from other funds appropriated generally for
  the Department of Veterans Affairs medical care account and medical and
  prosthetics research account such amounts as the Chief Medical Director
  determines appropriate.
  `(e) The Chief Medical Director shall ensure that research activities
  carried out through centers established under subsection (b)(1) include
  an appropriate emphasis on the psychosocial dimension of mental illness
  and on proposals of means of furnishing care and treatment to veterans
  suffering from mental illness.
  `(f) The Chief Medical Director shall ensure that useful information produced
  by the research, education and training, and clinical activities of the
  centers established under subsection (b)(1) is disseminated throughout
  the Veterans Health Administration through the development of programs
  of continuing medical and related education provided through regional
  medical education centers under subchapter VI of chapter 74 of this title
  and other means.
  `(g) The official within the Central Office of the Veterans Health
  Administration responsible for mental health and behavioral sciences
  matters shall be responsible for the supervision of the operation of the
  centers established pursuant to subsection (b)(1).'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  73 is amended by striking out the items relating to sections 7316 and 7317
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`7316. Mental illness research, education, and clinical centers.
`7317. Malpractice and negligence suits: defense by United States.
`7318. Hazardous research projects: indemnification of contractors.'.
  (c) REPORTS- Not later than February 1 of each of 1993, 1994, and 1995,
  the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on
  Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on
  the experience during the prior fiscal year under the centers established
  pursuant to section 7316 of title 38, United States Code (as added by
  subsection (a)). Each such report shall contain the following:
  (1) A description of--
  (A) the activities carried out at each center and the funding provided
  for such activities;
  (B) the advances made at each center in research, education and training,
  and clinical activities relating to mental illness in veterans; and
  (C) the efforts made by the Chief Medical Director of the Department of
  Veterans Affairs pursuant to subsection (e) of such section (as so added)
  to disseminate throughout the Veterans Health Administration useful
  information derived from such activities.
  (2) The Secretary's evaluations of the effectiveness of the centers in
  fulfilling the purposes of the centers.
TITLE II--GENERAL HEALTH CARE
Part A--General Health
SEC. 201. ELIGIBILITY FOR PROSTHETIC DEVICES AND CERTAIN OTHER MEDICAL ITEMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 601(6)(A)(i) is amended by striking out `(except
  under the conditions described in section 612(f)(1)(A)(i) of this title)'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
  the date on which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees
  on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives copies of the
  Secretary's written determination that implementation of that amendment will
  not result in (1) substantial delay, or contribute substantially to delays,
  in the furnishing of prosthetic items in connection with the treatment of
  disabilities that are service connected (within the meaning of that term
  provided in section 101(16) of title 38, United States Code), or (2) the
  denial of such items in connection with the treatment of such disabilities.
SEC. 202. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM LIMITATIONS ON HOME HEALTH SERVICES.
  Section 617(a)(2) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `$2,500' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `$5,000'; and
  (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking out `$600' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `$1,200'.
SEC. 203. EXPANDED SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS.
  (a) ASSESSMENT AND PLAN- (1)(A) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
  require the director of each medical center or the director of each regional
  benefits office to make an assessment of the needs of homeless veterans
  living within the area served by the director of the medical center concerned
  or the region of the director of the region concerned, as the case may be.
  (B) Each assessment shall identify the needs of homeless veterans with
  respect to the following areas:
  (i) Health care.
  (ii) Education and training.
  (iii) Employment.
  (iv) Shelter.
  (v) Counseling.
  (vi) Outreach services.
  (C) Each assessment shall also indicate the extent to which the needs
  referred to in clauses (i) through (vi) of subparagraph (B) are being
  met adequately by the programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
  of other departments and agencies of the Federal Government, of State and
  local governments, and of nongovernmental organizations.
  (D) Each assessment shall be made in consultation with all facilities of
  the Department of Veterans Affairs serving veterans in the appropriate
  service area and with community-based organizations that have experience
  working with homeless persons in that area.
  (E) Each assessment shall be carried out in accordance with uniform
  procedures and guidelines prescribed by the Secretary.
  (2)(A) The director of each medical center shall develop a plan for each
  of fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994 for the provision of outreach services
  and other services to meet the needs that are identified in the assessment
  referred to in paragraph (1)(B) on the part of homeless veterans in the
  area served by the medical center concerned. The director of each medical
  center shall develop such plans in consultation with the director of the
  appropriate regional benefits office, the heads of other facilities of the
  Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Director for Veterans' Employment
  and Training within the State concerned.
  (B) Each plan developed pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall--
  (i) describe the actions to be taken by the Department of Veterans Affairs
  to meet, directly or otherwise, those needs of homeless veterans that are
  identified in the assessment referred to in paragraph (1) as not being
  adequately met by existing programs; and
  (ii) provide that the director of the medical center concerned or other
  official of the Department of Veterans Affairs will take appropriate action
  to meet those needs, to the maximum extent practicable, through existing
  programs and available resources.
  (C) The director of each medical center shall coordinate the development
  of the plan for the area served by the medical center concerned with
  other programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs, other departments
  and agencies of the Federal Government, State and local governments,
  and community-based organizations and other private entities that provide
  services to homeless persons.
  (D) Each plan shall include a list of all public and private programs that
  provide assistance to homeless persons or homeless veterans in the area
  concerned and shall describe the services offered by those programs.
  (3) The director of each medical center shall be responsible for carrying
  out the plan developed with respect to the area served by that medical
  center. In carrying out such plan, the director shall take appropriate
  actions to seek to inform each homeless veteran, and each veteran who is at
  risk of becoming homeless (as determined by the director), of the services
  available to the veteran within the area served by the medical center.
  (4) The director of each medical center shall disseminate to other
  departments and agencies of the Federal Government, all State and local
  governments, and all private entities that provide services to homeless
  persons or homeless veterans within the area served by the medical center
  information regarding the services provided to homeless veterans by the
  medical center or other facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  (b) PILOT PROGRAM FOR PROVIDING DOMICILIARY CARE FOR HOMELESS VETERANS- (1)
  The Secretary shall conduct a pilot program to determine the effectiveness
  of providing, through existing community-based organizations, domiciliary
  care (including medical services) to homeless veterans eligible for such
  care from the Department of Veterans Affairs under other provisions of
  law. In carrying out the program, the Secretary may enter into contracts
  with community-based organizations that have demonstrated effectiveness in
  providing relevant services to homeless persons. The Secretary shall conduct
  the program at not more than 15 locations throughout the United States.
  (2) In entering into contracts under this section, the Secretary shall
  give preference to community-based organizations that offer the most
  comprehensive care and services to homeless individuals, particularly
  services that meet needs identified in the assessments referred to in
  subsection (a)(1) as not being adequately met by existing programs.
  (3) There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection
  $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994.
  (4) If the Secretary determines that the pilot program conducted pursuant
  to paragraph (1) is meeting effectively the domiciliary care needs of
  homeless veterans and that additional funds are needed for that program,
  the Secretary may transfer funds appropriated to carry out section 801
  of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988
  (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3257), as amended by subsection (e), to
  the account available to carry out the pilot program provided for in this
  subsection, except that no amount may be transferred in any fiscal year
  that would reduce the amount available for expenditure under such section
  801 below an amount equal to the amount expended under that section in
  the preceding fiscal year. Funds transferred under this paragraph shall
  be available for the same period for which originally appropriated.
  (c) AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT DONATIONS FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS- The Secretary
  may accept donations of funds and services for the purposes of providing
  one-stop, non-residential services and mobile support teams and for expanding
  the medical services to homeless veterans eligible for such services from
  the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  (d) DEFINITIONS- As used in subsections (a), (b), and (c):
  (1) The term `medical center' means a medical center of the Department of
  Veterans Affairs.
  (2) The term `regional benefits office' means a regional benefits office
  of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  (3) The term `veteran' has the same meaning given such term by section
  101(2) of title 38, United States Code.
  (4) The term `homeless' has the same meaning given such term by section
  103(a), as limited by section 103(c), of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
  Assistance Act (Public Law 100-77; 101 Stat. 485).
  (e) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS- (1) Section 801
  of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988
  (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3257) is amended--
  (A) by striking out subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following:
  `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is hereby authorized to
  be appropriated to the Department of Veterans Affairs $30,000,000 for
  each of the fiscal years 1989 and 1990; $50,000,000 for fiscal year
  1991; $57,500,000 for fiscal year 1992; and $65,000,000 for fiscal year
  1993. Funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall be in addition
  to any funds appropriated pursuant to any other authorizations (whether
  definite or indefinite) for such fiscal years.';
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) by inserting `(1)' after `DOMICILIARY CARE- ';
  (ii) by striking out `50 percent' and inserting in lieu thereof `the
  amounts specified in paragraph (2)';
  (iii) by redesignating clauses (1) and (2) as clauses (A) and (B),
  respectively; and
  (iv) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) The amounts available for the purposes referred to in paragraph (1)
  are as follows:
  `(A) For fiscal year 1989, $15,000,000.
  `(B) For fiscal year 1990, $15,000,000.
  `(C) For fiscal year 1991, $20,000,000.
  `(D) For fiscal year 1992, $22,500,000.
  `(E) For fiscal year 1993, $25,000,000.'; and
  (C) in subsection (c)--
  (i) by inserting `(1)' after `HOMELESS VETERANS- ';
  (ii) by striking out `50 percent' and inserting in lieu thereof `the
  amounts specified in paragraph (2)'; and
  (iii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) The amounts available for the purposes referred to in paragraph (1)
  are as follows:
  `(A) For fiscal year 1989, $15,000,000.
  `(B) For fiscal year 1990, $15,000,000.
  `(C) For fiscal year 1991, $30,000,000.
  `(D) For fiscal year 1992, $35,000,000.
  `(E) For fiscal year 1993, $40,000,000.'.
  (2) EXTENSION OF PROGRAM FOR MENTALLY ILL HOMELESS VETERANS- Section 115(d)
  of the Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 (38 U.S.C. 612 note)
  is amended by striking out `1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `1994'.
  (f) REPORT- Not later than February 1, 1993, the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate
  and House of Representatives a report containing an evaluation of the
  programs referred to in subsections (a), (b), and (c).
SEC. 204. EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM OF MOBILE HEALTH-CARE CLINICS.
  Section 113(b) of the Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 (38
  U.S.C. 612 note) is amended--
  (1) by striking out `and 1990' and inserting in lieu thereof a comma and
  `1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `Funds appropriated
  to carry out the pilot program authorized by this section shall remain
  available until expended.'.
SEC. 205. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROSTHETICS AND SPECIAL-DISABILITIES PROGRAMS.
  (a) ESTABLISHING OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE- Chapter 3 is amended--
  (1) by redesignating sections 223 and 224 as sections 224 and 225,
  respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after section 222 the following new section 223:
`Sec. 223. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs
  `(a)(1) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known
  as the Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs
  (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `Committee').
  `(2) The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Secretary and
  shall include--
  `(A) appropriate representatives of veterans who use prosthetic devices;
  `(B) individuals who are recognized experts in the fields of prosthetics
  engineering;
  `(C) individuals engaged in prosthetics research;
  `(D) individuals engaged in rehabilitative medicine;
  `(E) individuals engaged in the clinical treatment of individuals who are
  users of prosthetic devices;
  `(F) individuals engaged in clinical treatment in the Department's
  special-disabilities programs; and
  `(G) such other individuals with pertinent expertise or experience as the
  Secretary may determine appropriate.
  `(3) The Committee may also include, as ex officio members, individuals
  appointed from the Department.
  `(4) The Secretary shall determine the total number, terms of service, and
  pay and allowances of members of the Committee appointed by the Secretary,
  except that the term of office of any such member may not exceed three years.
  `(b)(1) It shall be the function of the Committee to advise the Secretary
  and the Chief Medical Director on all matters related to--
  `(A) prosthetics and special-disabilities programs administered by the
  Secretary;
  `(B) the coordination of programs of the Department for the development
  and testing of, and for information exchange regarding, prosthetic devices;
  `(C) the coordination of Department and non-Department programs that
  involve the development and testing of prosthetic devices; and
  `(D) the adequacy of funding for the prosthetics and special-disabilities
  programs of the Department.
  `(2) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek
  the advice of the Committee on the matters described in paragraph (1)
  of this subsection.
  `(c) Not later than January 15 of 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995, the Committee
  shall submit to the Secretary and the Committees on Veterans Affairs' of
  the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the effectiveness of the
  prosthetics and special-disabilities programs administered by the Secretary
  during the preceding fiscal year. Not more than 30 days after the date on
  which any such report is received by the Secretary, the Secretary shall
  submit a report to such committees commenting on the report of the Committee.
  `(d) As used in this section, the term `special-disabilities programs'
  includes all programs administered by the Secretary for spinal-cord-injured
  veterans, blind veterans, veterans who have lost or lost the use of
  extremities, hearing-impaired veterans, and other veterans with serious
  incapacities in terms of daily life functions.'.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  3 is amended by striking out the items relating to sections 223 and 224
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`223. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs.
`224. Rulemaking: procedures and judicial review.
`225. Administrative settlement of tort claims.'.
SEC. 206. SERVICES TO OVERCOME SERVICE-CONNECTED DISABILITIES AFFECTING
PROCREATION.
  (a) DEFINITION OF `MEDICAL SERVICES'- Clause (A) of section 601(6), as
  amended by section 201 of this Act, is further amended to read as follows:
  `(A)(i) surgical services, (ii) services to achieve pregnancy in a veteran
  or a veteran's spouse when such services are necessary to overcome a
  service-connected disability impairing a veteran's procreative ability (but
  only if such services are furnished by contract, except for services which
  the Chief Medical Director determines that Department of Veterans Affairs
  facilities are fully capable of furnishing in a cost-effective manner),
  (iii) dental services and appliances as described in sections 610 and
  612 of this title, (iv) optometric and podiatric services, (v) (in the
  case of a person otherwise receiving care or services under this chapter)
  preventive health-care services as defined in section 662 of this title,
  (vi) wheelchairs, artificial limbs, trusses and similar appliances, special
  clothing made necessary by the wearing of prosthetic appliances, and such
  other supplies or services as the Secretary determines to be reasonable
  and necessary, and (vii) travel and incidental expenses pursuant to the
  provisions of section 111 of this title; and'.
  (b) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The Chief Medical Director of the Department of
  Veterans Affairs shall appoint an advisory committee to advise the Chief
  Medical Director on the exercise of authority to furnish services described
  in subclause (ii) of section 601(6)(A) of title 38, United States Code,
  as added by subsection (a). Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee
  Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the advisory committee appointed
  under this subsection.
SEC. 207. PREVENTIVE MEDICINE.
  (a) EXTENSION OF PILOT PROGRAM- Section 663(a)(1) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a)(1) In order to carry out the purpose of this subchapter, the Secretary
  shall, through fiscal year 1996--
  `(A) furnish annually at least two preventive health-care services that
  the Secretary determines to be feasible and appropriate to any veteran
  being furnished care or services under section 610(a)(1) or 612(a) (1) or
  (2) of this title; and
  `(B) implement annually at each Department of Veterans Affairs health-care
  facility a major preventive health-care and health-promotion initiative
  for such veterans.'.
  (b) LIMIT ON EXPENDITURES- Section 663(c) is amended--
  (1) by striking out `or' after `1983,'; and
  (2) by striking out the period at the end and inserting in lieu thereof `,
  more than $16,000,000 in fiscal year 1992, more than $17,000,000 in fiscal
  year 1993, more than $18,000,000 in fiscal year 1994, more than $19,000,000
  in fiscal year 1995, or more than $20,000,000 in fiscal year 1996.'.
  (c) DIRECTOR OF PREVENTIVE HEALTH-CARE AND HEALTH-PROMOTION PROGRAMS-
  Section 663 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(d)(1) The Chief Medical Director shall designate an official in the
  Veterans Health Administration to act as the Director of Preventive
  Health-Care and Health-Promotion Programs.
  `(2) The Director of Preventive Health-Care and Health-Promotion Programs
  shall prepare guidance regarding, and be responsible for coordinating,
  evaluating, and advising the Chief Medical Director on, all activities
  carried out under this subchapter.'.
  (d) REPORTS- Section 664 is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of
  the Senate and House of Representatives--
  `(1) not later than February 1, 1994, an interim report on the experience
  under the program provided for by this subchapter; and
  `(2) not later than February 1, 1996, a final report on the experience
  under the program.
  `(b) Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section
  shall include, with respect to the experience under the program through
  September 30 of the year preceding the deadline for submission of such
  report specified in subsection (a)--
  `(1) a description of the types of services that have been furnished
  pursuant to section 663(a)(1)(A) of this title and the number of veterans
  who received such services;
  `(2) a description of the preventive health-care and health-promotion
  initiatives that were implemented pursuant to section 663(a)(1)(B) of
  this title and the number of veterans who have been served through such
  initiatives;
  `(3) a description of the types of preventive health-care services that
  have been furnished pursuant to sections 610 and 612 of this title and
  the number of veterans who received such services;
  `(4) a description of activities conducted pursuant to section 663(a)(2)
  of this title;
  `(5) an assessment of the results of the program; and
  `(6) any plans for administrative action, and any recommendations for
  legislation, that the Secretary considers appropriate.'.
  (e) CONFORMING AND CLARIFYING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 661(1) is amended
  by striking out `, including veterans with service-connected disabilities'
  and all that follows through `disability under this chapter,'.
  (2) Clauses (1) and (2) of section 662 are amended to read as follows:
  `(1) periodic medical examinations (including screenings for high blood
  pressure, glaucoma, colorectal cancer, and cholesterol) and dental
  examinations;
  `(2) patient health education (including education about nutrition, stress
  management, physical fitness, and smoking cessation);'.
SEC. 208. ASSISTIVE DOGS FOR CERTAIN DISABLED VETERANS.
  (a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTIVE DOGS- Section 614 is amended by adding
  at the end the following new subsection:
  `(c)(1) The Secretary may provide--
  `(A) a service dog to a quadriplegic veteran who has a service-connected
  disability; and
  `(B) a signal dog to a veteran who has a service-connected hearing impairment
  and is in need of the assistance of such a dog.
  `(2) The Secretary may pay travel and incidental expenses to veterans
  referred to in paragraph (1), under the terms and conditions set forth
  in section 111 of this title, for travel to and from such veteran's homes
  that are incurred in becoming adjusted to the service dogs and signal dogs
  referred to in such paragraph.
  `(3) For the purposes of this subsection:
  `(A) The term `service dog' means a dog trained to assist quadriplegic
  individuals in the performance of daily living tasks.
  `(B) The term `signal dog' means a dog trained to provide hearing assistance
  to deaf persons.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS- Section 614(b) is amended by striking out
  `(under the terms and conditions set forth in section 111 of this title)
  to and from their homes and' and inserting in lieu thereof `, under the
  terms and conditions set forth in section 111 of this title, for travel
  to and from such veteran's homes that are'.
SEC. 209. PROSTHETIC SERVICES REPORT.
  Not later than January 15, 1992, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
  submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of
  Representatives a report containing--
  (1) the Secretary's evaluation of the reasons for the backlog that occurred
  in the procurement of prosthetic appliances in fiscal year 1989, and
  for the failure to furnish prosthetic appliances in accordance with the
  priority established in section 612(i) of title 38, United States Code; and
  (2) a description of the actions that the Secretary has taken and plans
  to take to prevent a recurrence of--
  (A) the failure to furnish prosthetic appliances in accordance with such
  priority, including a schedule for any such planned actions; and
  (B) the accumulation of a significant backlog in the procurement of
  prosthetic appliances.
SEC. 210. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY TO FURNISH TOBACCO TO VETERANS RECEIVING
HOSPITAL OR DOMICILIARY CARE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 615 is repealed.
  (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
  17 is amended by striking out the item relating to section 615.
SEC. 211. DEVELOPMENT OF RECOMMENDED LEGISLATION FOR THE ELIMINATION OF
INCONSISTENCIES IN CERTAIN VETERANS BENEFITS LAWS.
  (a) REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH TASK FORCE- The Secretary of Veterans Affairs
  shall establish a task force to recommend policies and legislation for the
  elimination of inconsistencies among provisions of law relating to veterans'
  eligibility for certain health-care benefits.
  (b) COMPOSITION OF TASK FORCE- The task force shall be composed of the
  following:
  (1) Employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs involved in the
  administration of programs affected by the inconsistencies in law referred
  to in subsection (a).
  (2) Representatives of organizations concerned with the administration of
  such programs, as determined by the Secretary.
  (c) RESPONSIBILITIES OF TASK FORCE- The task force shall--
  (1) identify inconsistencies among sections 601(6), 612, 614, 617, and
  619 of title 38, United States Code, and the implementation of such sections;
  (2) after consultation with appropriate representatives of veterans, develop
  policy recommendations and legislative proposals for the elimination of
  any such inconsistencies; and
  (3) not later than the date specified by the Secretary, submit to the
  Secretary a report containing (A) descriptions of the inconsistencies
  identified by the task force, (B) the policies and legislative proposals
  recommended by the task force for the elimination of such inconsistencies,
  and (C) the reasons for each such recommendation.
  (d) ACTION BY THE SECRETARY- The Secretary shall--
  (1) review the report submitted by the task force; and
  (2) either (A) approve the recommendations for legislation contained in the
  report, or (B) with respect to any such recommendations that the Secretary
  does not approve, recommend, or decline to recommend, alternative legislative
  proposals that the Secretary considers appropriate for the elimination of
  the inconsistencies identified by the task force.
  (e) SUBMISSION OF RECOMMENDATIONS TO CONGRESS- Not later than 180 days after
  the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the
  Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives--
  (1) the report submitted to the Secretary by the task force; and
  (2) a report containing--
  (A) any legislation recommended by the Secretary for the elimination of
  the inconsistencies identified by the task force;
  (B) an analysis of any legislation recommended by the Secretary; and
  (C) the reasons for any differences between any legislation recommended
  by the Secretary and the legislation recommended by the task force.
SEC. 212. ELIGIBILITY OF FORMER PRISONERS OF WAR FOR OUTPATIENT MEDICAL
SERVICES.
  Section 612(a)(1) is amended--
  (1) at the end of clause (B), by striking out `and';
  (2) at the end of clause (C), by striking out the period and inserting in
  lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new clause:
  `(D) to any former prisoner of war for any disability.'.
SEC. 213. PILOT PROGRAM FOR FURNISHING ASSISTIVE MONKEYS TO CERTAIN VETERANS.
  (a) REQUIREMENT FOR PILOT PROGRAM- During fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994,
  and 1995, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a pilot program
  under which the Secretary shall--
  (1) furnish assistive monkeys to quadriplegic veterans who have
  service-connected disabilities rated 50 percent or more; and
  (2) facilitate the furnishing of assistive monkeys to other quadriplegic
  veterans.
  (b) SELECTION OF VETERAN-PARTICIPANTS- (1) In determining whether to furnish
  an assistive monkey to a veteran, or to facilitate the furnishing of an
  assistive monkey to a veteran, under the pilot program, the Secretary shall
  (A) consider the extent to which the veteran needs and can benefit from
  the assistance of the monkey, and (B) provide a preference for veterans
  who have service-connected quadriplegia.
  (2) The Secretary shall approve a veteran for participation in the pilot
  program only upon the Secretary's determination that the veteran is
  well-suited for--
  (A) carrying out the responsibilities involved in the care of the monkey; and
  (B) effectively using the monkey for assistance in performing the veteran's
  daily living tasks.
  (c) ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS- (1) The Secretary is authorized to enter into
  contracts for the furnishing of assistive monkeys under subsection (a). Under
  such contracts the Secretary may make advance payments for the furnishing
  of the monkeys before receipt of the monkeys and may either reimburse the
  provider of such monkeys for the costs of training the monkeys or, subject
  to such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines are necessary to
  protect the interests of the Government, make advance payments for such
  costs before the costs are incurred.
  (2) Ownership of an assistive monkey furnished to a veteran under the
  pilot program shall be determined in accordance with a contract between
  the provider of the monkey and the veteran.
  (3) The Secretary shall provide for the protection of the welfare of
  assistive monkeys furnished veterans under the pilot program.
  (d) EVALUATION AND REPORT- (1) The Secretary shall evaluate the conduct
  of the pilot program, the nature and extent of the benefit to veterans
  furnished assistive monkeys under the program (including any benefits
  related to employment), the costs and cost-effectiveness of furnishing such
  monkeys to quadriplegic veterans, and the effects of such program on the
  recruitment and retention of paid primary caregivers for veterans receiving
  monkeys and on the morale of unpaid primary caregivers for such veterans.
  (2) Not later than February 1, 1995, the Secretary shall submit to the
  Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a
  report on the experience under the pilot program. The report shall contain--
  (A) the results of the evaluation carried out under paragraph (1), including
  descriptions of the procedures and criteria used to select veterans to
  receive assistive monkeys, the nature and extent of the benefit that the
  veterans received from the assistance of such monkeys, and the amounts
  and types of costs incurred by the Department of Veterans Affairs in the
  conduct of the program;
  (B) the Secretary's views on the relationship between the furnishing
  of an assistive monkey to a veteran and the payment to a veteran of (i)
  an aid and attendance allowance under section 314(r) of title 38, United
  States Code, or (ii) an annual rate of pension under section 521 of such
  title based on the veteran's need of regular aid and attendance; and
  (C) any recommendations that the Secretary considers appropriate regarding
  whether the pilot program should be continued or whether the authority to
  furnish assistive monkeys to quadriplegic veterans should be made permanent.
  (e) EVALUATION OF PRIVATE ASSISTIVE MONKEY PLACEMENT PROGRAMS- Before
  furnishing assistive monkeys to veterans under the pilot program, the Chief
  Medical Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall provide for the
  conduct of an independent evaluation of the way that assistive monkeys would
  be treated during training and placement under the pilot program. The Chief
  Medical Director shall ensure that the person or organization performing
  the evaluation consults with representatives of appropriate animal welfare
  organizations prior to conducting the evaluation.
  (f) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
  (1) the terms `veterans' and `service-connected' have the meanings given
  those terms in paragraphs (2) and (16), respectively, of section 101 of
  title 38, United States Code; and
  (2) the term `assistive monkey' means a monkey that is specially trained to
  assist in the performance of daily living tasks for quadriplegic individuals.
Part B--Health-Care Personnel
SEC. 221. PAY ENHANCEMENTS FOR CERTAIN HEALTH-CARE PERSONNEL.
  Section 7454(b) is amended by striking out `or occupational therapists,'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `occupational therapists, or any other
  health-care personnel furnishing direct care to patients or providing
  services incident to the furnishing of direct care to patients,'.
SEC. 222. SPECIAL RATES CAP.
  Section 7455(c) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)';
  (2) by inserting `by two times' after `exceed' the first place it appears;
  and
  (3) by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) Whenever the amount of an increase under subsection (a)(1) results in
  a rate of basic pay for a position being equal to or greater than the amount
  that is 94 percent of the maximum amount permitted under paragraph (1), the
  Secretary shall promptly notify the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
  Senate and House of Representatives of the increase and the amount thereof.'.
SEC. 223. RATES OF PAY FOR CERTAIN PSYCHOLOGISTS.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs, not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, shall utilize the authority provided in section 7455 of title
  38, United States Code, to increase the rates of pay for clinical or
  counseling psychologists who hold diplomas as diplomates in psychology
  from an accredited authority recognized by the Secretary unless the
  Chief Medical Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs determines
  that such psychologists are not needed to furnish appropriate quality of
  psychological services for veterans. The amount by which such rate of pay
  shall be increased shall be the amount determined by the Secretary, upon
  the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director, to be necessary to make
  the pay for such psychologists competitive with the pay of psychologists
  with the same qualifications and credentials serving in non-Department
  of Veterans Affairs capacities comparable to the Department capacities in
  which the Department psychologists are serving.
SEC. 224. CHILD-CARE SERVICES.
  (a) ASSESSMENTS OF EMPLOYEE NEEDS FOR CHILD-CARE SERVICES- (1) In order to
  provide for adequate planning for the availability of child-care services
  for children of Department of Veterans Affairs employees, the Secretary of
  Veterans Affairs shall require the director of each Department of Veterans
  Affairs medical center and regional office to--
  (A) assess the needs of such employees for child-care services; and
  (B) submit an annual report to the Secretary containing--
  (i) the director's findings relating to the needs of such employees for
  such services and the extent to which such services are available to meet
  such needs, and
  (ii) a proposal (including a schedule) for meeting fully any unmet needs or,
  if the director determines that it is impracticable to meet such needs fully,
  a detailed explanation of the reasons for such determination and a proposal
  (including a schedule) for meeting as many of such needs as is practicable.
  (2) In making the assessment referred to in paragraph (1), the director
  shall consult with appropriate representatives of the employees at the
  center or office.
  (3) The annual report referred to in this subsection shall be submitted
  not later than March 1 of each year.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Subsection (b) of section 7809 is amended by
  striking out `of this section' in the final sentence.
TITLE III--MINORITY AFFAIRS
SEC. 301. ASSIGNMENT OF MINORITY ISSUES TO AN ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS.
  (a) POSITION AND FUNCTIONS OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY- Section 4 of the
  Department of Veterans Affairs Act (Public Law 100-527; 102 Stat. 2638) is
  amended by adding at the end of subsection (b) the following new paragraph:
  `(11) The review and assessment of the effects of policies, regulations,
  and programs and other activities of the Department on minority veterans
  and the coordination and monitoring of policies facilitating access of
  such veterans to services and benefits provided under laws administered
  by the Secretary.'.
  (b) `MINORITY VETERANS' DEFINED- Section 4 of such Act is further amended
  by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(g) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
  `(1) The term `minority veterans' means veterans who are--
  `(A) black individuals;
  `(B) Native Americans;
  `(C) Hispanic-Americans;
  `(D) Asian-Americans;
  `(E) Pacific-Islander-Americans; and
  `(F) women.
  `(2) The term `veteran' has the meaning given that term in section 101(2)
  of title 38, United States Code.
  `(3) The term `Native American' means an Indian, a Native Hawaiian, or an
  Alaska Native.
  `(4) The term `Indian' has the meaning given that term in section 4(a) of the
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(a)).
  `(5) The term `Native Hawaiian' has the meaning given that term in section
  815(3) of the Native American Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2992c(3)).
  `(6) The term `Alaska Native' has the meaning given the term `Native' in
  section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)).
  `(7) The term `Asian-American' means any citizen or permanent resident of
  the United States, other than a Native American, whose ancestral origin
  is in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the
  Indian subcontinent of Asia.
  `(8) The term `Pacific-Islander-American' means any citizen or permanent
  resident of the United States, other than a Native American, whose ancestral
  origin is in any of the original peoples of the Pacific Islands.'.
SEC. 302. REESTABLISHMENT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON NATIVE-AMERICAN
VETERANS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Effective October 1, 1991, the Advisory Committee on
  Native-American Veterans established by section 19032 of the Veterans'
  Health-Care Amendments of 1986 (title XIX of Public Law 99-272; 100
  Stat. 388) is reestablished.
  (b) INCORPORATION OF PROVISIONS OF PRIOR LAW- Subsections (b) through
  (e) and (g) of section 19032 of the Veterans' Health-Care Amendments of
  1986 shall apply to the Advisory Committee on Native-American Veterans
  reestablished by subsection (a).
  (c) REPORTS- (1) Not later than March 31, 1992, and March 31, 1993,
  the Committee shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a report
  containing the findings and any recommendations of the Committee regarding
  the matters described in section 19032(b) of the Veterans' Health-Care
  Amendments of 1986 that were examined and evaluated by the Committee during
  the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year in which the report is submitted.
  (2) Not later than 60 days after receiving each such report, the Secretary
  shall transmit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and
  House of Representatives a copy of the report, together with any comments
  and recommendations concerning the report that the Secretary considers
  appropriate.
  (d) TERMINATION- The Committee shall expire 90 days after the date on which
  the second report is transmitted by the Committee pursuant to subsection (c).
  Amend the title so as to read: `A bill to improve the provision of health
  care and other services to veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs,
  and for other purposes.'.
S 869 RS----2
S 869 RS----3
S 869 RS----4
S 869 RS----5
S 869 RS----6