[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 886 Public Print (PP)]

                             June 30, 1999

                    Ordered to be printed as passed

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 886

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To authorize appropriations for the Department of State for fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001; to provide for enhanced security at United States 
      diplomatic facilities; to provide for certain arms control, 
nonproliferation, and other national security measures; to provide for 
         reform of the United Nations; and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Admiral James W. 
Nance Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 
2001''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Appropriate congressional committees defined.
   TITLE I--AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Sec. 101. Administration of Foreign Affairs.
Sec. 102. International Commissions.
Sec. 103. Migration and Refugee Assistance.
Sec. 104. United States informational, educational, and cultural 
                            programs.
Sec. 105. Grants to The Asia Foundation.
     TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF STATE BASIC AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES

              Subtitle A--Basic Authorities and Activities

Sec. 201. Office of Children's Issues.
Sec. 202. Strengthening implementation of The Hague Convention on the 
                            Civil Aspects of International Child 
                            Abduction.
Sec. 203. Human rights reporting on the treatment of children.
Sec. 204. Study for establishment of Russian Democracy Foundation.
Sec. 205. Limitation on participation in international expositions.
Sec. 206. Inspector General for the Inter-American Foundation and the 
                            African Development Foundation.
                    Subtitle B--Consular Authorities

Sec. 211. Fees for machine readable visas.
Sec. 212. Fees relating to affidavits of support.
Sec. 213. Passport fees.
Sec. 214. Deaths and estates of United States citizens abroad.
Sec. 215. Major disasters and other incidents abroad affecting United 
                            States citizens.
Sec. 216. Mikey Kale Passport Notification Act of 1999.
    TITLE III--ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Subtitle A--Organization Matters

Sec. 301. Legislative liaison offices of the Department of State.
Sec. 302. State Department official for Northeastern Europe.
Sec. 303. Science and Technology Adviser to Secretary of State.
                   Subtitle B--Foreign Service Reform

Sec. 311. Findings.
Sec. 312. United States citizens hired abroad.
Sec. 313. Limitation on percentage of Senior Foreign Service eligible 
                            for performance pay.
Sec. 314. Placement of Senior Foreign Service personnel.
Sec. 315. Report on management training.
Sec. 316. Workforce planning for Foreign Service personnel by Federal 
                            agencies.
Sec. 317. Records of disciplinary actions.
Sec. 318. Limitation on salary and benefits for members of the Foreign 
                            Service recommended for separation for 
                            cause.
Sec. 319. Foreign language proficiency.
Sec. 320. Treatment of grievance records.
Sec. 321. Deadlines for filing grievances.
Sec. 322. Reports by the Foreign Service Grievance Board.
Sec. 323. Extension of use of foreign service personnel system.
                  Subtitle C--Other Personnel Matters

Sec. 331. Border equalization pay adjustment.
Sec. 332. Treatment of certain persons reemployed after service with 
                            international organizations.
Sec. 333. Home service transfer allowance.
Sec. 334. Parental choice in education.
Sec. 335. Medical emergency assistance.
Sec. 336. Report concerning financial disadvantages for administrative 
                            and technical personnel.
Sec. 337. State Department Inspector General and personnel 
                            investigations.
        TITLE IV--EMBASSY SECURITY AND COUNTERTERRORISM MEASURES

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Findings.
Sec. 403. United States diplomatic facility defined.
Sec. 404. Authorizations of appropriations.
Sec. 405. Obligations and expenditures.
Sec. 406. Security requirements for United States diplomatic 
                            facilities.
Sec. 407. Closure of vulnerable posts.
Sec. 408. Accountability Review Boards.
Sec. 409. Awards of Foreign Service stars.
      TITLE V--UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING ACTIVITIES

Sec. 501. Authorizations of appropriations.
Sec. 502. Reauthorization of Radio Free Asia.
Sec. 503. Nomination requirements for the Chairman of the Broadcasting 
                            Board of Governors.
    TITLE VI--ARMS CONTROL, NONPROLIFERATION, AND NATIONAL SECURITY

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Definitions.
                        Subtitle A--Arms Control

   Chapter 1--Effective Verification of Compliance With Arms Control 
                               Agreements

Sec. 611. Key Verification Assets Fund. 
Sec. 612. Assistant Secretary of State for Verification and Compliance.
Sec. 613. Enhanced annual (``Pell'') report.
Sec. 614. Report on START and START II treaties monitoring issues.
Sec. 615. Standards for verification.
Sec. 616. Contribution to the advancement of seismology.
Sec. 617. Protection of United States companies.
Sec. 618. Preservation of the START Treaty verification regime.
  Chapter 2--Landmine Policy, Demining Activities, and Related Matters

Sec. 621. Conforming amendment.
Sec. 622. Development of Advanced Humanitarian Demining Capabilities 
                            Fund.
   Subtitle B--Nuclear Nonproliferation, Safety, and Related Matters

Sec. 631. Reporting burden on United States nuclear industry.
Sec. 632. Authority to suspend nuclear cooperation for failure to 
                            ratify Convention on Nuclear Safety.
Sec. 633. Elimination of duplicative Government activities.
Sec. 634. Congressional notification of nonproliferation activities.
Sec. 635. Effective use of resources for nonproliferation programs. 
Sec. 636. Disposition of weapons-grade material.
Sec. 637. Status of Hong Kong and Macao in United States export law.
                  Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 641. Requirement for transmittal of summaries.
Sec. 642. Prohibition on withholding certain information from Congress. 

Sec. 643. Reform of the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Program 
                            Office.
Sec. 644. Sense of Congress on factors for consideration in 
                            negotiations with the Russian Federation on 
                            reductions in strategic nuclear forces.
Sec. 645. Clarification of exception to national security controls on 
                            satellite export licensing.
Sec. 646. Study on licensing process under the Arms Export Control Act.
                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

                 Subtitle A--People's Republic of China

Sec. 701. Findings.
Sec. 702. Funding for additional personnel at diplomatic posts to 
                            report on political, economic, and human 
                            rights matters in the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 703. Prisoner Information Registry for the People's Republic of 
                            China.
Sec. 704. Report regarding establishment of Organization for Security 
                            and Cooperation in Asia.
Sec. 705. Sense of Congress regarding organ harvesting and 
                            transplanting in the People's Republic of 
                            China.
                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 721. Denial of entry into United States of foreign nationals 
                            engaged in establishment or enforcement of 
                            forced abortion or sterilization policy.
Sec. 722. Semiannual reports on United States support for membership or 
                            participation of Taiwan in international 
                            organizations.
Sec. 723. Congressional policy regarding United Nations General 
                            Assembly Resolution ES-10/6.
Sec. 724. Waiver of certain prohibitions regarding the Palestine 
                            Liberation Organization.
Sec. 725. United States policy regarding Jerusalem as the capital of 
                            Israel.
Sec. 726. United States policy with respect to Nigeria.
Sec. 727. Partial liquidation of blocked Libyan assets.
Sec. 728. Support for refugees from Russia who choose to resettle in 
                            Israel.
Sec. 729. Sense of Congress regarding extradition of Lt. General Igor 
                            Giorgadze.
Sec. 730. Sense of Congress on the use of children as soldiers or other 
                            combatants in foreign armed forces.
Sec. 731. Technical corrections.
Sec. 732. Reports with respect to a referendum on Western Sahara.
Sec. 733. Self-determination in East Timor.
Sec. 734. Prohibition on the return of veterans memorial objects to 
                            foreign nations without specific 
                            authorization in law.
Sec. 735. Support for the peace process in Sudan.
Sec. 736. Expressing the sense of the Congress regarding the treatment 
                            of religious minorities in the Islamic 
                            Republic of Iran, and particularly the 
                            recent arrests of members of that country's 
                            Jewish community.
Sec. 737. Reporting requirements under PLO Commitments Compliance Act 
                            of 1989.
Sec. 738. Report on terrorist activity in which United States citizens 
                            were killed and related matters.
Sec. 739. Sense of Senate regarding child labor.
Sec. 740. Reporting requirement on worldwide circulation of small arms 
                            and light weapons.
             Subtitle C--United States Entry-Exit Controls

Sec. 751. Amendment of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
                            Responsibility Act of 1996.
Sec. 752. Report on automated entry-exit control system.
Sec. 753. Annual reports on entry-exit control and use of entry-exit 
                            control data.
        TITLE VIII--INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND COMMISSIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorizations of Appropriations

Sec. 801. Contributions to international organizations.
Sec. 802. Contributions for international peacekeeping activities.
Sec. 803. Authorization of appropriations for contributions to the 
                            United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims 
                            of Torture.
                 Subtitle B--United Nations Activities

Sec. 811. United Nations policy on Israel and the Palestinians.
Sec. 812. Data on costs incurred in support of United Nations 
                            peacekeeping operations.
Sec. 813. Reimbursement for goods and services provided by the United 
                            States to the United Nations.
 Subtitle C--International Organizations Other Than the United Nations

Sec. 821. Restriction relating to United States accession to the 
                            International Criminal Court.
Sec. 822. Prohibition on extradition or transfer of United States 
                            citizens to the International Criminal 
                            Court.
Sec. 823. Permanent requirement for reports regarding foreign travel.
Sec. 824. Assistance to States and local governments by the 
                            International Boundary and Water 
                            Commission.
Sec. 825. United States representation at the International Atomic 
                            Energy Agency.
Sec. 826. Annual financial audits of United States section of the 
                            International Boundary and Water 
                            Commission.
Sec. 827. Sense of Congress concerning ICTR.
                 TITLE IX--ARREARS PAYMENTS AND REFORM

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

Sec. 901. Short title.
Sec. 902. Definitions.
              Subtitle B--Arrearages to the United Nations

Chapter 1--Authorization of Appropriations; Obligation and Expenditure 
                                of Funds

Sec. 911. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 912. Obligation and expenditure of funds.
Sec. 913. Forgiveness of amounts owed by the United Nations to the 
                            United States.
                  Chapter 2--United States Sovereignty

Sec. 921. Certification requirements.
   Chapter 3--Reform of Assessments and United Nations Peacekeeping 
                               Operations

Sec. 931. Certification requirements.
                 Chapter 4--Budget and Personnel Reform

Sec. 941. Certification requirements.
                  Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 951. Statutory construction on relation to existing laws.
Sec. 952. Prohibition on payments relating to UNIDO and other 
                            international organizations from which the 
                            United States has withdrawn or rescinded 
                            funding.
            TITLE IX--RUSSIAN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION

Sec. 1001. Purpose.
Sec. 1002. Definitions.
Sec. 1003. Authorization for training program and internships.
Sec. 1004. Applications for technical assistance.
Sec. 1005. United States-Russian business management training board.
Sec. 1006. Restrictions not applicable.
Sec. 1007. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 1008. Effective date.

SEC. 2. APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DEFINED.

    Except as otherwise provided in section 902(1), in this Act the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives.

   TITLE I--AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SEC. 101. ADMINISTRATION OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS.

    (a) Authorizations of Appropriations.--The following amounts are 
authorized to be appropriated for the Department of State under 
``Administration of Foreign Affairs'' to carry out the authorities, 
functions, duties, and responsibilities in the conduct of the foreign 
affairs of the United States and for other purposes authorized by law, 
including public diplomacy activities and the diplomatic security 
program:
            (1) Diplomatic and consular programs.--For ``Diplomatic and 
        Consular Programs'' of the Department of State, $2,837,772,000 
        for the fiscal year 2000 and $2,837,772,000 for the fiscal year 
        2001.
            (2) Capital investment fund.--For ``Capital Investment 
        Fund'' of the Department of State, $90,000,000 for the fiscal 
        year 2000 and $90,000,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (3) Security and maintenance of united states missions.--
        For ``Security and Maintenance of United States Missions'', 
        $434,066,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $434,066,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2001.
            (4) Representation allowances.--For ``Representation 
        Allowances'', $5,850,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and 
        $5,850,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (5) Emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service.--
        For ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'', 
        $17,000,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $17,000,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2001.
            (6) Office of the inspector general.--For ``Office of the 
        Inspector General'', $30,054,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and 
        $30,054,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (7) Payment to the american institute in taiwan.--For 
        ``Payment to the American Institute in Taiwan'', $15,760,000 
        for the fiscal year 2000 and $15,760,000 for the fiscal year 
        2001.
            (8) Protection of foreign missions and officials.--
                    (A) Amounts authorized to be appropriated.--For 
                ``Protection of Foreign Missions and Officials'', 
                $9,490,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $9,490,000 for 
                the fiscal year 2001.
                    (B) Availability of funds.--Each amount 
                appropriated pursuant to this paragraph is authorized 
                to remain available through September 30 of the fiscal 
                year following the fiscal year for which the amount was 
                appropriated.
            (9) Repatriation loans.--For ``Repatriation Loans'', 
        $1,200,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $1,200,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2001, for administrative expenses.
    (b) Allocation of Funds for Commercial Licenses.--Of the funds made 
available to the Department of State under subsection (a)(1), 
$8,000,000 shall be made available only for the activities of the 
Office of Defense Trade Controls of the Department of State.

SEC. 102. INTERNATIONAL COMMISSIONS.

    The following amounts are authorized to be appropriated under 
``International Commissions'' for the Department of State to carry out 
the authorities, functions, duties, and responsibilities in the conduct 
of the foreign affairs of the United States and for other purposes 
authorized by law:
            (1) International boundary and water commission, united 
        states and mexico.--For ``International Boundary and Water 
        Commission, United States and Mexico''--
                    (A) for ``Salaries and Expenses'', $20,413,000 for 
                the fiscal year 2000 and $20,413,000 for the fiscal 
                year 2001; and
                    (B) for ``Construction'', $8,435,000 for the fiscal 
                year 2000 and $8,435,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (2) International boundary commission, united states and 
        canada.--For ``International Boundary Commission, United States 
        and Canada'', $859,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $859,000 
        for the fiscal year 2001.
            (3) International joint commission.--For ``International 
        Joint Commission'', $3,819,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and 
        $3,819,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (4) International fisheries commissions.--For 
        ``International Fisheries Commissions'', $16,702,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2000 and $16,702,000 for the fiscal year 2001.

SEC. 103. MIGRATION AND REFUGEE ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Migration and Refugee Assistance.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for ``Migration and Refugee Assistance'' for authorized 
activities, $660,000,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $660,000,000 for 
the fiscal year 2001.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to this 
section are authorized to remain available until expended.

SEC. 104. UNITED STATES INFORMATIONAL, EDUCATIONAL, AND CULTURAL 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The following amounts are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out educational and cultural exchange programs 
under the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 
1948, the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, 
Reorganization Plan Number 2 of 1977, the North/South Center Act of 
1991, and the National Endowment for Democracy Act, and to carry out 
other authorities in law consistent with such purposes:
            (1) Educational and cultural exchange programs.--
                    (A) Fulbright academic exchange programs.--For the 
                ``Fulbright Academic Exchange Programs'' (other than 
                programs described in subparagraph (B)), $112,000,000 
                for the fiscal year 2000 and $112,000,000 for the 
                fiscal year 2001.
                    (B) Other educational and cultural exchange 
                programs.--For other educational and cultural exchange 
                programs authorized by law, $98,329,000 for the fiscal 
                year 2000 and $98,329,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (2) Center for cultural and technical interchange between 
        east and west.--For the ``Center for Cultural and Technical 
        Interchange between East and West'', $12,500,000 for the fiscal 
        year 2000 and $12,500,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (3) National endowment for democracy.--For the ``National 
        Endowment for Democracy'', $31,000,000 for the fiscal year 2000 
        and $31,000,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (4) Center for cultural and technical interchange between 
        north and south.--For ``Center for Cultural and Technical 
        Interchange between North and South'' $1,750,000 for the fiscal 
        year 2000 and $1,750,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
    (b) Exchanges With Russia.--
            (1) Muskie fellowships.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under subsection (a)(1)(B), $5,000,000 for each of 
        the fiscal years 2000 and 2001 shall be available only to carry 
        out the Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program under section 227 
        of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 
        and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452 note) with the Russian Federation.
            (2) Sense of congress on allocation of resources for 
        exchanges with russia.--It is the sense of the Congress that 
        educational and professional exchanges with the Russian 
        Federation have proven to be an effective mechanism for 
        enhancing democratization in that country and that, therefore, 
        Congress should significantly increase the financial resources 
        allocated for those programs.
    (c) Muskie Fellowship Doctoral Graduate Studies for Nationals of 
the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union.--
            (1) Allocation of funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under subsection (a)(1)(B), not less than 
        $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2000, and not less than $2,000,000 
        for fiscal year 2001, shall be made available to provide 
        scholarships for doctoral graduate study in the social sciences 
        to nationals of the independent states of the former Soviet 
        Union under the Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program authorized 
        by section 227 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
        Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (22 U.S.C. 2452 note).
            (2) Requirements.--
                    (A) Non-federal support.--Not less than 20 percent 
                of the costs of each student's doctoral study supported 
                under paragraph (1) shall be provided from non-Federal 
                sources.
                    (B) Home country residence requirement.--
                            (i) Agreement for service in home 
                        country.--Before an individual may receive 
                        scholarship assistance under paragraph (1), the 
                        individual shall enter into a written agreement 
                        with the Department of State under which the 
                        individual agrees that after completing all 
                        degree requirements, or terminating his or her 
                        studies, whichever occurs first, the individual 
                        will return to the country of the individual's 
                        nationality, or country of last habitual 
                        residence, within the independent states of the 
                        former Soviet Union (as defined in section 3 of 
                        the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5801)), to 
                        reside and remain physically present there for 
                        an aggregate of at least one year for each year 
                        of study supported under paragraph (1).
                            (ii) Denial of entry into the united states 
                        for noncompliance.--Any individual who has 
                        entered into an agreement under clause (i) and 
                        who has not completed the period of home 
                        country residence and presence required by that 
                        agreement shall be ineligible for a visa and 
                        inadmissible to the United States.
    (d) Vietnam Fulbright Academic Exchange Program.--Of the amounts 
authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a)(1)(A), $5,000,000 
for the fiscal year 2000 and $5,000,000 for the fiscal year 2001 shall 
be available only to carry out the Vietnam scholarship program 
established by section 229 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 102-138).

SEC. 105. GRANTS TO THE ASIA FOUNDATION.

    Section 404 of The Asia Foundation Act (title IV of Public Law 98-
164; 22 U.S.C. 4403) is amended to read as follows:
    ``Sec. 404. There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of State $15,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2000 and 
2001 for grants to The Asia Foundation pursuant to this title.''.

     TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF STATE BASIC AUTHORITIES AND ACTIVITIES

              Subtitle A--Basic Authorities and Activities

SEC. 201. OFFICE OF CHILDREN'S ISSUES.

    (a) Director Requirements.--At the earliest date practicable, the 
Secretary of State is requested to fill the position of Director of the 
Office of Children's Issues of the Department of State (in this section 
referred to as the ``Office'') with a career member of the Senior 
Executive Service. Effective January 1, 2001, only a career member of 
the Senior Executive Service may occupy the position of Director of the 
Office. In selecting an individual to fill the position of Director, 
the Secretary of State shall seek an individual who can assure long-
term continuity in the management of the Office.
    (b) Case Officer Staffing.--Effective April 1, 2000, there shall be 
assigned to the Office of Children's Issues of the Department of State 
a sufficient number of case officers to ensure that the average 
caseload for each officer does not exceed 75.
    (c) Embassy Contact.--The Secretary of State shall designate in 
each United States diplomatic mission an employee who shall serve as 
the point of contact for matters relating to international abductions 
of children by parents. The Director of the Office shall regularly 
inform the designated employee of children of United States citizens 
abducted by parents to that country.
    (d) Coordination.--
            (1) Particular abductions.--Not later than 24 hours after 
        notice of the possible abduction of a child by a parent to a 
        location abroad has been submitted to the Department of State, 
        the Secretary of State shall submit to the National Center for 
        Missing and Exploited Children a report including the 
        following:
                    (A) The name of the abducted child.
                    (B) The name and contact information of the parent 
                or guardian who is searching for the child.
                    (C) The name and contact information for the law 
                enforcement officials, including the agencies which 
                employ the officials, assisting in the effort to return 
                the child.
                    (D) The country to which the child is believed to 
                have been abducted.
                    (E) The name of the person believed to have 
                abducted the child.
            (2) General case information.--At least once every six 
        months, the Secretary shall submit to the Center a report on 
        the following:
                    (A) Any case of abduction of a child by a parent 
                previously submitted to the Secretary that has been 
                closed during the preceding six months, including the 
                reason for closing the case.
                    (B) Any case for which the Department of State has 
                received a request during such months for assistance 
                from a parent concerned about preventing the abduction 
                of a child to a location abroad.
    (e) Reports to Parents.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        beginning 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
        at least once every 6 months thereafter, the Secretary of State 
        shall report to each parent who has requested assistance 
        regarding an abducted child. Each such report shall include 
        information on the current status of the abducted child's case 
        and the efforts by the Department of State to resolve the case.
            (2) Exception.--The requirement in paragraph (1) shall not 
        apply in a case of an abducted child if--
                    (A) the case has been closed and the Secretary of 
                State has reported the reason the case was closed to 
                the parent who requested assistance; or
                    (B) the parent seeking assistance requests that 
                such reports not be provided.

SEC. 202. STRENGTHENING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE HAGUE CONVENTION ON THE 
              CIVIL ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL CHILD ABDUCTION.

    (a) Reports on Compliance With the Convention.--Section 2803(a) of 
the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 (as contained 
in division G of Public Law 105-277) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``during the period 
        ending September 30, 1999'';
            (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, including the specific actions taken by 
        the United States chief of mission in the country to which the 
        child is alleged to have been abducted''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) a description of the efforts of the Secretary of 
        State to encourage the parties to the Convention to facilitate 
        the work of nongovernmental organizations within their 
        countries that assist parents seeking the return of children 
        under the Convention.''.
    (b) Coordination in the United States.--It is the sense of Congress 
that the Secretary of State should continue to work with the National 
Center for Missing and Exploited Children in the United States to 
assist parents seeking the return of, or access to, children brought to 
the United States in violation of the Convention on the Civil Aspects 
of International Child Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 
1980.

SEC. 203. HUMAN RIGHTS REPORTING ON THE TREATMENT OF CHILDREN.

    (a) In General.--It is the sense of Congress that the annual human 
rights report by the Department of State should include a section on 
each country regarding the treatment of children in that country.
    (b) Contents of Report Sections.--Each report section described in 
subsection (a) should include--
            (1) a description of compliance by the country with the 
        Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child 
        Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 1980;
            (2) a description of the cooperation, or lack thereof, in 
        resolving cases of abducted children by each country that is 
        not a party to the Convention on the Civil Aspects of 
        International Child Abduction, done at The Hague on October 25, 
        1980;
            (3) the number of children who were abducted and remain in 
        the country, with special emphasis on cases of more than one 
        year in duration; and
            (4) an identification of those cases that have resulted in 
        the successful return of children.

SEC. 204. STUDY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF RUSSIAN DEMOCRACY FOUNDATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall conduct a study of 
the feasibility of establishing a Russia-based foundation for the 
promotion of democratic institutions in the Russian Federation.
    (b) Allocation of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated for the Department of State for fiscal year 2000, up to 
$50,000 shall be available to carry out this section.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees setting forth the results of the 
study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 205. LIMITATION ON PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL EXPOSITIONS.

    Section 230 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 2452 note) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b) and 
        notwithstanding''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Exceptions.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the United 
States Information Agency may use funds to carry out any of its 
responsibilities--
            ``(1) under section 102(a)(3) of the Mutual Educational and 
        Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2452(a)(3)) to provide 
        for United States participation in international fairs and 
        expositions abroad;
            ``(2) under section 105(f) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 2455(f)) 
        with respect to encouraging foreign governments, international 
        organizations, and private individuals, firms, associations, 
        agencies, and other groups to participate in international 
        fairs and expositions and to make contributions to be utilized 
        for United States participation in international fairs and 
        expositions; or
            ``(3) to facilitate support to the United States 
        Commissioner General for participation in international fairs 
        and expositions.
    ``(c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in subsection (b) authorizes 
the use of funds available to the United States Information Agency to 
make any payment for--
            ``(1) any contract, grant, or other agreement with any 
        other party to carry out any activity described in subsection 
        (b); or
            ``(2) the satisfaction of any legal judgment or the cost of 
        any litigation brought against the United States Information 
        Agency arising from any activity described in subsection 
        (b).''.

SEC. 206. INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION AND THE 
              AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Inspector General 
of the Agency for International Development shall serve as the 
Inspector General of the Inter-American Foundation and the African 
Development Foundation and shall have all the authorities and 
responsibilities with respect to the Inter-American Foundation and the 
African Development Foundation as the Inspector General has with 
respect to the Agency for International Development.

                    Subtitle B--Consular Authorities

 SEC. 211. FEES FOR MACHINE READABLE VISAS.

    Section 140(a) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 103-236; 8 U.S.C. 1351 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking the first sentence of paragraph (3), and 
        inserting ``For each of the fiscal years 2000 and 2001, any 
        amount collected under paragraph (1) that exceeds $300,000,000 
        may be made available for the purposes of paragraph (2) only if 
        a notification is submitted to Congress in accordance with the 
        procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under 
        section 34 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 
        1956 (22 U.S.C. 2706).''; and
            (2) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5).

SEC. 212. FEES RELATING TO AFFIDAVITS OF SUPPORT.

    (a) Authority To Charge Fee.--The Secretary of State may charge and 
retain a fee or surcharge for services provided by the Department of 
State to any sponsor who provides an affidavit of support under section 
213A of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183a) to ensure 
that such affidavit is properly completed before it is forwarded to a 
consular post for adjudication by a consular officer in connection with 
the adjudication of an immigrant visa. Such fee or surcharge shall be 
in addition to and separate from any fee imposed for immigrant visa 
application processing and issuance, and shall recover only the costs 
of such services not recovered by such fee.
    (b) Limitation.--Any fee established under subsection (a) shall be 
charged only once to a sponsor who files essentially duplicative 
affidavits of support in connection with separate immigrant visa 
applications from the spouse and children of any petitioner required by 
the Immigration and Nationality Act to petition separately for such 
persons.
    (c) Treatment of Fees.--Fees collected under the authority of 
subsection (a) shall be deposited as an offsetting collection to any 
Department of State appropriation to recover the cost of providing 
consular services.
    (d) Compliance With Budget Act.--Fees may be collected under the 
authority of subsection (a) only to such extent or in such amounts as 
are provided in advance in an appropriation Act.

 SEC. 213. PASSPORT FEES.

    (a) Applications.--Section 1 of the Passport Act of June 4, 1920 
(22 U.S.C. 214), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``each passport issued'' and 
                inserting ``the filing of each application for a 
                passport (including the cost of passport issuance and 
                use)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``each application for a 
                passport;'' and inserting ``each such application''; 
                and
            (2) by adding after the first sentence the following new 
        sentence: ``Such fees shall not be refundable, except as the 
        Secretary may by regulation prescribe.''.
    (b) Repeal of Outdated Provision on Passport Fees.--Section 4 of 
the Passport Act of June 4, 1920 (22 U.S.C. 216) is repealed.

SEC. 214. DEATHS AND ESTATES OF UNITED STATES CITIZENS ABROAD.

    (a) Repeal.--Section 1709 of the Revised Statutes (22 U.S.C. 4195) 
is repealed.
    (b) Amendment to State Department Basic Authorities Act.--The State 
Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 is amended by inserting after 
section 43 (22 U.S.C. 2715) the following new sections:

``SEC. 43A. NOTIFICATION OF NEXT OF KIN; REPORTS OF DEATH.

    ``(a) In General.--Whenever a United States citizen or national 
dies abroad, a consular officer shall endeavor to notify, or assist the 
Secretary of State in notifying, the next of kin or legal guardian as 
soon as possible, except that, in the case of death of any Peace Corps 
volunteer (within the meaning of section 5(a) of the Peace Corps Act 
(22 U.S.C. 2504(a)), any member of the Armed Forces, any dependent of 
such a volunteer or member, or any Department of Defense employee, the 
consular officer shall assist the Peace Corps or the appropriate 
military authorities, as the case may be, in making such notifications.
    ``(b) Reports of Death or Presumptive Death.--The consular officer 
may, for any United States citizen who dies abroad--
            ``(1) in the case of a finding of death by the appropriate 
        local authorities, issue a report of death or of presumptive 
        death; or
            ``(2) in the absence of a finding of death by the 
        appropriate local authorities, issue a report of presumptive 
        death.
    ``(c) Implementing Regulations.--The Secretary of State shall 
prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.

``SEC. 43B. CONSERVATION AND DISPOSITION OF ESTATES.

    ``(a) Conservation of Estates Abroad.--
            ``(1) Authority to act as conservator.--Whenever a United 
        States citizen or national dies abroad, a consular officer 
        shall act as the provisional conservator of the portion of the 
        decedent's estate located abroad and, subject to paragraphs 
        (3), (4), and (5), shall--
                    ``(A) take possession of the personal effects of 
                the decedent within his jurisdiction;
                    ``(B) inventory and appraise the personal effects 
                of the decedent, sign the inventory, and annex thereto 
                a certificate as to the accuracy of the inventory and 
                appraised value of each article;
                    ``(C) when appropriate in the exercise of prudent 
                administration, collect the debts due to the decedent 
                in the officer's jurisdiction and pay from the estate 
                the obligations owed by the decedent;
                    ``(D) sell or dispose of, as appropriate, in the 
                exercise of prudent administration, all perishable 
                items of property;
                    ``(E) sell, after reasonable public notice and 
                notice to such next of kin as can be ascertained with 
                reasonable diligence, such additional items of property 
                as necessary to provide funds sufficient to pay the 
                decedent's debts and property taxes in the country of 
                death, funeral expenses, and other expenses incident to 
                the disposition of the estate;
                    ``(F) upon the expiration of the one-year period 
                beginning on the date of death (or after such 
                additional period as may be required for final 
                settlement of the estate), if no claimant shall have 
                appeared, after reasonable public notice and notice to 
                such next of kin as can be ascertained with reasonable 
                diligence, sell or dispose of the residue of the 
                personal estate, except as provided in subparagraph 
                (G), in the same manner as United States Government-
                owned foreign excess property;
                    ``(G) transmit to the custody of the Secretary of 
                State in Washington, D.C. the proceeds of any sales, 
                together with all financial instruments (including 
                bonds, shares of stock, and notes of indebtedness), 
                jewelry, heirlooms, and other articles of obvious 
                sentimental value, to be held in trust for the legal 
                claimant; and
                    ``(H) in the event that the decedent's estate 
                includes an interest in real property located within 
                the jurisdiction of the officer and such interest does 
                not devolve by the applicable laws of intestate 
                succession or otherwise, provide for title to the 
                property to be conveyed to the Government of the United 
                States unless the Secretary declines to accept such 
                conveyance.
            ``(2) Authority to act as administrator.--Subject to 
        paragraphs (3) and (4), a consular officer may act as 
        administrator of an estate in exceptional circumstances if 
        expressly authorized to do so by the Secretary of State.
            ``(3) Exceptions.--The responsibilities described in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) may not be performed to the extent that 
        the decedent has left or there is otherwise appointed, in the 
        country where the death occurred or where the decedent was 
        domiciled, a legal representative, partner in trade, or trustee 
        appointed to take care of his personal estate. If the 
        decedent's legal representative shall appear at any time prior 
        to transmission of the estate to the Secretary and demand the 
        proceeds and effects being held by the consular officer, the 
        officer shall deliver them to the representative after having 
        collected any prescribed fee for the services performed under 
        this section.
            ``(4) Additional requirement.--In addition to being subject 
        to the limitations in paragraph (3), the responsibilities 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2) may not be performed 
        unless--
                    ``(A) authorized by treaty provisions or permitted 
                by the laws or authorities of the country wherein the 
                death occurs, or the decedent is domiciled; or
                    ``(B) permitted by established usage in that 
                country.
            ``(5) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this section 
        supersedes or otherwise affects the authority of any military 
        commander under title 10 of the United States Code with respect 
        to the person or property of any decedent who died while under 
        a military command or jurisdiction or the authority of the 
        Peace Corps with respect to a Peace Corps volunteer or the 
        volunteer's property.
    ``(b) Disposition of Estates by the Secretary of State.--
            ``(1) Personal estates.--
                    ``(A) In general.--After receipt of a personal 
                estate pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary may 
                seek payment of all outstanding debts to the estate as 
                they become due, may receive any balances due on such 
                estate, may endorse all checks, bills of exchange, 
                promissory notes, and other instruments of indebtedness 
                payable to the estate for the benefit thereof, and may 
                take such other action as is reasonably necessary for 
                the conservation of the estate.
                    ``(B) Disposition as surplus united states 
                property.--If, upon the expiration of a period of 5 
                fiscal years beginning on October 1 after a consular 
                officer takes possession of a personal estate under 
                subsection (a), no legal claimant for such estate has 
                appeared, title to the estate shall be conveyed to the 
                United States, the property in the estate shall be 
                under the custody of the Department of State, and the 
                Secretary shall dispose of the estate in the same 
                manner as surplus United States Government-owned 
                property is disposed or by such means as may be 
                appropriate in light of the nature and value of the 
                property involved. The expenses of sales shall be paid 
                from the estate, and any lawful claim received 
                thereafter shall be payable to the extent of the value 
                of the net proceeds of the estate as a refund from the 
                appropriate Treasury appropriations account.
                    ``(C) Transfer of proceeds.--The net cash estate 
                after disposition as provided in subparagraph (B) shall 
                be transferred to the miscellaneous receipts account of 
                the Treasury of the United States.
            ``(2) Real property.--
                    ``(A) Designation as excess property.--In the event 
                that title to real property is conveyed to the 
                Government of the United States pursuant to subsection 
                (a)(1)(H) and is not required by the Department of 
                State, such property shall be considered foreign excess 
                property under title IV of the Federal Property and 
                Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 511 et 
                seq.).
                    ``(B) Treatment as gift.--In the event that the 
                Department requires such property, the Secretary of 
                State shall treat such property as if it were an 
                unconditional gift accepted on behalf of the Department 
                of State under section 25 of this Act and section 
                9(a)(3) of the Foreign Service Buildings Act of 1926.
    ``(c) Losses in Connection With the Conservation of Estates.--
            ``(1) Authority to compensate.--The Secretary is authorized 
        to compensate the estate of any United States citizen who has 
        died overseas for property--
                    ``(A) the conservation of which has been undertaken 
                under section 43 or subsection (a) of this section; and
                    ``(B) that has been lost, stolen, or destroyed 
                while in the custody of officers or employees of the 
                Department of State.
            ``(2) Liability.--
                    ``(A) Exclusion of personal liability after 
                provision of compensation.--Any such compensation shall 
                be in lieu of personal liability of officers or 
                employees of the Department of State.
                    ``(B) Liability to the department.--An officer or 
                employee of the Department of State may be liable to 
                the Department of State to the extent of any 
                compensation provided under paragraph (1).
                    ``(C) Determinations of liability.--The liability 
                of any officer or employee of the Department of State 
                to the Department for any payment made under subsection 
                (a) shall be determined pursuant to the Department's 
                procedures for determining accountability for United 
                States Government property.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary of State may prescribe such 
regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The repeal and amendment made by this section 
shall take effect six months after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 215. MAJOR DISASTERS AND OTHER INCIDENTS ABROAD AFFECTING UNITED 
              STATES CITIZENS.

    Section 43 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2715) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) Authority.--'' before ``In'';
            (2) by striking ``disposition of personal effects'' in the 
        last sentence and inserting ``disposition of personal estates 
        pursuant to section 43B''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section and sections 43A 
and 43B, the term `consular officer' includes any United States citizen 
employee of the Department of State who is designated by the Secretary 
of State to perform consular services pursuant to such regulations as 
the Secretary may prescribe.''.

SEC. 216. MIKEY KALE PASSPORT NOTIFICATION ACT OF 1999.

    (a) Not later than 180 days after the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of State shall issue regulations that--
            (1) provide that, in the issuance of a passport to minors 
        under the age of 18 years, both parents, a guardian, or a 
        person in loco parentis have--
                    (A) executed the application; and
                    (B) provided documentary evidence demonstrating 
                that they are the parents, guardian, or person in loco 
                parentis; and
            (2) provide that, in the issuance of a passport to minors 
        under the age of 18 years, in those cases where both parents 
        have not executed the passport application, the person 
        executing the application has provided documentary evidence 
        that such person--
                    (A) has sole custody of the child; or
                    (B) the other parent has provided consent to the 
                issuance of the passport.
        The requirement of this paragraph shall not apply to guardians 
        or persons in loco parentis.
    (b) The regulations required to be issued by this section may 
provide for exceptions in exigent circumstances involving the health or 
welfare of the child.

    TITLE III--ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

                    Subtitle A--Organization Matters

SEC. 301. LEGISLATIVE LIAISON OFFICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.

    (a) Development of Plan.--The Secretary of State shall develop a 
plan for the establishment of legislative liaison offices for the 
Department of State within the office buildings of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate. In developing the plan, the Secretary 
should examine existing liaison offices of other executive departments 
that are located in the congressional office buildings, including the 
liaison offices of the military services.
    (b) Plan Elements.--The plan developed under subsection (a) shall 
consider--
            (1) space requirements;
            (2) cost implications;
            (3) personnel structure; and
            (4) the feasibility of modifying the Pearson Fellowship 
        program in order to require members of the Foreign Service who 
        serve in such fellowships to serve a second year in a 
        legislative liaison office.
    (c) Transmittal of Plan.--Not later than October 1, 1999, the 
Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on International 
Relations and the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate the plan developed 
under subsection (a).

SEC. 302. STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL FOR NORTHEASTERN EUROPE.

    The Secretary of State shall designate an existing senior-level 
official of the Department of State with responsibility for promoting 
regional cooperation in and coordinating United States policy toward 
Northeastern Europe.

SEC. 303. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ADVISER TO SECRETARY OF STATE.

    (a) Establishment of Position.--Section 1 of the State Department 
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2651a) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Science and Technology Adviser.--
            ``(1) In general.--There shall be within the Department of 
        State a Science and Technology Adviser (in this paragraph 
        referred to as the `Adviser'). The Adviser shall report to the 
        Secretary of State through the Under Secretary of State for 
        Global Affairs.
            ``(2) Duties.--The Adviser shall--
                    ``(A) advise the Secretary of State, through the 
                Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, on 
                international science and technology matters affecting 
                the foreign policy of the United States; and
                    ``(B) perform such duties, exercise such powers, 
                and have such rank and status as the Secretary of State 
                shall prescribe.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than six months after receipt by the 
Secretary of State of the report by the National Research Council of 
the National Academy of Sciences with respect to the contributions that 
science, technology, and health matters can make to the foreign policy 
of the United States, the Secretary of State, acting through the Under 
Secretary of State for Global Affairs, shall submit a report to 
Congress setting forth the Secretary of State's plans for 
implementation, as appropriate, of the recommendations of the report.

                   Subtitle B--Foreign Service Reform

SEC. 311. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) To carry out its international relations and diplomacy, 
        the United States has relied on a professional career Foreign 
        Service that was established by law in 1924.
            (2) The Foreign Service Act of 1980 accurately states that 
        the United States career foreign service is essential to the 
        national interest in that it assists the President and the 
        Secretary of State in conducting the foreign affairs of the 
        United States.
            (3) The career Foreign Service is premised on a membership 
        that is characterized by excellence, intelligence, 
        professionalism, and integrity.
            (4) Ethical, professional, and financial misconduct by 
        career members of the Foreign Service, while uncommon, must be 
        met with fair but swift disciplinary action. A failure to 
        adequately discipline, and in some cases remove from the 
        Foreign Service, those career members who violate laws or 
        regulations would erode the qualities of excellence required of 
        United States Foreign Service members.
            (5) Retention of members of the Foreign Service who do not 
        meet high standards of conduct would in the long term harm 
        important national interests of the United States.

SEC. 312. UNITED STATES CITIZENS HIRED ABROAD.

    Section 408(a)(1) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
3968(a)(1)) is amended in the last sentence--
            (1) by striking ``(A)'' and all that follows through 
        ``(B)''; and
            (2) by striking ``this total compensation package'' and 
        insert ``the compensation plan''.

SEC. 313. LIMITATION ON PERCENTAGE OF SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE ELIGIBLE 
              FOR PERFORMANCE PAY.

    Section 405(b)(1) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
3965(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``50'' and inserting ``33''.

SEC. 314. PLACEMENT OF SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE PERSONNEL.

    The Director General of the Foreign Service shall submit a report 
on the first day of each fiscal quarter to the appropriate 
congressional committees containing the following:
            (1) The number of members of the Senior Foreign Service.
            (2) The number of vacant positions designated for members 
        of the Senior Foreign Service.
            (3) The number of members of the Senior Foreign Service who 
        are not assigned to positions.

SEC. 315. REPORT ON MANAGEMENT TRAINING.

    Not later than February 1, 2000, the Department of State shall 
report to the appropriate congressional committees on the feasibility 
of modifying current training programs and curricula so that the 
Department can provide significant and comprehensive management 
training at all career grades for Foreign Service personnel.

SEC. 316. WORKFORCE PLANNING FOR FOREIGN SERVICE PERSONNEL BY FEDERAL 
              AGENCIES.

    Section 601(c) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4001(c)) is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(4) Not later than March 1, 2001, and every four years 
thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate which shall include the following:
            ``(A) A description of the steps taken and planned in 
        furtherance of--
                    ``(i) maximum compatibility among agencies 
                utilizing the Foreign Service personnel system, as 
                provided for in section 203, and
                    ``(ii) the development of uniform policies and 
                procedures and consolidated personnel functions, as 
                provided for in section 204.
            ``(B) A workforce plan for the subsequent five years, 
        including projected personnel needs, by grade and by skill. 
        Each such plan shall include for each category the needs for 
        foreign language proficiency, geographic and functional 
        expertise, and specialist technical skills. Each workforce plan 
        shall specifically account for the training needs of Foreign 
        Service personnel and shall delineate an intake program of 
        generalist and specialist Foreign Service personnel to meet 
        projected future requirements.
    ``(5) If there are substantial modifications to any workforce plan 
under paragraph (4)(B) during any year in which a report under 
paragraph (4) is not required, a supplemental annual notification shall 
be submitted in the same manner as reports are required to be submitted 
under paragraph (4).''.

SEC. 317. RECORDS OF DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 604 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 4004) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Confidentiality of Records.--'' and 
        inserting ``Records.--(a)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), any record of disciplinary 
action that includes a suspension of more than five days taken against 
a member of the Service, including any correction of that record under 
section 1107(b)(1), shall remain a part of the personnel records until 
the member is tenured as a career member of the Service or next 
promoted.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section apply to 
all disciplinary actions initiated on or after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 318. LIMITATION ON SALARY AND BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN 
              SERVICE RECOMMENDED FOR SEPARATION FOR CAUSE.

    Section 610(a) of the Foreign Service Act (22 U.S.C. 4010(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(6) Notwithstanding the hearing required by paragraph (2), at the 
time the Secretary recommends that a member of the Service be separated 
for cause, that member shall be placed on leave without pay pending 
final resolution of the underlying matter, subject to reinstatement 
with back pay if cause for separation is not established in a hearing 
before the Board.''.

SEC. 319. FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY.

    (a) Report on Language Proficiency.--Section 702 of the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4022) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Not later than March 31 of each year, the Director General of 
the Foreign Service shall submit a report to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of 
the House of Representatives summarizing the number of positions in 
each overseas mission requiring foreign language competence that--
            ``(1) became vacant during the previous calendar year; and
            ``(2) were filled by individuals having the required 
        foreign language competence.''.
    (b) Repeal.--Section 304(c) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 
U.S.C. 3944(c)) is repealed.

SEC. 320. TREATMENT OF GRIEVANCE RECORDS.

    Section 1103(d)(1) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
4133(d)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``Nothing in this subsection prevents a grievant from placing in the 
grievant's personnel records a rebuttal to accompany a record of 
disciplinary action, nor prevents the Department from placing in the 
file a statement that the disciplinary action has been reviewed and 
upheld by the Foreign Service Grievance Board.''.

SEC. 321. DEADLINES FOR FILING GRIEVANCES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1104(a) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4134(a)) is amended in the first sentence by striking 
``within a period of 3 years'' and all that follows through the period 
and inserting ``not later than two years after the occurrence giving 
rise to the grievance or, in the case of a grievance with respect to 
the grievant's rater or reviewer, one year after the date on which the 
grievant ceased to be subject to rating or review by that person, but 
in no case less than two years after the occurrence giving rise to the 
grievance.''.
    (b) Grievances Alleging Discrimination.--Section 1104 of that Act 
(22 U.S.C. 4134) is amended by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act and shall apply 
to grievances which arise on or after such effective date.

SEC. 322. REPORTS BY THE FOREIGN SERVICE GRIEVANCE BOARD.

    Section 1105 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4135) is 
amended by adding the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) Not later than March 1 of each year, the Chairman of the 
Foreign Service Grievance Board shall prepare a report summarizing the 
activities of the Board during the previous calendar year. The report 
shall include--
            ``(A) the number of cases filed;
            ``(B) the types of cases filed;
            ``(C) the number of cases on which a final decision was 
        reached, as well as data on the outcome of cases, whether 
        affirmed, reversed, settled, withdrawn, or dismissed;
            ``(D) the number of oral hearings conducted and the length 
        of each such hearing;
            ``(E) the number of instances in which interim relief was 
        granted by the Board; and
            ``(F) data on the average time for consideration of a 
        grievance, from the time of filing to a decision of the Board.
    ``(2) The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to 
the Director General of the Foreign Service and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives.''.

SEC. 323. EXTENSION OF USE OF FOREIGN SERVICE PERSONNEL SYSTEM.

    Section 202(a) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 
3922(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4)(A) Whenever (and to the extent) the Secretary of 
        State considers it in the best interests of the United States 
        Government, the Secretary of State may authorize the head of 
        any agency or other Government establishment (including any 
        establishment in the legislative or judicial branch) to appoint 
        under section 303 individuals described in subparagraph (B) as 
        members of the Service and to utilize the Foreign Service 
        personnel system with respect to such individuals under such 
        regulations as the Secretary of State may prescribe.
            ``(B) The individuals referred to in subparagraph (A) are 
        individuals hired for employment abroad under section 
        311(a).''.

                  Subtitle C--Other Personnel Matters

SEC. 331. BORDER EQUALIZATION PAY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 4 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 (22 U.S.C. 3961 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 414. BORDER EQUALIZATION PAY ADJUSTMENT.

    ``(a) In General.--An employee who regularly commutes from the 
employee's place of residence in the continental United States to an 
official duty station in Canada or Mexico shall receive a border 
equalization pay adjustment equal to the amount of comparability 
payments under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, that the 
employee would receive if the employee were assigned to an official 
duty station within the United States locality pay area closest to the 
employee's official duty station.
    ``(b) Employee Defined.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`employee' means a person who--
            ``(1) is an `employee' as defined under section 2105 of 
        title 5, United States Code; and
            ``(2) is employed by the Department of State, the United 
        States Agency for International Development, or the 
        International Joint Commission of the United States and Canada 
        (established under Article VII of the treaty signed January 11, 
        1909) (36 Stat. 2448), except that the term shall not include 
        members of the Service (as specified in section 103).
    ``(c) Treatment as Basic Pay.--An equalization pay adjustment paid 
under this section shall be considered to be part of basic pay for the 
same purposes for which comparability payments are considered to be 
part of basic pay under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The heads of the agencies referred to in 
subsection (b)(2) may prescribe regulations to carry out this 
section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for the Foreign 
Service Act of 1980 is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 413 the following new item:

``Sec. 414. Border equalization pay adjustment.''.

SEC. 332. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN PERSONS REEMPLOYED AFTER SERVICE WITH 
              INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Title 5 of the United States Code is amended by 
inserting after section 8432b the following new section:
``Sec. 8432c. Contributions of certain persons reemployed after service 
              with international organizations
    ``(a) In this section, the term `covered person' means any person 
who--
            ``(1) transfers from a position of employment covered by 
        chapter 83 or 84 or subchapter I or II of chapter 8 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980 to a position of employment with an 
        international organization pursuant to section 3582;
            ``(2) pursuant to section 3582 elects to retain coverage, 
        rights, and benefits under any system established by law for 
        the retirement of persons during the period of employment with 
        the international organization and currently deposits the 
        necessary deductions in payment for such coverage, rights, and 
        benefits in the system's fund; and
            ``(3) is reemployed pursuant to section 3582(b) to a 
        position covered by chapter 83 or 84 or subchapter I or II of 
        chapter 8 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 after separation 
        from the international organization.
    ``(b)(1) Each covered person may contribute to the Thrift Savings 
Fund, in accordance with this subsection, an amount not to exceed the 
amount described in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) The maximum amount which a covered person may contribute 
under paragraph (1) is equal to--
            ``(A) the total amount of all contributions under section 
        8351(b)(2) or 8432(a), as applicable, which the person would 
        have made over the period beginning on the date of transfer of 
        the person (as described in subsection (a)(1)) and ending on 
        the day before the date of reemployment of the person (as 
        described in subsection (a)(3)), minus
            ``(B) the total amount of all contributions, if any, under 
        section 8351(b)(2) or 8432(a), as applicable, actually made by 
        the person over the period described in subparagraph (A).
    ``(3) Contributions under paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) shall be made at the same time and in the same manner 
        as would any contributions under section 8351(b)(2) or 8432(a), 
        as applicable;
            ``(B) shall be made over the period of time specified by 
        the person under paragraph (4)(B); and
            ``(C) shall be in addition to any contributions actually 
        being made by the person during that period under section 
        8351(b)(2) or 8432(a), as applicable.
    ``(4) The Executive Director shall prescribe the time, form, and 
manner in which a covered person may specify--
            ``(A) the total amount the person wishes to contribute with 
        respect to any period described in paragraph (2)(A); and
            ``(B) the period of time over which the covered person 
        wishes to make contributions under this subsection.
    ``(c) If a covered person who makes contributions under section 
8432(a) makes contributions under subsection (b), the agency employing 
the person shall make those contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund on 
the person's behalf in the same manner as contributions are made for an 
employee described in section 8432b(a) under sections 8432b(c), 
8432b(d), and 8432b(f). Amounts paid under this subsection shall be 
paid in the same manner as amounts are paid under section 8432b(g).
    ``(d) For purposes of any computation under this section, a covered 
person shall, with respect to the period described in subsection 
(b)(2)(A), be considered to have been paid at the rate which would have 
been payable over such period had the person remained continuously 
employed in the position that the person last held before transferring 
to the international organization.
    ``(e) For purposes of section 8432(g), a covered person shall be 
credited with a period of civilian service equal to the period 
beginning on the date of transfer of the person (as described in 
subsection (a)(1)) and ending on the day before the date of 
reemployment of the person (as described in subsection (a)(3)).
    ``(f) The Executive Director shall prescribe regulations to carry 
out this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 84 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8432b the following:

``8432c. Contributions of certain persons reemployed after service with 
                            international organizations.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to persons reemployed on or after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 333. HOME SERVICE TRANSFER ALLOWANCE.

    Section 5922 of title 5, United States Code is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Upon the death of an employee, a transfer allowance under 
section 5924(2)(B) may be furnished to any spouse or dependent of such 
employee for the purpose of returning such spouse or dependent to the 
United States.''.

SEC. 334. PARENTAL CHOICE IN EDUCATION.

    Section 5924(4) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``between that post 
        and the nearest locality where adequate schools are 
        available,'' and inserting ``between that post and the school 
        chosen by the employee, not to exceed the total cost to the 
        Government of the dependent attending an adequate school in the 
        nearest locality where an adequate school is available,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) In those cases in which an adequate school is 
                available at the post of the employee, if the employee 
                chooses to educate the dependent at a school away from 
                post, the education allowance which includes board and 
                room, and periodic travel between the post and the 
                school chosen, shall not exceed the total cost to the 
                Government of the dependent attending an adequate 
                school at the post of the employee.''.

SEC. 335. MEDICAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.

    Section 5927 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``Up''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), up to three months' pay may be 
paid in advance to--
            ``(A) a United States citizen employee of an agency (other 
        than a United States citizen employed under section 311(a) of 
        the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3951(a))--
                    ``(i) who is assigned or located outside of the 
                United States pursuant to Government authorization; and
                    ``(ii) who must, or has a family member who must, 
                undergo outside of the United States medical treatment 
                of the nature specified in regulations promulgated by 
                the Secretary of State; and
            ``(B) each foreign national employee appointed under 
        section 303 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3943) 
        and each United States citizen employed under section 311(a) of 
        that Act (22 U.S.C. 3951(a)) who is not a family member of a 
        government employee assigned abroad--
                    ``(i) who is located outside of the country of 
                employment pursuant to United States Government 
                authorization; and
                    ``(ii) who must undergo outside the country of 
                employment medical treatment of the nature specified in 
                regulations promulgated by the Secretary of State.
    ``(2) Not more than 3 months pay may be advanced to an employee 
with respect to any single illness or injury, without regard to the 
number of courses of medical treatment required by the employee.
    ``(3)(A) Subject to the adjustment of the account of an employee 
under subparagraph (B) and other applicable provisions of law, the 
amount paid to an employee in advance shall be equal to the rate of pay 
authorized with respect to the employee on the date the advance payment 
is made under agency procedures governing other advance payments 
permitted under this subchapter.
    ``(B) The head of each agency shall provide for--
            ``(i) the review of the account of each employee of the 
        agency who receives any advance payment under this section; and
            ``(ii) the recovery of the amount of pay or waiver thereof.
    ``(4) For the purposes of this subsection, the term `country of 
employment' means the country outside the United States where the 
employee was appointed for employment or employed by the United States 
Government.''.

SEC. 336. REPORT CONCERNING FINANCIAL DISADVANTAGES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE 
              AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that administrative and technical 
personnel posted to United States missions abroad who do not have 
diplomatic status suffer financial disadvantages from their lack of 
such status.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the 
appropriate congressional committees concerning the extent to which 
administrative and technical personnel posted to United States missions 
abroad who do not have diplomatic status suffer financial disadvantages 
from their lack of such status, including proposals to alleviate such 
disadvantages.

SEC. 337. STATE DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR GENERAL AND PERSONNEL 
              INVESTIGATIONS.

    (a) Amendment of the Foreign Service Act of 1980.--Section 209(c) 
of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929(c)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Investigations.--
                    ``(A) Conduct of investigations.--In conducting 
                investigations of potential violations of Federal 
                criminal law or Federal regulations, the Inspector 
                General shall--
                            ``(i) abide by professional standards 
                        applicable to Federal law enforcement agencies; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) permit each subject of an 
                        investigation an opportunity to provide 
                        exculpatory information.
                    ``(B) Reports of investigations.--In order to 
                ensure that reports of investigations are thorough and 
                accurate, the Inspector General shall--
                            ``(i) make every reasonable effort to 
                        ensure that any person named in a report of 
                        investigation has been afforded an opportunity 
                        to refute any allegation or assertion made 
                        regarding that person's actions;
                            ``(ii) include in every report of 
                        investigation any exculpatory information, as 
                        well as any inculpatory information, that has 
                        been discovered in the course of the 
                        investigation.''.
    (b) Annual Report.--Section 209(d)(2) of the Foreign Service Act of 
1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929(d)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (D);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(F) a description, which may be included, if 
                necessary, in the classified portion of the report, of 
                any instance in a case that was closed during the 
                period covered by the report when the Inspector General 
                decided not to afford an individual the opportunity 
                described in subsection (c)(5)(B)(i) to refute any 
                allegation or assertion, and the rationale for denying 
                such individual that opportunity.''.
    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in the amendments made by this 
section may be construed to modify--
            (1) section 209(d)(4) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
        (22 U.S.C. 3929(d)(4));
            (2) section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
        U.S.C. app.);
            (3) the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a); or
            (4) the provisions of section 2302(b)(8) of title 5 
        (relating to whistleblower protection).
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to cases opened on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

        TITLE IV--EMBASSY SECURITY AND COUNTERTERRORISM MEASURES

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Secure Embassy Construction and 
Counterterrorism Act of 1999''.

SEC. 402. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On August 7, 1998, the United States embassies in 
        Nairobi, Kenya, and in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, were destroyed 
        by simultaneously exploding bombs. The resulting explosions 
        killed 220 persons and injured more than 4,000 others. Twelve 
        Americans and 40 Kenyan and Tanzanian employees of the United 
        States Foreign Service were killed in the attack.
            (2) The United States personnel in both Dar es Salaam and 
        Nairobi showed leadership and personal courage in their 
        response to the attacks. Despite the havoc wreaked upon the 
        embassies, staff in both embassies provided rapid response in 
        locating and rescuing victims, providing emergency assistance, 
        and quickly restoring embassy operations during a crisis.
            (3) The bombs are believed to have been set by individuals 
        associated with Osama bin Laden, leader of a known 
        transnational terrorist organization. In February 1998, bin 
        Laden issued a directive to his followers that called for 
        attacks against United States interests anywhere in the world.
            (4) Following the bombings, additional threats have been 
        made against United States diplomatic facilities.
            (5) Accountability Review Boards were convened following 
        the bombings, as required by Public Law 99-399, chaired by 
        Admiral William J. Crowe, United States Navy (Ret.) (in this 
        section referred to as the ``Crowe panels'').
            (6) The conclusions of the Crowe panels were strikingly 
        similar to those stated by the Commission chaired by Admiral 
        Bobby Ray Inman, which issued an extensive embassy security 
        report more than 14 years ago.
            (7) The Crowe panels issued a report setting out many 
        problems with security at United States diplomatic facilities, 
        in particular the following:
                    (A) The United States Government has devoted 
                inadequate resources to security against terrorist 
                attacks.
                    (B) The United States Government places too low a 
                priority on security concerns.
            (8) The result has been a failure to take adequate steps to 
        prevent tragedies such as the bombings in Kenya and Tanzania.
            (9) The Crowe panels found that there was an institutional 
        failure on the part of the Department of State to recognize 
        threats posed by transnational terrorism and vehicular bombs.
            (10) Responsibility for ensuring adequate resources for 
        security programs is widely shared throughout the United States 
        Government, including Congress. Unless the vulnerabilities 
        identified by the Crowe panels are addressed in a sustained and 
        financially realistic manner, the lives and safety of United 
        States employees in diplomatic facilities will continue to be 
        at risk from further terrorist attacks.
            (11) Although service in the Foreign Service or other 
        United States Government positions abroad can never be 
        completely without risk, the United States Government must take 
        all reasonable steps to minimize security risks.

SEC. 403. UNITED STATES DIPLOMATIC FACILITY DEFINED.

    In this title, the terms ``United States diplomatic facility'' and 
``diplomatic facility'' mean any chancery, consulate, or other office 
building used by a United States diplomatic mission or consular post or 
by personnel of any agency of the United States abroad, except that 
those terms do not include any facility under the command of a United 
States area military commander.

SEC. 404. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Establishment of Account.--There is established in the general 
fund of the Treasury of the United States an appropriations account for 
the Department of State which shall be known as the ``Embassy 
Construction and Security'' account.
    (b) Purposes.--Funds made available under the ``Embassy 
Construction and Security'' account may be used only for the purposes 
of--
            (1) the acquisition of United States diplomatic facilities 
        and, if necessary, any residences or other structures located 
        in close physical proximity to such facilities, or
            (2) the provision of major security enhancements to United 
        States diplomatic facilities,
necessary to bring the United States Government into compliance with 
all requirements applicable to the security of United States diplomatic 
facilities, including the relevant requirements set forth in section 
406.
    (c) Authorizations of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Department of State under ``Embassy Construction and 
        Security''--
                    (A) for fiscal year 2000, $600,000,000;
                    (B) for fiscal year 2001, $600,000,000;
                    (C) for fiscal year 2002, $600,000,000;
                    (D) for fiscal year 2003, $600,000,000; and
                    (E) for fiscal year 2004, $600,000,000.
            (2) Availability of authorizations.--Authorizations of 
        appropriations under paragraph (1) shall remain available until 
        the appropriations are made.
            (3) Availability of funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) are authorized to remain available until 
        expended.

SEC. 405. OBLIGATIONS AND EXPENDITURES.

    (a) Report and Priority of Obligations.--
            (1) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and on February 1 of each year for 5 
        years thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit a 
        classified report to the appropriate congressional committees 
        identifying each diplomatic facility that is a priority for 
        replacement or for any major security enhancement because of 
        its vulnerability to terrorist attack (by reason of the 
        terrorist threat and the current condition of the facility). 
        The report shall list such facilities in groups of 20. The 
        groups shall be ranked in order from most vulnerable to least 
        vulnerable to such an attack.
            (2) Priority on use of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), funds made available in the ``Embassy Construction 
                and Security'' account for a particular project may be 
                used only for those facilities which are listed in the 
                first four groups described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Exceptions.--Funds made available in the 
                ``Embassy Construction and Security'' account may be 
                used for facilities which are not in the first four 
                groups, if the Secretary of State certifies to the 
                appropriate congressional committees that such use of 
                the funds is in the national interest of the United 
                States.
    (b) Congressional Notification Required Prior to Transfer of 
Funds.--Prior to the transfer of funds from the ``Embassy Construction 
and Security'' account to any other account, the Secretary of State 
shall notify the appropriate congressional committees in accordance 
with the procedures applicable to a reprogramming of funds under 
section 34(a) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22 
U.S.C. 2706(a)).
    (c) Semiannual Reports on Acquisition and Major Security 
Upgrades.--On June 1 and December 1 of each year, the Secretary of 
State shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees 
on the embassy construction and security program authorized under this 
title. The report shall include--
            (1) obligations and expenditures--
                    (A) during the previous six months; and
                    (B) since the establishment of the ``Embassy 
                Construction and Security'' account;
            (2) projected obligations and expenditures during the four 
        fiscal quarters following the submission of the report, and how 
        these obligations and expenditures will improve security 
        conditions of specific diplomatic facilities; and
            (3) the status of ongoing acquisition and major security 
        enhancement projects, including any significant changes in--
                    (A) the anticipated budgetary requirements for such 
                projects;
                    (B) the anticipated schedule of such projects; and
                    (C) the anticipated scope of the projects.

SEC. 406. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNITED STATES DIPLOMATIC 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--The following security requirements shall apply 
with respect to United States diplomatic facilities:
            (1) Threat assessments.--
                    (A) Emergency action plan.--The Emergency Action 
                Plan (EAP) of each United States mission shall address 
                the threat of large explosive attacks from vehicles and 
                the safety of employees during such an explosive 
                attack.
                    (B) Security environment threat list.--The Security 
                Environment Threat List shall contain a section that 
                addresses potential acts of international terrorism 
                against United States diplomatic facilities based on 
                threat identification criteria that emphasize the 
                threat of transnational terrorism and include the local 
                security environment, host government support, and 
                other relevant factors such as cultural realities.
            (2) Site selection.--
                    (A) In general.--In selecting sites for new United 
                States diplomatic facilities abroad, all personnel of 
                United States Government agencies except those under 
                the command of a United States area military commander 
                shall be located on the same compound.
                    (B) Waiver.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary of State may 
                        waive subparagraph (A) if--
                                    (I) the Secretary and the head of 
                                each agency employing affected 
                                personnel determine and certify to the 
                                appropriate congressional committees 
                                that security so permits, and it is in 
                                the national interest of the United 
                                States to do so; and
                                    (II) the Secretary provides the 
                                appropriate congressional committees in 
                                writing the reasons justifying the 
                                determination under subclause (I).
                            (ii) Authority not delegable.--The 
                        Secretary may not delegate the authority 
                        provided in clause (i).
                    (C) Congressional notification.--Any waiver under 
                this paragraph may be exercised only on a date that is 
                at least 15 days after notification of the intention to 
                waive this paragraph has been provided to the 
                appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Perimeter distance.--
                    (A) Requirement.--Each newly acquired United States 
                diplomatic facility shall be sited not less than 100 
                feet from the perimeter of the property on which the 
                facility is to be situated.
                    (B) Waiver.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary of State may 
                        waive subparagraph (A) if--
                                    (I) the Secretary determines and 
                                certifies to the appropriate 
                                congressional committees that security 
                                so permits, and it is in the national 
                                interest of the United States to do so; 
                                and
                                    (II) the Secretary provides the 
                                appropriate congressional committees in 
                                writing the reasons justifying the 
                                determination under subclause (I).
                            (ii) Authority not delegable.--The 
                        Secretary may not delegate the authority 
                        provided in clause (i).
            (4) Crisis management training.--
                    (A) Training of headquarters staff.--The 
                appropriate personnel of the Department of State 
                headquarters staff shall undertake crisis management 
                training for mass casualty and mass destruction 
                incidents relating to diplomatic facilities for the 
                purpose of bringing about a rapid response to such 
                incidents from Department of State headquarters in 
                Washington, D.C.
                    (B) Training of personnel abroad.--A program of 
                appropriate instruction in crisis management shall be 
                provided to personnel at United States diplomatic 
                facilities abroad.
            (5) State department support.--
                    (A) Foreign emergency support team.--The Foreign 
                Emergency Support Team (FEST) of the Department of 
                State shall receive sufficient support from the 
                Department, including--
                            (i) conducting routine training exercises 
                        of the FEST;
                            (ii) providing personnel identified to 
                        serve on the FEST as a collateral duty;
                            (iii) providing personnel to assist in 
                        activities such as security, medical relief, 
                        public affairs, engineering, and building 
                        safety; and
                            (iv) providing such additional support as 
                        may be necessary to enable the FEST to provide 
                        support in a post-crisis environment involving 
                        mass casualties and physical damage.
                    (B) FEST aircraft.--
                            (i) Replacement aircraft.--The President 
                        shall develop a plan to replace on a priority 
                        basis the current FEST aircraft funded by the 
                        Department of Defense with a dedicated, 
                        capable, and reliable replacement aircraft and 
                        backup aircraft, to be operated and maintained 
                        by the Department of Defense.
                            (ii) Report.--Not later than 60 days after 
                        the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        President shall submit a report to the 
                        appropriate congressional committees describing 
                        the aircraft selected pursuant to clause (i) 
                        and the arrangements for the funding, 
                        operation, and maintenance of that aircraft.
            (6) Rapid response procedures.--The Secretary of State 
        shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the 
        Secretary of Defense setting out rapid response procedures for 
        mobilization of personnel and equipment of their respective 
        departments to provide more effective assistance in times of 
        emergency with respect to United States diplomatic facilities.
            (7) Storage of emergency equipment and records.--All United 
        States diplomatic facilities shall have emergency equipment and 
        records required in case of an emergency situation stored at an 
        off-site facility.
    (b) National Security Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The President may waive the application of 
        paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a) with respect to a 
        diplomatic facility, other than a United States diplomatic 
        mission or consular post or a United States Agency for 
        International Development mission, if the President determines 
        that--
                    (A) it is important to the national security of the 
                United States to so exempt that facility; and
                    (B) all feasible steps are being taken, consistent 
                with the national security requirements that require 
                the waiver, to minimize the risk and the possible 
                consequences of a terrorist attack involving that 
                facility or its personnel.
            (2) Periodic reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2000, 
                and every six months thereafter, the President shall 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
                classified report describing--
                            (i) the waivers that have been exercised 
                        under this subsection during the preceding six-
                        month period or, in the case of the initial 
                        report, during the period since the date of 
                        enactment of this Act; and
                            (ii) the steps taken to maintain maximum 
                        feasible security at the facilities involved.
                    (B) Special rule.--Any waiver that, for national 
                security reasons, may not be described in a report 
                required by subparagraph (A) shall be noted in that 
                report and described in an appendix submitted to the 
                congressional committees with direct oversight 
                responsibility for the facility.
    (c) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this section alters or 
amends existing security requirements not addressed by this section.

SEC. 407. CLOSURE OF VULNERABLE POSTS.

    (a) Review.--The Secretary of State shall review the findings of 
the Overseas Presence Advisory Panel.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after submission 
        of the Overseas Presence Panel Report, the Secretary of State 
        shall submit a report to Congress setting forth the results of 
        the review conducted under subsection (a).
            (2) Elements of the report.--The report shall--
                    (A) specify whether any United States diplomatic 
                facility should be closed because--
                            (i) the facility is highly vulnerable and 
                        subject to threat of terrorist attack; and
                            (ii) adequate security enhancements cannot 
                        be provided to the facility;
                    (B) in the event that closure of a diplomatic 
                facility is required, identify plans to provide secure 
                premises for permanent use by the United States 
                diplomatic mission, whether in country or in a regional 
                United States diplomatic facility, or for temporary 
                occupancy by the mission in a facility pending 
                acquisition of new buildings;
                    (C) outline the potential for reduction or transfer 
                of personnel or closure of missions if technology is 
                adequately exploited for maximum efficiencies;
                    (D) examine the possibility of creating regional 
                missions in certain parts of the world;
                    (E) in the case of diplomatic facilities that are 
                part of the Special Embassy Program, report on the 
                foreign policy objectives served by retaining such 
                missions, balancing the importance of these objectives 
                against the well-being of United States personnel; and
                    (F) examine the feasibility of opening new regional 
                outreach centers, modeled on the system used by the 
                United States Embassy in Paris, France, with each 
                center designed to operate--
                            (i) at no additional cost to the United 
                        States Government;
                            (ii) with staff consisting of one or two 
                        Foreign Service officers currently assigned to 
                        the United States diplomatic mission in the 
                        country in which the center is located; and
                            (iii) in a region of the country with high 
                        gross domestic product (GDP), a high density 
                        population, and a media market that not only 
                        includes but extends beyond the region.

SEC. 408. ACCOUNTABILITY REVIEW BOARDS.

    Section 301 of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism 
Act of 1986 (22 U.S.C. 4831) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 301. ACCOUNTABILITY REVIEW BOARDS.

    ``(a) In General.
            ``(1) Convening a board.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (2), in any case of serious injury, loss of life, or 
        significant destruction of property at or related to a United 
        States Government mission abroad, and in any case of a serious 
        breach of security involving intelligence activities of a 
        foreign government directed at a United States Government 
        mission abroad, which is covered by the provisions of titles I 
        through IV (other than a facility or installation subject to 
        the control of a United States area military commander), the 
        Secretary of State shall convene an Accountability Review Board 
        (in this title referred to as the `Board'). The Secretary shall 
        not convene a Board where the Secretary determines that a case 
        clearly involves only causes unrelated to security.
            ``(2) Department of defense facilities and personnel.--The 
        Secretary of State is not required to convene a Board in the 
        case of an incident described in paragraph (1) that involves 
        any facility, installation, or personnel of the Department of 
        Defense with respect to which the Secretary has delegated 
        operational control of overseas security functions to the 
        Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 106 of this Act. In 
        any such case, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
        appropriate inquiry. The Secretary of Defense shall report the 
        findings and recommendations of such inquiry, and the action 
        taken with respect to such recommendations, to the Secretary of 
        State and Congress.
    ``(b) Deadlines for Convening Boards.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of State shall convene a Board not later than 60 days 
        after the occurrence of an incident described in subsection 
        (a)(1), except that such 60-day period may be extended for two 
        additional 30-day periods if the Secretary determines that the 
        additional period or periods are necessary for the convening of 
        the Board.
            ``(2) Delay in cases involving intelligence activities.--
        With respect to breaches of security involving intelligence 
        activities, the Secretary of State may delay the establishment 
        of a Board if, after consultation with the chairman of the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the chairman 
        of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
        of Representatives, the Secretary determines that doing so 
        would compromise intelligence sources and methods. The 
        Secretary shall promptly advise the chairmen of such committees 
        of each determination pursuant to this paragraph to delay the 
        establishment of a Board.
    ``(c) Notification to Congress.--Whenever the Secretary of State 
convenes a Board, the Secretary shall promptly inform the chairman of 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives--
            ``(1) that a Board has been convened;
            ``(2) of the membership of the Board; and
            ``(3) of other appropriate information about the Board.''.

SEC. 409. AWARDS OF FOREIGN SERVICE STARS.

    The State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 is amended by 
inserting after section 36 (22 U.S.C. 2708) the following new section:

``SEC. 36A. AWARDS OF FOREIGN SERVICE STARS.

    ``(a) Authority to Award.--The President, upon the recommendation 
of the Secretary, may award a Foreign Service star to any member of the 
Foreign Service or any other civilian employee of the Government of the 
United States who, after August 1, 1998, while employed at, or assigned 
permanently or temporarily to, an official mission overseas or while 
traveling abroad on official business, incurred a wound or other injury 
or an illness (whether or not the wound, other injury, or illness 
resulted in death) in a case described in subsection (b)--
            ``(1) as the person was performing official duties;
            ``(2) as the person was on the premises of a United States 
        mission abroad; or
            ``(3) by reason of the person's status as a United States 
        Government employee.
    ``(b) Cases Resulting From Unlawful Conduct.--Cases covered by 
subsection (a) include cases of wounds or other injuries incurred as a 
result of terrorist or military action, civil unrest, or criminal 
activities directed at any facility of the Government of the United 
States.
    ``(c) Selection Criteria.--The Secretary shall prescribe the 
procedures for identifying and considering persons eligible for award 
of a Foreign Service star and for selecting the persons to be 
recommended for the award.
    ``(d) Award in the Event of Death.--If a person selected for award 
of a Foreign Service star dies before being presented the award, the 
award may be made and the star presented to the person's family or to 
the person's representative, as designated by the President.
    ``(e) Form of Award.--The Secretary shall prescribe the design of 
the Foreign Service star. The award may not include a stipend or any 
other cash payment.
    ``(f) Funding.--Any expenses incurred in awarding a person a 
Foreign Service star may be paid out of appropriations available at the 
time of the award for personnel of the department or agency of the 
United States Government in which the person was employed when the 
person incurred the wound, injury, or illness upon which the award is 
based.''.

      TITLE V--UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING ACTIVITIES

SEC. 501. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The following amounts are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out the United States International Broadcasting 
Act of 1994, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, and the Television 
Broadcasting to Cuba Act, and to carry out other authorities in law 
consistent with such purposes:
            (1) International broadcasting activities.--For 
        ``International Broadcasting Activities'', $408,979,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2000, and $408,979,000 for the fiscal year 2001.
            (2) Radio construction.--For ``Radio Construction'', 
        $20,868,000 for the fiscal year 2000, and $20,868,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2001.
            (3) Broadcasting to cuba.--For ``Broadcasting to Cuba'', 
        $22,743,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and $22,743,000 for the 
        fiscal year 2001.

SEC. 502. REAUTHORIZATION OF RADIO FREE ASIA.

    Section 309 of the United States International Broadcasting Act of 
1994 (22 U.S.C. 6208) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c);
            (2) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), 
        and (i) as subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h), 
        respectively;
            (3) in subsection (c) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``(A)''; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B);
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 
                1999'' and inserting ``September 30, 2005'';
                    (C) in paragraph (4), by striking ``$22,000,000 in 
                any fiscal year'' and inserting ``$28,000,000 in each 
                of the fiscal years 2000 and 2001'';
                    (D) by striking paragraph (5); and
                    (E) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph 
                (5); and
            (4) by amending subsection (f) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (2)) to read as follows:
    ``(f) Sunset Provision.--The Board may not make any grant for the 
purpose of operating Radio Free Asia after September 30, 2005.''.

SEC. 503. NOMINATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BROADCASTING 
              BOARD OF GOVERNORS.

    Section 304(b)(2) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6203 (b)(2)), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``designate'' and inserting ``appoint''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``, subject to the 
        advice and consent of the Senate''.

    TITLE VI--ARMS CONTROL, NONPROLIFERATION, AND NATIONAL SECURITY

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Arms Control, Nonproliferation, 
and National Security Act of 1999''.

SEC. 602. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the position of Assistant Secretary of State for 
        Verification and Compliance designated under section 612.
            (2) Convention on nuclear safety.--The term ``Convention on 
        Nuclear Safety'' means the Convention on Nuclear Safety, done 
        at Vienna on September 20, 1994 (Senate Treaty Document 104-6).
            (3) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 105 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (4) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(4) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).
            (5) START treaty or treaty.--The term ``START Treaty'' or 
        ``Treaty'' means the Treaty With the Union of Soviet Socialist 
        Republics on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic 
        Offensive Arms, including all agreed statements, annexes, 
        protocols, and memoranda, signed at Moscow on July 31, 1991.
            (6) START ii treaty.--The term ``START II Treaty'' means 
        the Treaty Between the United States of America and the Russian 
        Federation on Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic 
        Offensive Arms, and related protocols and memorandum of 
        understanding, signed at Moscow on January 3, 1993.
            (7) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on 
        International Relations and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
        on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
        of the Senate.

                        Subtitle A--Arms Control

   CHAPTER 1--EFFECTIVE VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH ARMS CONTROL 
                               AGREEMENTS

SEC. 611. KEY VERIFICATION ASSETS FUND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State is authorized to transfer 
funds available to the Department of State under this section to the 
Department of Defense, Department of Energy, or any agency, entity, or 
other component of the intelligence community, as needed, for 
retaining, researching, developing, or acquiring technologies or 
programs relating to the verification of arms control, nonproliferation 
and disarmament agreements or commitments.
    (b) Prohibition on Reprogramming.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds made available to carry out this section may 
not be used for any purpose other than the purposes specified in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Funding.--Of the total amount of funds authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of State by this Act for the fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001, $5,000,000 is authorized to be available for each 
such fiscal year to carry out subsection (a).
    (d) Designation of Fund.--Amounts made available under subsection 
(c) may be referred to as the ``Key Verification Assets Fund''.

SEC. 612. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR VERIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE.

    (a) Designation of Position.--The Secretary of State shall 
designate one of the Assistant Secretaries of State authorized by 
section 1(c)(1) of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 
(22 U.S.C. 2651a(c)(1)) as the Assistant Secretary of State for 
Verification and Compliance. The Assistant Secretary shall report to 
the Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International 
Security.
    (b) Directive Governing the Assistant Secretary of State.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall issue a 
        directive governing the position of Assistant Secretary.
            (2) Elements of the directive.--The directive issued under 
        paragraph (1) shall set forth, consistent with this section--
                    (A) the duties of the Assistant Secretary;
                    (B) the relationships between the Assistant 
                Secretary and other officials of the Department of 
                State;
                    (C) any delegation of authority from the Secretary 
                of State to the Assistant Secretary; and
                    (D) such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (c) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary shall have as his 
        principal responsibility the overall supervision (including 
        oversight of policy and resources) within the Department of 
        State of all matters relating to verification and compliance 
        with international arms control, nonproliferation, and 
        disarmament agreements or commitments.
            (2) Participation of the assistant secretary.--
                    (A) Primary role.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C), the Assistant Secretary, or 
                his designee, shall participate in all interagency 
                groups or organizations within the executive branch of 
                Government that assess, analyze, or review United 
                States planned or ongoing policies, programs, or 
                actions that have a direct bearing on verification or 
                compliance matters, including interagency intelligence 
                committees concerned with the development or 
                exploitation of measurement or signals intelligence or 
                other national technical means of verification.
                    (B) Requirement for designation.--Subparagraph (A) 
                shall not apply to groups or organizations on which the 
                Secretary of State or the Undersecretary of State for 
                Arms Control and International Security sits, unless 
                such official designates the Assistant Secretary to 
                attend in his stead.
                    (C) National security limitation.--
                            (i) The President may waive the provisions 
                        of subparagraph (A) if inclusion of the 
                        Assistant Secretary would not be in the 
                        national security interests of the United 
                        States.
                            (ii) With respect to an interagency group 
                        or organization, or meeting thereof, working 
                        with exceptionally sensitive information 
                        contained in compartments under the control of 
                        the Director of Central Intelligence, the 
                        Secretary of Defense, or the Secretary of 
                        Energy, such Director or Secretary, as the case 
                        may be, may waive the provision of subparagraph 
                        (A) if inclusion of the Assistant Secretary 
                        would not be in the national security interests 
                        of the United States.
                            (iii) Any waiver of participation under 
                        clause (i) or (ii) shall be transmitted in 
                        writing to the appropriate committees of 
                        Congress.
            (3) Relationship to the intelligence community.--The 
        Assistant Secretary shall be the principal policy community 
        representative to the intelligence community on verification 
        and compliance matters.
            (4) Reporting responsibilities.--The Assistant Secretary 
        shall have responsibility within the Department of State for--
                    (A) all reports required pursuant to section 37 of 
                the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2577);
                    (B) so much of the report required under paragraphs 
                (5) through (10) of section 51(a) of the Arms Control 
                and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a(a)) as relates to 
                verification or compliance matters; and
                    (C) other reports being prepared by the Department 
                of State as of the date of enactment of this Act 
                relating to arms control, nonproliferation, or 
                disarmament verification or compliance matters.

SEC. 613. ENHANCED ANNUAL (``PELL'') REPORT.

    Section 51(a) of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 
2593a(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (6);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (3) in paragraph (6), by inserting:
                    (A) ``or commitments, including the Missile 
                Technology Control Regime,'' after ``agreements'' the 
                first time it appears;
                    (B) ``or commitments'' after ``agreements'' the 
                second time it appears; and
                    (C) ``or commitment'' after ``agreement'';
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) a specific identification, to the maximum extent 
        practicable in unclassified form, of each and every question 
        that exists with respect to compliance by other countries with 
        arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament agreements with 
        the United States.''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Each report shall include a discussion of each significant 
issue contained in a previous report issued during 1995, or after 
December 31, 1995, pursuant to paragraph (6), until the question or 
concern has been resolved and such resolution has been reported to the 
appropriate committees of Congress (as defined in section 601(7) of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001) in 
detail.''.

SEC. 614. REPORT ON START AND START II TREATIES MONITORING ISSUES.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director of Central Intelligence shall submit a detailed 
classified report to the appropriate committees of Congress including 
the following:
            (1) A comprehensive identification of all monitoring 
        activities associated with the START and START II treaties.
            (2) The specific intelligence community assets and 
        capabilities, including analytical capabilities, that the 
        Senate was informed, prior to the Senate giving its advice and 
        consent to ratification of the treaties, would be necessary to 
        accomplish those activities.
            (3) An identification of the extent to which those assets 
        and capabilities have, or have not, been attained or retained, 
        and the corresponding effect this has had upon United States 
        monitoring confidence levels.
            (4) An assessment of any Russian activities relating to the 
        START Treaty which have had an impact upon the ability of the 
        United States to monitor Russian adherence to the Treaty.
    (b) Compartmented Annex.--Exceptionally sensitive, compartmented 
information in the report required by this section may be provided in a 
compartmented annex submitted to the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
House of Representatives.

SEC. 615. STANDARDS FOR VERIFICATION.

    (a) Definitions.--It is the sense of the Senate that the following 
terms when used in publications of the United States Government, or in 
oral representations by officials of the United States Government, 
should have the following meanings:
            (1) Effectively verifiable.--The term ``effectively 
        verifiable'' means that the requirements of subparagraphs (A) 
        and (B) are met, as follows:
                    (A) The Director of Central Intelligence has 
                certified to the President that the intelligence 
                community has a high degree of confidence, with respect 
                to a particular treaty or other agreement, in its 
                ability to detect any militarily significant violation 
                of the treaty or other agreement in a timely fashion, 
                and to detect patterns of marginal violation over time. 
                In determining the intelligence community's confidence, 
                the Director should assume that all measures of 
                concealment could be employed and that standard 
                practices could be altered so as to impede monitoring.
                    (B) The Secretaries of State and Defense and the 
                Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have certified to 
                the President that they have a high degree of 
                confidence, with respect to a particular treaty or 
                other agreement, that the United States will be able to 
                reach a legal and technical determination regarding any 
                militarily significant violation of the treaty or other 
                agreement in a timely fashion, and to reach such a 
                determination regarding patterns of marginal violation, 
                once detected. In determining the level of confidence 
                under this subparagraph, the Secretaries of State and 
                Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
                should assume that all measures of concealment could be 
                employed and that standard practices could be altered 
                so as to impede monitoring.
            (2) Militarily significant violation.--The Chairman of the 
        Joint Chiefs of Staff, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        Defense, has sole responsibility for determining with 
        specificity, for purposes of any treaty or other international 
        agreement having implications for the national security of the 
        United States, what constitutes a militarily significant 
        violation. In making such a determination, the Chairman should 
        give great weight to his judgment that the violation could pose 
        a threat to the national security interests of the United 
        States.
            (3) Timely fashion defined.--In this section, the term 
        ``timely fashion'' means in sufficient time for the United 
        States to take remedial action to safeguard the national 
        security.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 37(a) of the Arms Control and 
Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2577(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``adequately'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), and (d) as 
        subsections (c), (d), and (e); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(b) Assessments Upon Request.--Upon the request of the chairman 
or ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate or the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
Representatives, in case of an arms control, nonproliferation, or 
disarmament proposal--
            ``(1) under consideration for presentation to a foreign 
        country by the United States;
            ``(2) presented to a foreign country by the United States; 
        or
            ``(3) presented to the United States by a foreign country;
the Secretary of State shall submit a report to the Committee on the 
degree to which elements of the proposal are capable of being 
verified.''.

SEC. 616. CONTRIBUTION TO THE ADVANCEMENT OF SEISMOLOGY.

    The United States Government shall make available to the public in 
real time, or as quickly as possible, all raw seismological data 
provided to the United States Government by any international 
organization that is directly responsible for seismological monitoring.

SEC. 617. PROTECTION OF UNITED STATES COMPANIES.

    The United States National Authority (as designated pursuant to 
section 101 of the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 
1998 (as contained in division I of Public Law 105-277)) shall 
reimburse the Federal Bureau of Investigation for all costs incurred by 
the Bureau in connection with implementation of section 303(b)(2)(A) of 
that Act, except that such reimbursement may not exceed $1,000,000 in 
any fiscal year.

SEC. 618. PRESERVATION OF THE START TREATY VERIFICATION REGIME.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) Paragraph 6 of Article XI of the START Treaty states 
        the following: ``Each Party shall have the right to conduct 
        reentry vehicle inspections of deployed ICBMs and SLBMs to 
        confirm that such ballistic missiles contain no more reentry 
        vehicles than the number of warheads attributed to them.''.
            (2) Paragraph 1 of Section IX of the Inspections Protocol 
        to the START Treaty states that each Party ``shall have the 
        right to conduct a total of ten reentry vehicle inspections 
        each year''.
            (3) Paragraph 4 of Section XVIII of the Inspections 
        Protocol to the START Treaty states that the Parties ``shall, 
        when possible, clarify ambiguities regarding factual 
        information contained in the inspection report'' that each 
        inspection team must provide at the end of an inspection, 
        pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section XVIII of that Protocol.
            (4) Paragraph 12 of Annex 3 to the Inspections Protocol to 
        the START Treaty states that, once a missile has been selected 
        and prepared for reentry vehicle inspection, the inspectors 
        shall be given ``a clear, unobstructed view of the front 
        section [of the missile], to ascertain that the front section 
        contains no more reentry vehicles than the number of warheads 
        attributed to missiles of that type''.
            (5) Paragraph 13 of Annex 3 to the Inspections Protocol to 
        the START Treaty states the following: ``If a member of the in-
        country escort declares that an object contained in the front 
        section is not a reentry vehicle, the inspected Party shall 
        demonstrate to the satisfaction of the inspectors that this 
        object is not a reentry vehicle.''.
            (6) Section II of Annex 8 to the Inspections Protocol to 
        the START Treaty provides that radiation detection equipment 
        may be used during reentry vehicle inspections.
            (7) Paragraph F.1 of Section VI of Annex 8 to the 
        Inspections Protocol to the START Treaty states the following: 
        ``Radiation detection equipment shall be used to measure 
        nuclear radiation levels in order to demonstrate that objects 
        declared to be non-nuclear are non-nuclear.''.
            (8) While the use of radiation detection equipment may help 
        to determine whether an object that ``a member of the in-
        country escort declares..is not a reentry vehicle'' is a 
        reentry vehicle with a nuclear warhead, it cannot help to 
        determine whether that object is a reentry vehicle with a non-
        nuclear warhead.
            (9) Article XV of the START Treaty provides for a Joint 
        Compliance and Inspection Commission that shall meet to 
        ``resolve questions relating to compliance with the obligations 
        assumed''.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) the United States should assert and, to the maximum 
        extent possible, exercise the right for reentry vehicle 
        inspectors to obtain a clear, unobstructed view of the front 
        section of a deployed SS-18 ICBM selected for reentry vehicle 
        inspection pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article XI of the START 
        Treaty;
            (2) the United States should assert and, to the maximum 
        extent possible, obtain Russian compliance with the obligation 
        of the host Party, pursuant to paragraph 13 of Annex 3 to the 
        Inspections Protocol to the START Treaty, to demonstrate to the 
        satisfaction of the inspectors that an object which is declared 
        not to be a reentry vehicle is not a reentry vehicle;
            (3) if a member of the in-country escort declares that an 
        object contained in the front section of a deployed SS-18 ICBM 
        selected for reentry vehicle inspection pursuant to paragraph 6 
        of Article XI of the START Treaty is not a reentry vehicle, but 
        the inspected Party does not demonstrate to the satisfaction of 
        the inspectors that this object is not a reentry vehicle, the 
        United States inspection team should record this fact in the 
        official inspection report as an ambiguity and the United 
        States should raise this matter in the Joint Compliance and 
        Inspection Commission as a concern relating to compliance of 
        Russia with the obligations assumed under the Treaty;
            (4) the United States should not agree to any arrangement 
        whereby the use of radiation detection equipment in a reentry 
        vehicle inspection, or a combination of the use of such 
        equipment and Russian assurances regarding SS-18 ICBMs, would 
        suffice to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the inspectors 
        that an object which is declared not to be a reentry vehicle is 
        not a reentry vehicle; and
            (5) the United States should not agree to any arrangement 
        whereby the use of technical equipment in a reentry vehicle 
        inspection would suffice to demonstrate to the satisfaction of 
        the inspectors that an object which is declared not to be a 
        reentry vehicle is not a reentry vehicle, unless the Director 
        of Central Intelligence, in consultation with the Secretaries 
        of State, Defense, and Energy, has determined that such 
        equipment can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the inspectors 
        that an object which is declared not to be a reentry vehicle is 
        not a reentry vehicle.
    (c) START Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term ``START 
Treaty'' means the Treaty With the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, including 
all agreed statements, annexes, protocols, and memoranda, signed at 
Moscow on July 31, 1991.

  CHAPTER 2--LANDMINE POLICY, DEMINING ACTIVITIES, AND RELATED MATTERS

SEC. 621. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    Subsection (d) of section 248 of the Strom Thurmond National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 112 
Stat. 1958) is amended by inserting ``, and to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of 
the House of Representatives,'' after ``congressional defense 
committees''.

SEC. 622. DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED HUMANITARIAN DEMINING CAPABILITIES 
              FUND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State is authorized to transfer 
funds available to the Department of State under this section to the 
Department of Defense, Department of Energy, or any of the military 
departments, for researching, developing, adapting, and deploying 
technologies to achieve the destruction or other removal of 
antipersonnel landmines for humanitarian purposes.
    (b) Prohibition on Reprogramming.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, funds made available to carry out this section may 
not be used for any purpose other than the purposes specified in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Funding.--Of the total amount of funds authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of State by this Act for the fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001, $5,000,000 is authorized to be available for each 
such fiscal year to carry out subsection (a).
    (d) Designation of Fund.--Amounts made available under subsection 
(c) may be referred to as the ``Development of Advanced Humanitarian 
Demining Capabilities Fund''.

   Subtitle B--Nuclear Nonproliferation, Safety, and Related Matters

SEC. 631. REPORTING BURDEN ON UNITED STATES NUCLEAR INDUSTRY.

    In carrying out any United States obligation under the Convention 
on Nuclear Safety, no Executive agency may impose any new reporting 
obligation upon any United States business concern.

SEC. 632. AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND NUCLEAR COOPERATION FOR FAILURE TO 
              RATIFY CONVENTION ON NUCLEAR SAFETY.

    Section 132 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2160b) is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting before the period 
        the following: ``or the Convention on Nuclear Safety''; and
            (2) by inserting ``or the Convention on Nuclear Safety'' 
        after ``Material''.

SEC. 633. ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATIVE GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Primary Responsibility of the Secretary of State.--Congress 
urges the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission, to ensure that the functions performed by the 
International Nuclear Regulators Association are undertaken to the 
maximum extent practicable in connection with implementation of the 
Convention on Nuclear Safety.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the President shall submit a report to the Committees on 
Foreign Relations and Appropriations of the Senate and to the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives--
            (1) detailing all activities being undertaken by the United 
        States in the field of international nuclear regulation and 
        nuclear safety, and justifying continuation of such activities 
        if the activities in any way duplicate an activity undertaken 
        pursuant to the Convention on Nuclear Safety; and
            (2) identifying all activities terminated pursuant to his 
        certification made on April 9, 1999, in accordance with 
        Condition (1) of the resolution of ratification for the 
        Convention on Nuclear Safety.

SEC. 634. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF NONPROLIFERATION ACTIVITIES.

    Section 602(c) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 (22 
U.S.C. 3282(c)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c)(1) The Department of State, the Department of Defense, the 
Department of Commerce, the Department of Energy, the Commission, and, 
with regard to subparagraph (B), the Director of Central Intelligence, 
shall keep the Committees on Foreign Relations and Governmental Affairs 
of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House 
of Representatives fully and currently informed with respect to--
            ``(A) their activities to carry out the purposes and 
        policies of this Act and to otherwise prevent proliferation, 
        including the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, or biological 
        weapons, or their means of delivery; and
            ``(B) the current activities of foreign nations which are 
        of significance from the proliferation standpoint.
    ``(2) For the purposes of this subsection with respect to 
subparagraph (B), the phrase `fully and currently informed' means the 
transmittal of information not later than 60 days after becoming aware 
of the activity concerned.''.

SEC. 635. EFFECTIVE USE OF RESOURCES FOR NONPROLIFERATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), no 
assistance may be provided by the United States Government to any 
person who is involved in the research, development, design, testing, 
or evaluation of chemical or biological weapons for offensive purposes.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition contained in subsection (a) shall 
not apply to any activity conducted to title V of the National Security 
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.).

SEC. 636. DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS-GRADE MATERIAL.

    (a) Report on Reduction of the Stockpile.--Not later than 120 days 
after signing an agreement between the United States and Russia for the 
disposition of excess weapons plutonium, the Secretary of Energy, with 
the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, shall submit a report to 
the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services 
of the Senate and to the Speaker of the House of Representatives--
            (1) detailing plans for United States implementation of 
        such agreement;
            (2) identifying the number of United States warhead 
        ``pits'' of each type deemed ``excess'' for the purpose of 
        dismantlement or disposition; and
            (3) describing any implications this may have for the 
        Stockpile Stewardship and Management Program.
    (b) Submission of the Fabrication Facility Agreement Pursuant To 
Law.--Whenever the President submits to Congress the agreement to 
establish a mixed oxide fuel fabrication or production facility in 
Russia pursuant to section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
U.S.C. 2153), it is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State 
should be prepared to certify to the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House 
Representatives that--
            (1) arrangements for the establishment of that facility 
        will further United States nuclear non-proliferation objectives 
        and will outweigh the proliferation risks inherent in the use 
        of mixed oxide fuel elements;
            (2) a guaranty has been given by Russia that no fuel 
        elements produced, fabricated, reprocessed, or assembled at 
        such facility, and no sensitive nuclear technology related to 
        such facility, will be exported or supplied by the Russian 
        Federation to any country in the event that the United States 
        objects to such export or supply; and
            (3) a guaranty has been given by Russia that the facility 
        and all nuclear materials and equipment therein, and any fuel 
        elements or special nuclear material produced, fabricated, 
        reprocessed, or assembled at that facility, including fuel 
        elements exported or supplied by Russia to a third party, will 
        be subject to international monitoring and transparency 
        sufficient to ensure that special nuclear material is not 
        diverted.
    (c) Definitions.--
            (1) Produced.--The terms ``produce'' and ``produced'' have 
        the same meaning that such terms are given under section 11 u. 
        of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
            (2) Production facility.--The term ``production facility'' 
        has the same meaning that such term is given under section 11 
        v. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
            (3) Special nuclear material.--The term ``special nuclear 
        material'' has the meaning that such term is given under 
        section 11 aa. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.

SEC. 637. STATUS OF HONG KONG AND MACAO IN UNITED STATES EXPORT LAW.

    (a) Prelicense Verification.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law and except as provided in subsections (c) and (f), no license 
may be approved for the export to Hong Kong or Macao, as the case may 
be, of any item described in subsection (d) unless appropriate United 
States officials are provided the right and ability to conduct 
prelicense verification, in such manner as the United States considers 
appropriate, of the validity of the stated end-user, and the validity 
of the stated end-use, as specified on the license application.
    (b) Post-Shipment Verification.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law and except as provided in subsections (c) and (f), in 
the event that appropriate United States officials are denied the 
ability to conduct post-shipment verification, in such manner as the 
United States considers appropriate, of the location and end-use of any 
item under their jurisdiction that has been exported from the United 
States to Hong Kong or Macao, then Hong Kong or Macao, as the case may 
be, shall thereafter be treated in the same manner as the People's 
Republic of China for the purpose of any export of any item described 
in subsection (d).
    (c) Waiver Authority.--The Secretary of State, with respect to any 
item defined in subsection (d)(1), or the Secretary of Commerce, with 
respect to any item defined in subsection (d)(2), may waive or remove 
the imposition of the requirements imposed by subsections (a) and (b) 
upon a written finding, which shall be transmitted to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International 
Relations of the House of Representatives, that--
            (1) the case that warranted the imposition of such 
        requirements has been settled to the satisfaction of the United 
        States; or
            (2) there are specific reasons why the waiver or removal of 
        such requirements is in the national interest of the United 
        States.
    (d) Item Defined.--The term ``item'' as used in this section 
means--
            (1) any item controlled on the United States Munitions List 
        under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 
        2778); or
            (2) any item for which export controls are administered by 
        the Department of Commerce for foreign policy or national 
        security reasons.
    (e) Effective Date.--Effective January 1, 2000, this section shall 
apply to Macao.
    (f) Exception.--The provisions of this section do not apply to any 
activity subject to reporting under title V of the National Security 
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.).

                  Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions

SEC. 641. REQUIREMENT FOR TRANSMITTAL OF SUMMARIES.

    Whenever a United States delegation engaging in negotiations on 
arms control, nonproliferation, or disarmament submits to the Secretary 
of State a summary of the activities of the delegation or the status of 
those negotiations, a copy of each such summary shall be further 
transmitted by the Secretary of State to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate promptly.

SEC. 642. PROHIBITION ON WITHHOLDING CERTAIN INFORMATION FROM CONGRESS.

    (a) Prohibition.--No officer or employee of the United States may 
knowingly withhold information from the chairman or ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate or the 
Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives 
that is required to be transmitted pursuant to subsection (c) or (d) of 
section 602 of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978.
    (b) Issuance of Regulations.--Not later than January 1, 2000, the 
Secretaries of State, Defense, Commerce, and Energy, the Director of 
Central Intelligence, and the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall issue directives to implement their responsibilities 
under subsections (c) and (d) of section 602 of the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Act of 1978. Copies of such directives shall be forwarded 
promptly to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives 
upon the issuance of the directives.

SEC. 643. REFORM OF THE DIPLOMATIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROGRAM 
              OFFICE.

    (a) Additional Resources.--In addition to other amounts authorized 
to be appropriated for the purposes of the Diplomatic 
Telecommunications Service Program Office (DTS-PO), of the amounts made 
available to the Department of State under section 101(a)(2), 
$18,000,000 shall be made available only to the DTS-PO for enhancement 
of Diplomatic Telecommunications Service capabilities.
    (b) Improvement of DTS-PO.--In order for the DTS-PO to better 
manage a fully integrated telecommunications network to service all 
agencies at diplomatic missions and consular posts, the DTS-PO shall--
            (1) ensure that those enhancements of, and the provision of 
        service for, telecommunication capabilities that involve the 
        national security interests of the United States receive the 
        highest prioritization;
            (2) not later than December 31, 1999, terminate all leases 
        for satellite systems located at posts in criteria countries, 
        unless all maintenance and servicing of the satellite system is 
        undertaken by United States citizens who have received 
        appropriate security clearances;
            (3) institute a system of charges for utilization of 
        bandwidth by each agency beginning October 1, 2000, and 
        institute a comprehensive chargeback system to recover all, or 
        substantially all, of the other costs of telecommunications 
        services provided through the Diplomatic Telecommunications 
        Service to each agency beginning October 1, 2001;
            (4) ensure that all DTS-PO policies and procedures comply 
        with applicable policies established by the Overseas Security 
        Policy Board; and
            (5) maintain the allocation of the positions of Director 
        and Deputy Director of DTS-PO as those positions were assigned 
        as of June 1, 1999, which assignments shall pertain through 
        fiscal year 2001, at which time such assigments shall be 
        adjusted in the customary manner.
    (c) Report on Improving Management.--Not later than March 31, 2000, 
the Director and Deputy Director of DTS-PO shall jointly submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress the Director's plan for improving 
network architecture, engineering, operations monitoring and control, 
service metrics reporting, and service provisioning, so as to achieve 
highly secure, reliable, and robust communications capabilities that 
meet the needs of both national security agencies and other United 
States agencies with overseas personnel.
    (d) Funding of DTS-PO.--Funds appropriated for allocation to DTS-PO 
shall be made available only for DTS-PO until a comprehensive 
chargeback system is in place.

SEC. 644. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION IN 
              NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ON REDUCTIONS IN 
              STRATEGIC NUCLEAR FORCES.

    It is the sense of Congress that, in negotiating a START III Treaty 
with the Russian Federation, or any other arms control treaty with the 
Russian Federation making comparable amounts of reductions in United 
States strategic nuclear forces--
            (1) the strategic nuclear forces and nuclear modernization 
        programs of the People's Republic of China and every other 
        nation possessing nuclear weapons should be taken into full 
        consideration in the negotiation of such treaty; and
            (2) such programs should not undermine the limitations set 
        forth in the treaty.

SEC. 645. CLARIFICATION OF EXCEPTION TO NATIONAL SECURITY CONTROLS ON 
              SATELLITE EXPORT LICENSING.

    Section 1514(b) of Public Law 105-261 is amended by striking all 
that follows after ``Exception.--'' and inserting the following: 
``Subsections (a)(2), (a)(4), and (a)(8) shall not apply to the export 
of a satellite or satellite-related items for launch in, or by 
nationals of, a country that is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) or that is a major non-NATO ally (as defined in 
section 644(q) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2403(q)) of the United States unless, in each instance of a proposed 
export of such item, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, first provides a written determination to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives that it is in 
the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States 
to apply the export controls required under such subsections.''.

SEC. 646. STUDY ON LICENSING PROCESS UNDER THE ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT.

    Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit to the chairman of the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate and the chairman of the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives a study on the 
performance of the licensing process pursuant to the Arms Export 
Control Act, with recommendations on how to improve that performance. 
The study shall include:
            (1) An analysis of the typology of licenses on which action 
        was completed in 1999. The analysis should provide information 
        on major categories of license requests, including--
                    (A) the number for nonautomatic small arms, 
                automatic small arms, technical data, parts and 
                components, and other weapons;
                    (B) the percentage of each category staffed to 
                other agencies;
                    (C) the average and median time taken for the 
                processing cycle for each category when staffed and not 
                staffed;
                    (D) the average time taken by White House or 
                National Security Council review or scrutiny; and
                    (E) the average time each spent at the Department 
                of State after a decision had been taken on the license 
                but before a contractor was notified of the decision. 
                For each category the study should provide a breakdown 
                of licenses by country. The analysis also should 
                identify each country that has been identified in the 
                past three years pursuant to section 3(e) of the Arms 
                Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2753(e)).
            (2) A review of the current computer capabilities of the 
        Department of State relevant to the processing of licenses and 
        its ability to communicate electronically with other agencies 
        and contractors, and what improvements could be made that would 
        speed the process, including the cost for such improvements.
            (3) An analysis of the work load and salary structure for 
        export licensing officers of the Office of Defense Trade 
        Control of the Department of State as compared to comparable 
        jobs at the Department of Commerce and the Department of 
        Defense.
            (4) Any suggestions of the Department of State relating to 
        resources and regulations, and any relevant statutory changes 
        that might expedite the licensing process while furthering the 
        objectives of the Arms Export Control Act.

                  TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

                 Subtitle A--People's Republic of China

SEC. 701. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Congress concurs in the conclusions of the Department 
        of State, as set forth in the Country Reports on Human Rights 
        Practices for 1998, on human rights in the People's Republic of 
        China in 1998 as follows:
                    (A) ``The People's Republic of China (PRC) is an 
                authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist 
                Party (CCP) is the paramount source of power. . . . 
                Citizens lack both the freedom peacefully to express 
                opposition to the party-led political system and the 
                right to change their national leaders or form of 
                government.''.
                    (B) ``The Government continued to commit widespread 
                and well-documented human rights abuses, in violation 
                of internationally accepted norms. These abuses stemmed 
                from the authorities' very limited tolerance of public 
                dissent aimed at the Government, fear of unrest, and 
                the limited scope or inadequate implementation of laws 
                protecting basic freedoms.''.
                    (C) ``Abuses included instances of extrajudicial 
                killings, torture and mistreatment of prisoners, forced 
                confessions, arbitrary arrest and detention, lengthy 
                incommunicado detention, and denial of due process.''.
                    (D) ``Prison conditions at most facilities remained 
                harsh. . . . The Government infringed on citizens' 
                privacy rights. The Government continued restrictions 
                on freedom of speech and of the press, and tightened 
                these toward the end of the year. The Government 
                severely restricted freedom of assembly, and continued 
                to restrict freedom of association, religion, and 
                movement.''.
                    (E) ``Discrimination against women, minorities, and 
                the disabled; violence against women, including 
                coercive family planning practices--which sometimes 
                include forced abortion and forced sterilization; 
                prostitution, trafficking in women and children, and 
                the abuse of children all are problems.''.
                    (F) ``The Government continued to restrict tightly 
                worker rights, and forced labor remains a problem.''.
                    (G) ``Serious human rights abuses persisted in 
                minority areas, including Tibet and Xinjiang, where 
                restrictions on religion and other fundamental freedoms 
                intensified.''.
                    (H) ``Unapproved religious groups, including 
                Protestant and Catholic groups, continued to experience 
                varying degrees of official interference and 
                repression.''.
                    (I) ``Although the Government denies that it holds 
                political or religious prisoners, and argues that all 
                those in prison are legitimately serving sentences for 
                crimes under the law, an unknown number of persons, 
                estimated at several thousand, are detained in 
                violation of international human rights instruments for 
                peacefully expressing their political, religious, or 
                social views.''.
            (2) In addition to the State Department, credible press 
        reports and human rights organizations have documented an 
        intense crackdown on political activists by the Government of 
        the People's Republic of China, involving the harassment, 
        detainment, arrest, and imprisonment of dozens of activists.
            (3) The People's Republic of China, as a member of the 
        United Nations, is expected to abide by the provisions of the 
        Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
            (4) The People's Republic of China is a party to numerous 
        international human rights conventions, including the 
        Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or 
        Degrading Treatment or Punishment, and is a signatory to the 
        International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the 
        Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights.

SEC. 702. FUNDING FOR ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL AT DIPLOMATIC POSTS TO 
              REPORT ON POLITICAL, ECONOMIC, AND HUMAN RIGHTS MATTERS 
              IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
State by this Act, $2,200,000 for fiscal year 2000 and $2,200,000 for 
fiscal year 2001 shall be made available only to support additional 
personnel in the United States Embassies in Beijing and Kathmandu, as 
well as the American consulates in Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenyang, 
Chengdu, and Hong Kong, in order to monitor political and economic 
conditions, including in particular respect for internationally 
recognized human rights, in the People's Republic of China.

SEC. 703. PRISONER INFORMATION REGISTRY FOR THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF 
              CHINA.

    (a) Requirement.--The Secretary of State shall establish and 
maintain a registry which shall, to the extent practicable, provide 
information on all political prisoners, prisoners of conscience, and 
prisoners of faith in the People's Republic of China. The registry 
shall be known as the ``Prisoner Information Registry for the People's 
Republic of China''.
    (b) Information in Registry.--The registry required by subsection 
(a) shall include information on the charges, judicial processes, 
administrative actions, uses of forced labor, incidents of torture, 
lengths of imprisonment, physical and health conditions, and other 
matters associated with the incarceration of prisoners in the People's 
Republic of China referred to in that subsection.
    (c) Availability of Funds.--The Secretary may make funds available 
to nongovernmental organizations currently engaged in monitoring 
activities regarding political prisoners in the People's Republic of 
China in order to assist in the establishment and maintenance of the 
registry required by subsection (a).

SEC. 704. REPORT REGARDING ESTABLISHMENT OF ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY 
              AND COOPERATION IN ASIA.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report assessing the feasibility and utility of 
establishing an Organization for Security and Cooperation in Asia which 
would be modeled after the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe.

SEC. 705. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING ORGAN HARVESTING AND 
              TRANSPLANTING IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Government of the People's Republic of China should 
        stop the practice of harvesting and transplanting organs for 
        profit from prisoners that it executes;
            (2) the Government of the People's Republic of China should 
        be strongly condemned for such organ harvesting and 
        transplanting practice;
            (3) the President should bar from entry into the United 
        States any and all officials of the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China known to be directly involved in such organ 
        harvesting and transplanting practice;
            (4) individuals subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
        States who are determined to be participating in or otherwise 
        facilitating the sale of organs harvested should be prosecuted 
        to the fullest possible extent of the law; and
            (5) the appropriate officials in the United States should 
        interview individuals, including doctors, who may have 
        knowledge of such organ harvesting and transplanting practice.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 721. DENIAL OF ENTRY INTO UNITED STATES OF FOREIGN NATIONALS 
              ENGAGED IN ESTABLISHMENT OR ENFORCEMENT OF FORCED 
              ABORTION OR STERILIZATION POLICY.

    (a) Denial of Entry.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
the Secretary of State may not issue any visa to, and the Attorney 
General may not admit to the United States, any foreign national whom 
the Secretary finds, based on credible and specific information, to 
have been directly involved in the establishment or enforcement of 
population control policies forcing a woman to undergo an abortion 
against her free choice or forcing a man or woman to undergo 
sterilization against his or her free choice.
    (b) Exceptions.--The prohibitions in subsection (a) shall not apply 
in the case of a foreign national who is a head of state, head of 
government, or cabinet level minister.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive the prohibitions in subsection 
(a) with respect to a foreign national if the President--
            (1) determines that it is important to the national 
        interest of the United States to do so; and
            (2) provides written notification to the appropriate 
        congressional committees containing a justification for the 
        waiver.

SEC. 722. SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON UNITED STATES SUPPORT FOR MEMBERSHIP OR 
              PARTICIPATION OF TAIWAN IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and every 6 months thereafter, the Secretary of 
State shall submit to Congress a report on the status of efforts by the 
United States Government to support--
            (1) the membership of Taiwan in international organizations 
        that do not require statehood as a prerequisite to such 
        membership; and
            (2) the appropriate level of participation by Taiwan in 
        international organizations that may require statehood as a 
        prerequisite to full membership.
    (b) Report Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) set forth a comprehensive list of the international 
        organizations in which the United States Government supports 
        the membership or participation of Taiwan;
            (2) describe in detail the efforts of the United States 
        Government to achieve the membership or participation of Taiwan 
        in each organization listed; and
            (3) identify the obstacles to the membership or 
        participation of Taiwan in each organization listed, including 
        a list of any governments that do not support the membership or 
        participation of Taiwan in each such organization.

SEC. 723. CONGRESSIONAL POLICY REGARDING UNITED NATIONS GENERAL 
              ASSEMBLY RESOLUTION ES-10/6.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In an emergency special session the United Nations 
        General Assembly voted on February 9, 1999, to adopt Resolution 
        ES-10/6, entitled ``Illegal Israeli Actions in Occupied East 
        Jerusalem And The Rest Of The Occupied Palestinian Territory'', 
        to convene for the first time in 50 years the parties to the 
        Fourth Geneva Convention for the Protection of Civilians in 
        Time of War.
            (2) That resolution unfairly places full blame for the 
        deterioration of the peace process in the Middle East on Israel 
        and dangerously politicizes the Geneva Convention, which was 
        established to address critical humanitarian crises.
            (3) The adoption of that resolution is intended to prejudge 
        direct negotiations in the peace process in the Middle East, 
        put additional and undue pressure on Israel to influence the 
        results of such negotiations, and single out Israel for 
        unprecedented enforcement proceedings which have never been 
        invoked, even against governments with records of massive 
        violations of the Geneva Convention.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--Congress--
            (1) commends the Department of State for the vote of the 
        United States against United Nations General Assembly 
        Resolution ES-10/6, thereby affirming that the text of the 
        resolution politicizes the Fourth Geneva Convention, which is 
        primarily humanitarian in nature; and
            (2) urges the Department of State to continue its efforts 
        against convening the conference specified in the resolution.

SEC. 724. WAIVER OF CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS REGARDING THE PALESTINE 
              LIBERATION ORGANIZATION.

    (a) Authority to Waive.--The President may waive any prohibition 
set forth in section 1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (Public Law 100-204; 101 Stat. 1407; 22 
U.S.C. 5202) if the President determines and so certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) it is in the national interest of the United States to 
        do so; and
            (2) after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither 
        the Palestine Liberation Organization, the Palestinian 
        Authority, the Palestinian Legislative Council, nor any 
        Palestinian governing body with jurisdiction over territories 
        controlled by the Palestinian Authority has made a declaration 
        of statehood outside the framework of negotiations with the 
        State Israel.
    (b) Period of Applicability of Waiver.--Any waiver under subsection 
(a) shall be effective for not more than 6 months at a time.

SEC. 725. UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING JERUSALEM AS THE CAPITAL OF 
              ISRAEL.

    (a) Construction of United States Embassy in Jerusalem.--Of the 
amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 101(a)(3) of this Act 
for ``Security and Maintenance of United States Missions'', $50,000,000 
for the fiscal year 2000 and $50,000,000 for the fiscal year 2001 may 
be available for the construction of a United States embassy in 
Jerusalem, Israel.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds for Consulate in Jerusalem.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act should be obligated 
or expended for the operation of a United States consulate or 
diplomatic facility in Jerusalem unless such consulate or diplomatic 
facility is under the supervision of the United States Ambassador to 
Israel.
    (c) Limitation on Use of Funds for Certain Publications.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be obligated or 
expended for the publication of any official government document which 
lists countries and their capital cities unless the document identifies 
Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
    (d) Record of Place of Birth as Israel for Passport Purposes.--For 
purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or 
issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of 
Jerusalem, the Secretary of State shall, upon the request of the 
citizen, record the place of birth as Israel.

SEC. 726. UNITED STATES POLICY WITH RESPECT TO NIGERIA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) A stable and democratic Nigeria is important to the 
        interests of the United States, the West African region, and 
        the international community.
            (2) Millions of Nigerians participated in four rounds of 
        multiparty elections as part of a transition program that will 
        culminate in the inauguration of a civilian president, members 
        of the National Assembly, governors, and local leaders on May 
        29, 1999. Although turnout in each of the four rounds was lower 
        than expected, a clear majority of Nigerians demonstrated their 
        support for a swift and orderly transition to democratic 
        civilian rule through participation in the elections or through 
        other means.
            (3) Nevertheless, continued rule by successive military 
        regimes in Nigeria has harmed the lives of the people of 
        Nigeria, undermined confidence in the Nigerian economy, damaged 
        relations between Nigeria and the United States, and threatened 
        the political and economic stability of West Africa.
            (4) Although the current military regime, under the 
        leadership of General Abdusalami Abubakar, has made significant 
        progress in liberalizing the political environment in Nigeria, 
        including increased respect for freedom of assembly, 
        expression, and association, numerous decrees are still in 
        force that suspend the constitutional protection of fundamental 
        human rights, allow indefinite detention without charge, and 
        revoke the jurisdiction of civilian courts over executive 
        actions.
            (5) Despite the optimism expressed by many observers about 
        the progress that has been made in Nigeria, the country's 
        recent history raises serious questions about the potential 
        success of the transition program. In particular, events in the 
        Niger Delta in early 1999 underscore the critical need for 
        ongoing monitoring of the situation and indicate that a return 
        by the Government of Nigeria to repressive methods remains a 
        possibility.
    (b) Declaration of Policy.--Congress declares that the United 
States--
            (1) supports a timely, effective, and sustainable 
        transition to democratic, civilian government in Nigeria; and
            (2) encourages the incoming civilian government in Nigeria 
        to make the political, economic, and legal reforms necessary to 
        ensure the rule of law and respect for human rights in Nigeria, 
        including establishing effective democratic institutions, 
        integrating the military into democratic society, and creating 
        mechanisms for transparency and accountability.

SEC. 727. PARTIAL LIQUIDATION OF BLOCKED LIBYAN ASSETS.

    (a) Liquidation of Certain Blocked Libyan Assets.--The President 
shall vest and liquidate so much of blocked Libyan assets, ordered 
pursuant to Executive Order No. 12544 (January 8, 1986), as is 
necessary to pay for the reasonable costs of travel to and from The 
Hague, Netherlands, by immediate family members of United States 
citizens who were victims of the crash of Pan American flight 103 in 
1988 and wish to attend the trial of those individuals suspected of 
terrorist acts causing the crash.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) Blocked libyan assets.--The term ``blocked Libyan 
        assets'' refers to property and interests of the Government of 
        Libya, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities 
        and the Bank of Libya, blocked pursuant to Executive Order No. 
        12544 (January 8, 1986).
            (2) Immediate family members.--The term ``immediate family 
        member'' means parents, siblings, children, spouse, or a person 
        who stood in loco parentis or to whom he or she stood in loco 
        parentis, of a crash victim.

SEC. 728. SUPPORT FOR REFUGEES FROM RUSSIA WHO CHOOSE TO RESETTLE IN 
              ISRAEL.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Russian Jewish community is the third largest 
        Jewish community in the world.
            (2) Anti-Semitic rhetoric from members of the Duma of the 
        Russian Federation has increased during the past year.
            (3) The Duma failed to pass a resolution condemning the 
        anti-Semitic statements made by Russian lawmakers on March 19, 
        1999.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should support members of Russia's 
        Jewish community; and
            (2) the United States should continue to provide assistance 
        to Russian Jewish refugees resettling in Israel.

SEC. 729. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING EXTRADITION OF LT. GENERAL IGOR 
              GIORGADZE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On Tuesday, August 29, 1995, President Eduard 
        Shevardnadze of Georgia was the victim of an attempted 
        assassination plot as he was departing his offices in the 
        Georgian Parliament building to attend the signing ceremony for 
        a new Georgian constitution.
            (2) Former Chief of the Georgian National Security Service, 
        Lt. General Igor Giorgadze, has been implicated in organizing 
        the August 29, 1995 car bomb attack on President Shevardnadze, 
        and allegedly fled from the Varziani air base, one of Russia's 
        four military bases in Georgia at that time, and the same 
        Russian base on which three Georgia aircraft SU 25's were 
        sabotaged, preventing them from performing fighter escort duty 
        for President Shevardnadze's aircraft.
            (3) Lt. General Igor Giorgadze has subsequently been seen 
        walking freely on the streets of Moscow as well as living and 
        utilizing facilities of the Government of Russia.
            (4) Interpol is conducting a search for Lt. General Igor 
        Giorgadze for his role in the assassination attempt against 
        President Shevardnadze.
            (5) In the aftermath of the attack on President 
        Shevardnadze, and regularly since that time, the Government of 
        Georgia has made repeated requests for the extradition of Lt. 
        General Igor Giorgadze to Tbilisi, Georgia.
            (6) The Russian Interior Ministry has claimed that it is 
        unable to locate Giorgadze.
            (7) The Georgian Security and Interior Ministries on 
        repeated occasions have provided to the Russian Interior 
        Ministry--
                    (A) the exact locations in Russia where Giorgadze 
                could be found, including the exact location in Moscow 
                where Giorgadze's family lived;
                    (B) the exact location where Giorgadze himself 
                stayed outside of Moscow in a dacha of the Russian 
                Ministry of Defense;
                    (C) people he associates with;
                    (D) apartments he visits; and
                    (E) the places, including restaurants, markets, and 
                companies, he frequents.
            (8) Russian newspapers regularly carry interviews with 
        Giorgadze in which Giorgadze calls for a change in regime in 
        Tbilisi.
            (9) Giorgadze is actively engaged in a propaganda campaign 
        against President Shevardnadze and the democratic forces in 
        Georgia, with the assistance of his father who is the Communist 
        Party chief in Georgia.
            (10) Giorgadze continues to organize and plan attempts on 
        the life of President Shevardnadze.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
President and other senior United States Government officials should 
raise at each bilateral meeting between officials of the United States 
Government and officials of the Russian Federation the issue of the 
extradition of Lt. General Igor Giorgadze to Georgia.

SEC. 730. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE USE OF CHILDREN AS SOLDIERS OR OTHER 
              COMBATANTS IN FOREIGN ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) There are at least 300,000 children who are involved in 
        armed conflict in at least 25 countries around the world. This 
        is an escalating international humanitarian crisis which must 
        be addressed promptly.
            (2) Children are uniquely vulnerable to military 
        recruitment because of their emotional and physical immaturity, 
        are easily manipulated, and can be drawn into violence that 
        they are too young to resist or understand.
            (3) Children are most likely to become child soldiers if 
        they are orphans, refugees, poor, separated from their 
        families, displaced from their homes, living in a combat zone, 
        or have limited access to education.
            (4) Child soldiers, besides being exposed to the normal 
        hazards of combat, are also afflicted with other injuries due 
        to their lives in the military. Young children may have 
        sexually related illnesses, suffer from malnutrition, have 
        deformed backs and shoulders which are the result of carrying 
        loads too heavy for them, as well as respiratory and skin 
        infections.
            (5) One of the most egregious examples of the use of child 
        soldiers is the abduction thousands of children, some as young 
        as 8 years of age, by the Lord's Resistance Army (in this 
        section referred to as the ``LRA") in northern Uganda.
            (6) The Department of State's Country Reports on Human 
        Rights Practices For 1999 reports that in Uganda the LRA 
        abducted children ``to be guerillas and tortured them by 
        beating them, raping them, forcing them to march until 
        collapse, and denying them adequate food, water, or shelter''.
            (7) Children who manage to escape from LRA captivity have 
        little access to trauma care and rehabilitation programs, and 
        many find their families displaced, missing, dead, or fearful 
        of having their children return home.
            (8) A large number of children have participated and been 
        killed in the armed conflict in Sri Lanka, and the use of 
        children as soldiers has led to a breakdown in law and order in 
        Sierra Leone.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--
            (1) Condemnation.--Congress hereby joins the international 
        community in condemning the use of children as soldiers and 
        other combatants by governmental and non-governmental armed 
        forces.
            (2) Further sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress 
        that the Secretary of State should--
                    (A) study the issue of the rehabilitation of former 
                child soldiers, the manner in which their suffering can 
                be alleviated, and the positive role that the United 
                States can play in such an effort; and
                    (B) submit a report to Congress on the issue of 
                rehabilitation of child soldiers and their families.

SEC. 731. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.

    (a) Section 1422(b)(3)(B) of the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
Restructuring Act (as contained in division G of Public Law 105-277; 
112 Stat. 2681-792) is amended by striking ``divisionAct'' and 
inserting ``division''.
    (b) Section 1002(a) of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring 
Act (as contained in division G of Public Law 105-277; 112 Stat. 2681-
762) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
    (c) The table of contents of division G of Public Law 105-277 (112 
Stat. 2681-762) is amended by striking ``division__'' and inserting 
``division g''.

SEC. 732. REPORTS WITH RESPECT TO A REFERENDUM ON WESTERN SAHARA.

    (a) Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than each of the dates specified 
        in paragraph (2), the Secretary of State shall submit a report 
        to the appropriate congressional committees describing specific 
        steps being taken by the Government of Morocco and by the 
        Popular Front for the Liberation of Saguia el-Hamra and Rio de 
        Oro (POLISARIO) to ensure that a free, fair, and transparent 
        referendum in which the people of the Western Sahara will 
        choose between independence and integration with Morocco will 
        be held by July 2000.
            (2) Deadlines for submission of reports.--The dates 
        referred to in paragraph (1) are January 1, 2000, and June 1, 
        2000.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report shall include--
            (1) a description of preparations for the referendum, 
        including the extent to which free access to the territory for 
        independent international organizations, including election 
        observers and international media, will be guaranteed;
            (2) a description of current efforts by the Department of 
        State to ensure that a referendum will be held by July 2000;
            (3) an assessment of the likelihood that the July 2000 date 
        will be met;
            (4) a description of obstacles, if any, to the voter-
        registration process and other preparations for the referendum, 
        and efforts being made by the parties and the United States 
        Government to overcome those obstacles; and
            (5) an assessment of progress being made in the 
        repatriation process.

SEC. 733. SELF-DETERMINATION IN EAST TIMOR

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) On May 5, 1999, the Governments of Indonesia and 
        Portugal signed an agreement that provides for an August 8, 
        1999 ballot organized by the United Nations on East Timor's 
        political status.
            (2) On June 22, 1999, the ballot was rescheduled for August 
        21 or August 22 due to concerns that the conditions necessary 
        for a free and fair vote could not be established prior to 
        August 8.
            (3) On January 27, 1999, President Habibie expressed a 
        willingness to consider independence for East Timor if a 
        majority of the East Timorese reject autonomy in the August 
        ballot.
            (4) Under the May 5th agreement the Government of Indonesia 
        is responsible for ensuring that the August ballot is carried 
        out in a fair and peaceful way in an atmosphere free of 
        intimidation, violence or interference.
            (5) The inclusion of anti-independence militia members in 
        Indonesian forces responsible for establishing security in East 
        Timor violates the May 5th agreement which states that the 
        absolute neutrality of the military and police is essential for 
        holding a free and fair ballot.
            (6) The arming of anti-independence militias by members of 
        the Indonesian military for the purpose of sabotaging the 
        August ballot has resulted in hundreds of civilians killed, 
        injured or disappeared in separate attacks by these militias 
        who continue to act without restraint.
            (7) The United Nations Secretary General has received 
        credible reports of political violence, including intimidation 
        and killings, by armed anti-independence militias against 
        unarmed pro-independence civilians.
            (8) There have been killings of opponents of independence, 
        including civilians and militia members.
            (9) The killings in East Timor should be fully investigated 
        and the individuals responsible brought to justice.
            (10) Access to East Timor by international human rights 
        monitors and humanitarian organizations is limited, and members 
        of the press have been threatened.
            (11) The presence of members of the United Nations 
        Assistance Mission in East Timor has already resulted in an 
        improved security environment in the East Timorese capital of 
        Dili.
            (12) A robust international observer mission and police 
        force throughout East Timor is critical to creating a stable 
        and secure environment necessary for a free and fair ballot.
            (13) The Administration should be commended for its support 
        for the United Nations Assistance Mission in East Timor which 
        will provide monitoring and support for the ballot and include 
        international civilian police, military liaison officers and 
        election monitors.
    (b) Policy.--(1) The President, Secretary of State, Secretary of 
Defense, and the Secretary of the Treasury (acting through the United 
States executive directors to international financial institutions) 
should immediately intensify their efforts to prevail upon the 
Indonesian Government and military to--
            (A) disarm and disband anti-independence militias;
            (B) grant full access to East Timor by international human 
        rights monitors, humanitarian organizations, and the press;
            (C) allow Timorese who have been living in exile to return 
        to East Timor to participate in the ballot.
    (2) The President should submit a report to the Congress not later 
than 21 days after passage of this Act, containing a description of the 
Administration's efforts and his assessment of steps taken by the 
Indonesian Government and military to ensure a stable and secure 
environment in East Timor, including those steps described in paragraph 
(1).

SEC. 734. PROHIBITION ON THE RETURN OF VETERANS MEMORIAL OBJECTS TO 
              FOREIGN NATIONS WITHOUT SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION IN LAW.

    (a) Prohibition.--Notwithstanding section 2572 of title 10, United 
States Code, or any other provision of law, the President may not 
transfer a veterans memorial object to a foreign country or entity 
controlled by a foreign government, or otherwise transfer or convey 
such object to any person or entity for purposes of the ultimate 
transfer or conveyance of such object to a foreign country or entity 
controlled by a foreign government, unless specifically authorized by 
law.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Entity controlled by a foreign government.--The term 
        ``entity controlled by a foreign government'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 2536(c)(1) of title 10, United 
        States Code.
            (2) Veterans memorial object.--The term ``veterans memorial 
        object'' means any object, including a physical structure or 
        portion thereof, that--
                    (A) is located at a cemetery of the National 
                Cemetery System, war memorial, or military installation 
                in the United States;
                    (B) is dedicated to, or otherwise memorializes, the 
                death in combat or combat-related duties of members of 
                the United States Armed Forces; and
                    (C) was brought to the United States from abroad as 
                a memorial of combat abroad.

SEC. 735. SUPPORT FOR THE PEACE PROCESS IN SUDAN.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the civil war in Sudan has continued unabated for 16 
        years and raged intermittently for 40 years;
            (2) an estimated 1,900,000 Sudanese people have died as a 
        result of war-related causes and famine;
            (3) an estimated 4,000,000 people are currently in need of 
        emergency food assistance in different areas of Sudan;
            (4) approximately 4,000,000 people are internally displaced 
        in Sudan;
            (5) the continuation of war has led to human rights abuses 
        by all parties to the conflict, including the killing of 
        civilians, slavery, rape, and torture on the part of government 
        forces and paramilitary forces; and
            (6) it is in the interest of all the people of Sudan for 
        the parties to the conflict to seek a negotiated settlement of 
        hostilities and the establishment of a lasting peace in Sudan.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--(1) Congress--
            (A) acknowledges the renewed vigor in facilitating and 
        assisting the Inter-Governmental Authority for Development 
        (IGAD) peace process in Sudan; and
            (B) urges continued and sustained engagement by the 
        Department of State in the IGAD peace process and the IGAD 
        Partners' Forum.
    (2) It is the sense of Congress that the President should--
            (A) appoint a special envoy--
                    (i) to serve as a point of contact for the Inter-
                Governmental Authority for Development peace process;
                    (ii) to coordinate with the Inter-Governmental 
                Authority for Development Partners Forum as the Forum 
                works to support the peace process in Sudan; and
                    (iii) to coordinate United States humanitarian 
                assistance to southern Sudan.
            (B) provide increased financial and technical support for 
        the IGAD Peace Process and especially the IGAD Secretariat in 
        Nairobi, Kenya; and
            (C) instruct the United States Permanent Representative to 
        the United Nations to call on the United Nations Secretary 
        General to consider the appointment of a special envoy for 
        Sudan.

SEC. 736. EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING THE TREATMENT 
              OF RELIGIOUS MINORITIES IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN, 
              AND PARTICULARLY THE RECENT ARRESTS OF MEMBERS OF THAT 
              COUNTRY'S JEWISH COMMUNITY.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate finds that--
            (1) ten percent of the citizens of the Islamic Republic of 
        Iran are members of religious minority groups;
            (2) according to the State Department and internationally 
        recognized human rights organizations, such as Human Rights 
        Watch and Amnesty International, religious minorities in the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran--including Sunni Muslims, Baha'is, 
        Christians, and Jews--have been the victims of human rights 
        violations solely because of their status as religious 
        minorities;
            (3) the 55th session of the United Nations Commission on 
        Human Rights passed Resolution 1999/13, which expresses the 
        concern of the international community over ``continued 
        discrimination against religious minorities'' in the Islamic 
        Republic of Iran, and calls on that country to moderate its 
        policy on religious minorities until they are ``completely 
        emancipated'';
            (4) more than half the Jews in Iran have been forced to 
        flee that country since the Islamic Revolution of 1979 because 
        of religious persecution, and many of them now reside in the 
        United States;
            (5) the Iranian Jewish community, with a 2,500-year history 
        and currently numbering some 30,000 people, is the oldest 
        Jewish community living in the Diaspora;
            (6) five Jews have been executed by the Iranian government 
        in the past five years without having been tried;
            (7) there has been a noticeable increase recently in anti-
        Semitic propaganda in the government-controlled Iranian press;
            (8) on the eve of the Jewish holiday of Passover 1999, 
        thirteen or more Jews, including community and religious 
        leaders in the city of Shiraz, were arrested by the authorities 
        of the Islamic Republic of Iran; and
            (9) in keeping with its dismal record on providing accused 
        prisoners with due process and fair treatment, the Islamic 
        Republic of Iran failed to charge the detained Jews with any 
        specific crime or allow visitation by relatives of the detained 
        for more than two months.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
United States should--
            (1) continue to work through the United Nations to assure 
        that the Islamic Republic of Iran implements the 
        recommendations of Resolution 1999/13;
            (2) condemn, in the strongest possible terms, the recent 
        arrest of members of Iran's Jewish minority and urge their 
        immediate release;
            (3) urge all nations having relations with the Islamic 
        Republic of Iran to condemn the treatment of religious 
        minorities in Iran and call for the release of all prisoners 
        held on the basis of their religious beliefs; and
            (4) maintain the current United States policy toward the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran unless and until that country 
        moderates its treatment of religious minorities.

SEC. 737. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER PLO COMMITMENTS COMPLIANCE ACT 
              OF 1989.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The PLO Commitments Compliance Act of 1989 (title VIII 
        of Public Law 101-246) requires the President to submit reports 
        to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairman 
        of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate every 180 
        days, on Palestinian compliance with the Geneva commitments of 
        1988, the commitments contained in the letter of September 9, 
        1993 to the Prime Minister of Israel, and the letter of 
        September 9, 1993 to the Foreign Minister of Norway.
            (2) The reporting requirements of the PLO Commitments 
        Compliance Act of 1989 have remained in force from enactment 
        until the present.
            (3) Modification and amendment to the PLO Commitments 
        Compliance Act of 1989, and the expiration of the Middle East 
        Peace Facilitation Act (Public Law 104-107) did not alter the 
        reporting requirements.
            (4) According to the official records of the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate, the last report under the PLO 
        Commitments Compliance Act of 1989 was submitted and received 
        on December 27, 1997.
    (b) Reporting Requirements.--The PLO Commitments Compliance Act of 
1989 is amended --
            (1) in section 804(b), by striking ``In conjunction with 
        each written policy justification required under section 
        604(b)(1) of the Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1995 or 
        every'' and inserting ``Every'';
            (2) in section 804(b)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (9);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (10); and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(11) a statement on the effectiveness of end-use 
        monitoring of international or United States aid being provided 
        to the Palestinian Authority, Palestinian Liberation 
        Organization, or the Palestinian Legislative Council, or to any 
        other agent or instrumentality of the Palestinian Authority, on 
        Palestinian efforts to comply with international accounting 
        standards and on enforcement of anti-corruption measures; and
            ``(12) a statement on compliance by the Palestinian 
        Authority with the democratic reforms, with specific details 
        regarding the separation of powers called for between the 
        executive and Legislative Council, the status of legislation 
        passed by the Legislative Council and sent to the executive, 
        the support of the executive for local and municipal elections, 
        the status of freedom of the press, and of the ability of the 
        press to broadcast debate from within the Legislative Council 
        and about the activities of the Legislative Council.''.

SEC. 738. REPORT ON TERRORIST ACTIVITY IN WHICH UNITED STATES CITIZENS 
              WERE KILLED AND RELATED MATTERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this legislation and every 6 months thereafter, the 
Secretary of State shall prepare and submit a report, with a classified 
annex as necessary, to the appropriate congressional committees 
regarding terrorist attacks in Israel, in territory administered by 
Israel, and in territory administered by the Palestinian Authority. The 
report shall contain the following information:
            (1) A list of formal commitments the Palestinian Authority 
        has made to combat terrorism.
            (2) A list of terrorist attacks, occurring between 
        September 13, 1993 and the date of the report, against United 
        States citizens in Israel, in territory administered by Israel, 
        or in territory administered by the Palestinian Authority, 
        including--
                    (A) a list of all citizens of the United States 
                killed or injured in such attacks;
                    (B) the date of each attack, the total number of 
                people killed or injured in each attack;
                    (C) the person or group claiming responsibility for 
                the attack and where such person or group has found 
                refuge or support;
                    (D) a list of suspects implicated in each attack 
                and the nationality of each suspect, including 
                information on--
                            (i) which suspects are in the custody of 
                        the Palestinian Authority and which suspects 
                        are in the custody of Israel;
                            (ii) which suspects are still at large in 
                        areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority 
                        or Israel; and
                            (iii) the whereabouts (or suspected 
                        whereabouts) of suspects implicated in each 
                        attack.
            (3) Of the suspects implicated in the attacks described in 
        paragraph (2) and detained by Palestinian or Israeli 
        authorities, information on--
                    (A) the date each suspect was incarcerated;
                    (B) whether any suspects have been released, the 
                date of such release, and whether any released suspect 
                was implicated in subsequent acts of terrorism; and
                    (C) the status of each case pending against a 
                suspect, including information on whether the suspect 
                has been indicted, prosecuted, or convicted by the 
                Palestinian Authority or Israel.
            (4) The policy of the Department of State with respect to 
        offering rewards for information on terrorist suspects, 
        including any information on whether a reward has been posted 
        for suspects involved in terrorist attacks listed in the 
        report.
            (5) A list of each request by the United States for 
        assistance in investigating terrorist attacks listed in the 
        report, a list of each request by the United States for the 
        transfer of terrorist suspects from the Palestinian Authority 
        and Israel since September 13, 1993 and the response to each 
        request from the Palestinian Authority and Israel.
            (6) A description of efforts made by United States 
        officials since September 13, 1993 to bring to justice 
        perpetrators of terrorist acts against United States citizens 
        as listed in the report.
            (7) A list of any terrorist suspects in these cases who are 
        members of Palestinian police or security forces, the Palestine 
        Liberation Organization, or any Palestinian governing body.
            (8) A list of all United States citizens killed or injured 
        in terrorist attacks in Israel or in territory administered by 
        Israel between 1950 and September 13, 1993, to include in each 
        case, where such information is available, any stated claim of 
        responsibility and the resolution or disposition of each case, 
        including information as to the whereabouts of the perpetrators 
        of the acts: Provided, That this list shall be submitted only 
        once with the initial report required under this section, 
        unless additional relevant information on these cases becomes 
        available.
            (9) The amount of compensation the United States has 
        requested for United States citizens, or their families, 
        injured or killed in attacks by terrorists in Israel, in 
        territory administered by Israel, or in territory administered 
        by the Palestinian Authority since September 13, 1993, and, if 
        no compensation has been requested, an explanation of why such 
        requests have not been made.
    (b) Consultation with Other Departments.--The Secretary of State 
shall, in preparing the report required by this section, consult and 
coordinate with all other Government officials who have information 
necessary to complete the report. Nothing contained in this section 
shall require the disclosure, on a classified or unclassified basis, of 
information that would jeopardize sensitive sources and methods or 
other vital national security interests or jeopardize ongoing criminal 
investigations or proceedings.
    (c) Initial Report.--Except as provided in subsection (a)(8), the 
initial report filed under this section shall cover the period between 
September 13, 1993 and the date of the report.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--For purposes of this 
section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 739. SENSE OF SENATE REGARDING CHILD LABOR.

    (a) Findings.--The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The International Labor Organization (in this 
        resolution referred to as the ``ILO'') estimates that at least 
        250,000,000 children under the age of 15 are working around the 
        world, many of them in dangerous jobs that prevent them from 
        pursuing an education and damage their physical and moral well-
        being.
            (2) Children are the most vulnerable element of society and 
        are often abused physically and mentally in the work place.
            (3) Making children work endangers their education, health, 
        and normal development.
            (4) UNICEF estimates that by the year 2000, over 
        1,000,000,000 adults will be unable to read or write on even a 
        basic level because they had to work as children and were not 
        educated.
            (5) Nearly 41 percent of the children in Africa, 22 percent 
        in Asia, and 17 percent in Latin America go to work without 
        ever having seen the inside of a classroom.
            (6) The President, in his State of the Union address, 
        called abusive child labor ``the most intolerable labor 
        practice of all,'' and called upon other countries to join in 
        the fight against abusive and exploitative child labor.
            (7) The Department of Labor has conducted 5 detailed 
        studies that document the growing trend of child labor in the 
        global economy, including a study that shows children as young 
        as 4 are making assorted products that are traded in the global 
        marketplace.
            (8) The prevalence of child labor in many developing 
        countries is rooted in widespread poverty that is attributable 
        to unemployment and underemployment among adults, low living 
        standards, and insufficient education and training 
        opportunities among adult workers and children.
            (9) The ILO has unanimously reported a new Convention on 
        the Worst Forms of Child Labor.
            (10) The United States negotiators played a leading role in 
        the negotiations leading up to the successful conclusion of the 
        new ILO Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labor.
            (11) On September 23, 1993, the United States Senate 
        unanimously adopted a resolution stating its opposition to the 
        importation of products made by abusive and exploitative child 
        labor and the exploitation of children for commercial gain.
    (b) Sense of the Senate.--It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) abusive and exploitative child labor should not be 
        tolerated anywhere it occurs;
            (2) ILO member States should be commended for their efforts 
        in negotiating this historic convention;
            (3) it should be the policy of the United States to 
        continue to work with all foreign nations and international 
        organizations to promote an end to abusive and exploitative 
        child labor; and
            (4) the Senate looks forward to the prompt submission by 
        the President of the new ILO Convention on the Worst Forms of 
        Child Labor.

SEC. 740. REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON WORLDWIDE CIRCULATION OF SMALL ARMS 
              AND LIGHT WEAPONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In numerous regional conflicts, the presence of vast 
        numbers of small arms and light weapons has prolonged and 
        exacerbated conflict and frustrated attempts by the 
        international community to secure lasting peace. The sheer 
        volume of available weaponry has been a major factor in the 
        devastation witnessed in recent conflicts in Angola, Cambodia, 
        Liberia, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, 
        and Afghanistan, among others, and has contributed to the 
        violence endemic to narcotrafficking in Colombia and Mexico.
            (2) Increased access by terrorists, guerrilla groups, 
        criminals, and others to small arms and light weapons poses a 
        real threat to United States participants in peacekeeping 
        operations and United States forces based overseas, as well as 
        to United States citizens traveling overseas.
            (3) In accordance with the reorganization of the Department 
        of State made by the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring 
        Act of 1998, effective March 28, 1999, all functions and 
        authorities of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency were 
        transferred to the Secretary of State. One of the stated goals 
        of that Act is to integrate the Arms Control and Disarmament 
        Agency into the Department of State ``to give new emphasis to a 
        broad range of efforts to curb proliferation of dangerous 
        weapons and delivery systems''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report containing--
            (1) an assessment of whether the export of small arms poses 
        any proliferation problems including--
                    (A) estimates of the numbers and sources of licit 
                and illicit small arms and light arms in circulation 
                and their origins;
                    (B) the challenges associated with monitoring small 
                arms; and
                    (C) the political, economic, and security 
                dimensions of this issue, and the threats posed, if 
                any, by these weapons to United States interests, 
                including national security interests;
            (2) an assessment of whether the export of small arms of 
        the type sold commercially in the United States should be 
        considered a foreign policy or proliferation issue;
            (3) a description of current Department of State activities 
        to monitor and, to the extent possible ensure adequate control 
        of, both the licit and illicit manufacture, transfer, and 
        proliferation of small arms and light weapons, including 
        efforts to survey and assess this matter with respect to Africa 
        and to survey and assess the scope and scale of the issue, 
        including stockpile security and destruction of excess 
        inventory, in NATO and Partnership for Peace countries;
            (4) a description of the impact of the reorganization of 
        the Department of State made by the Foreign Affairs Reform and 
        Restructuring Act of 1998 on the transfer of functions relating 
        to monitoring, licensing, analysis, and policy on small arms 
        and light weapons, including--
                    (A) the integration of and the functions relating 
                to small arms and light weapons of the United States 
                Arms Control and Disarmament Agency with those of the 
                Department of State;
                    (B) the functions of the Bureau of Arms Control, 
                the Bureau of Nonproliferation, the Bureau of 
                Political-Military Affairs, the Bureau of International 
                Narcotics and Law Enforcement, regional bureaus, and 
                any other relevant bureau or office of the Department 
                of State, including the allocation of personnel and 
                funds, as they pertain to small arms and light weapons;
                    (C) the functions of the regional bureaus of the 
                Department of State in providing information and policy 
                coordination in bilateral and multilateral settings on 
                small arms and light weapons;
                    (D) the functions of the Under Secretary of State 
                for Arms Control and International Security pertaining 
                to small arms and light weapons; and
                    (E) the functions of the scientific and policy 
                advisory board on arms control, nonproliferation, and 
                disarmament pertaining to small arms and light weapons; 
                and
            (5) an assessment of whether foreign governments are 
        enforcing their own laws concerning small arms and light 
        weapons import and sale, including commitments under the Inter-
        American Convention Against the Illicit Manufacturing of and 
        Trafficking in Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives, and Other 
        Related Materials or other relevant international agreements.

             Subtitle C--United States Entry-Exit Controls

SEC. 751. AMENDMENT OF THE ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION REFORM AND IMMIGRANT 
              RESPONSIBILITY ACT OF 1996.

    (a) In General.--Section 110(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform 
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1221 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) System.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 
        2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney 
        General shall develop an automated entry and exit control 
        system that will--
                    ``(A) collect a record of departure for every alien 
                departing the United States and match the record of 
                departure with the record of the alien's arrival in the 
                United States; and
                    ``(B) enable the Attorney General to identify, 
                through online searching procedures, lawfully admitted 
                nonimmigrants who remain in the United States beyond 
                the period authorized by the Attorney General.
            ``(2) Exception.--The system under paragraph (1) shall not 
        collect a record of arrival or departure--
                    ``(A) at a land border or seaport of the United 
                States for any alien; or
                    ``(B) for any alien for whom the documentary 
                requirements in section 212(a)(7)(B) of the Immigration 
                and Nationality Act have been waived by the Attorney 
                General and the Secretary of State under section 
                212(d)(4)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the enactment of the Illegal Immigration 
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (division C of Public 
Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-546).

SEC. 752. REPORT ON AUTOMATED ENTRY-EXIT CONTROL SYSTEM.

    (a) Requirement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit a report to the 
Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on the feasibility of developing and implementing an 
automated entry-exit control system that would collect a record of 
departure for every alien departing the United States and match the 
record of departure with the record of the alien's arrival in the 
United States, including departures and arrivals at the land borders 
and seaports of the United States.
    (b) Contents of Report.--Such report shall--
            (1) assess the costs and feasibility of various means of 
        operating such an automated entry-exit control system, 
        including exploring--
                    (A) how, if the automated entry-exit control system 
                were limited to certain aliens arriving at airports, 
                departure records of those aliens could be collected 
                when they depart through a land border or seaport; and
                    (B) the feasibility of the Attorney General, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of State, negotiating 
                reciprocal agreements with the governments of 
                contiguous countries to collect such information on 
                behalf of the United States and share it in an 
                acceptable automated format;
            (2) consider the various means of developing such a system, 
        including the use of pilot projects if appropriate, and assess 
        which means would be most appropriate in which geographical 
        regions;
            (3) evaluate how such a system could be implemented without 
        increasing border traffic congestion and border crossing delays 
        and, if any such system would increase border crossing delays, 
        evaluate to what extent such congestion or delays would 
        increase; and
            (4) estimate the length of time that would be required for 
        any such system to be developed and implemented.

SEC. 753. ANNUAL REPORTS ON ENTRY-EXIT CONTROL AND USE OF ENTRY-EXIT 
              CONTROL DATA.

    (a) Annual Reports on Implementation of Entry-Exit Control at 
Airports.--Not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year 
until the fiscal year in which the Attorney General certifies to 
Congress that the entry-exit control system required by section 110(a) 
of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 
1996, as amended by section 751 of this Act, has been developed, the 
Attorney General shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives a report that--
            (1) provides an accurate assessment of the status of the 
        development of the entry-exit control system;
            (2) includes a specific schedule for the development of the 
        entry-exit control system that the Attorney General anticipates 
        will be met; and
            (3) includes a detailed estimate of the funding, if any, 
        needed for the development of the entry-exit control system.
    (b) Annual Reports on Visa Overstays Identified Through the Entry-
Exit Control System.--Not later than June 30 of each year, the Attorney 
General shall submit to the Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report that sets forth--
            (1) the number of arrival records of aliens and the number 
        of departure records of aliens that were collected during the 
        preceding fiscal year under the entry-exit control system under 
        section 110(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
        Responsibility Act of 1996, as so amended, with a separate 
        accounting of such numbers by country of nationality;
            (2) the number of departure records of aliens that were 
        successfully matched to records of such aliens' prior arrival 
        in the United States, with a separate accounting of such 
        numbers by country of nationality and by classification as 
        immigrant or nonimmigrant; and
            (3) the number of aliens who arrived as nonimmigrants, or 
        as visitors under the visa waiver program under section 217 of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act, for whom no matching 
        departure record has been obtained through the system, or 
        through other means, as of the end of such aliens' authorized 
        period of stay, with an accounting by country of nationality 
        and approximate date of arrival in the United States.
    (c) Incorporation Into Other Databases.--Information regarding 
aliens who have remained in the United States beyond their authorized 
period of stay that is identified through the system referred to in 
subsection (a) shall be integrated into appropriate databases of the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Department of State, 
including those used at ports-of-entry and at consular offices.

        TITLE VIII--INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND COMMISSIONS

              Subtitle A--Authorizations of Appropriations

SEC. 801. CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        under the heading ``Contributions to International 
        Organizations'' $940,000,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and 
        $940,000,000 for the fiscal year 2001 for the Department of 
        State to carry out the authorities, functions, duties, and 
        responsibilities in the conduct of the foreign affairs of the 
        United States with respect to international organizations and 
        to carry out other authorities in law consistent with such 
        purposes.
            (2) Availability of funds for civil budget of nato.--Of the 
        amounts authorized in paragraph (1), $48,977,000 are authorized 
        in fiscal year 2000 and $48,977,000 in fiscal year 2001 for the 
        United States assessment for the civil budget of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization.
    (b) No Growth Budget.--Of the funds made available under subsection 
(a), $80,000,000 may be made available during each calendar year only 
after the Secretary of State certifies that the United Nations has 
taken no action during the preceding calendar year to increase funding 
for any United Nations program without identifying an offsetting 
decrease during that calendar year elsewhere in the United Nations 
budget of $2,533,000,000, and cause the United Nations to exceed the 
initial 1998-99 United Nations biennium budget adopted in December 
1997.
    (c) Inspector General of the United Nations.--
            (1) Withholding of funds.--Twenty percent of the funds made 
        available in each fiscal year under subsection (a) for the 
        assessed contribution of the United States to the United 
        Nations shall be withheld from obligation and expenditure until 
        a certification is made under paragraph (2).
            (2) Certification.--A certification under this paragraph is 
        a certification by the Secretary of State in the fiscal year 
        concerned that the following conditions are satisfied:
                    (A) Action by the united nations.--The United 
                Nations--
                            (i) has met the requirements of paragraphs 
                        (1) through (6) of section 401(b) of the 
                        Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal 
                        Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 287e note), as 
                        amended by paragraph (3);
                            (ii) has established procedures that 
                        require the Under Secretary General of the 
                        Office of Internal Oversight Services to report 
                        directly to the Secretary General on the 
                        adequacy of the Office's resources to enable 
                        the Office to fulfill its mandate; and
                            (iii) has made available an adequate amount 
                        of funds to the Office for carrying out its 
                        functions.
                    (B) Authority by oios.--The Office of Internal 
                Oversight Services has authority to audit, inspect, or 
                investigate each program, project, or activity funded 
                by the United Nations, and each executive board created 
                under the United Nations has been notified, in writing, 
                of that authority.
            (3) Amendment of the foreign relations authorization act, 
        fiscal years 1994 and 1995.--Section 401(b) of the Foreign 
        Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 is 
        amended--
                    (A) by amending paragraph (6) to read as follows:
            ``(6) the United Nations has procedures in place to ensure 
        that all reports submitted by the Office of Internal Oversight 
        Services are made available to the member states of the United 
        Nations without modification except to the extent necessary to 
        protect the privacy rights of individuals.''; and
                    (B) by striking ``Inspector General'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Office of Internal Oversight 
                Services''.
    (d) Prohibition on Certain Global Conferences.--None of the funds 
made available under subsection (a) shall be available for any United 
States contribution to pay for any expense related to the holding of 
any United Nations global conference, except for any conference 
scheduled prior to October 1, 1998.
    (e) Prohibition on Funding Other Framework Treaty-Based 
Organizations.--None of the funds made available for the 1998-1999 
biennium budget under subsection (a) for United States contributions to 
the regular budget of the United Nations shall be available for the 
United States proportionate share of any other framework treaty-based 
organization, including the Framework Convention on Global Climate 
Change, the International Seabed Authority, the Desertification 
Convention, and the International Criminal Court.
    (f) Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--In addition to 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated by subsection (a), there 
        are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
        for each of fiscal years 2000 and 2001 to offset adverse 
        fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
            (2) Availability of funds.--Amounts appropriated under this 
        subsection shall be available for obligation and expenditure 
        only to the extent that the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget determines and certifies to Congress that 
        such amounts are necessary due to such fluctuations.
    (g) Refund of Excess Contributions.--The United States shall 
continue to insist that the United Nations and its specialized and 
affiliated agencies shall credit or refund to each member of the agency 
concerned its proportionate share of the amount by which the total 
contributions to the agency exceed the expenditures of the regular 
assessed budgets of these agencies.

SEC. 802. CONTRIBUTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated under the heading ``Contributions for International 
Peacekeeping Activities'' $235,000,000 for the fiscal year 2000 and 
$235,000,000 for the fiscal year 2001 for the Department of State to 
carry out the authorities, functions, duties, and responsibilities in 
the conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States with respect to 
international peacekeeping activities and to carry out other 
authorities in law consistent with such purposes.
    (b) Codification of Required Notice of Proposed United Nations 
Peacekeeping Operations.--
            (1) Codification.--Section 4 of the United Nations 
        Participation Act of 1945 (22 U.S.C. 287b) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking the second 
                sentence; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(e) Consultations and Reports on United Nations Peacekeeping 
Operations.--
            ``(1) Consultations.--Each month the President shall 
        consult with Congress on the status of United Nations 
        peacekeeping operations.
            ``(2) Information to be provided.--In connection with such 
        consultations, the following information shall be provided each 
        month to the designated congressional committees:
                    ``(A) With respect to ongoing United Nations 
                peacekeeping operations, the following:
                            ``(i) A list of all resolutions of the 
                        United Nations Security Council anticipated to 
                        be voted on during such month that would extend 
                        or change the mandate of any United Nations 
                        peacekeeping operation.
                            ``(ii) For each such operation, any changes 
                        in the duration, mandate, and command and 
                        control arrangements that are anticipated as a 
                        result of the adoption of the resolution.
                            ``(iii) An estimate of the total cost to 
                        the United Nations of each such operation for 
                        the period covered by the resolution, and an 
                        estimate of the amount of that cost that will 
                        be assessed to the United States.
                            ``(iv) Any anticipated significant changes 
                        in United States participation in or support 
                        for each such operation during the period 
                        covered by the resolution (including the 
                        provision of facilities, training, 
                        transportation, communication, and logistical 
                        support, but not including intelligence 
                        activities reportable under title V of the 
                        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et 
                        seq.)), and the estimated costs to the United 
                        States of such changes.
                    ``(B) With respect to each new United Nations 
                peacekeeping operation that is anticipated to be 
                authorized by a Security Council resolution during such 
                month, the following information for the period covered 
                by the resolution:
                            ``(i) The anticipated duration, mandate, 
                        and command and control arrangements of such 
                        operation, the planned exit strategy, and the 
                        vital national interest to be served.
                            ``(ii) An estimate of the total cost to the 
                        United Nations of the operation, and an 
                        estimate of the amount of that cost that will 
                        be assessed to the United States.
                            ``(iii) A description of the functions that 
                        would be performed by any United States Armed 
                        Forces participating in or otherwise operating 
                        in support of the operation, an estimate of the 
                        number of members of the Armed Forces that will 
                        participate in or otherwise operate in support 
                        of the operation, and an estimate of the cost 
                        to the United States of such participation or 
                        support.
                            ``(iv) A description of any other United 
                        States assistance to or support for the 
                        operation (including the provision of 
                        facilities, training, transportation, 
                        communication, and logistical support, but not 
                        including intelligence activities reportable 
                        under title V of the National Security Act of 
                        1947 (50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.)), and an estimate 
                        of the cost to the United States of such 
                        assistance or support.
                            ``(v) A reprogramming of funds pursuant to 
                        section 34 of the State Department Basic 
                        Authorities Act of 1956, submitted in 
                        accordance with the procedures set forth in 
                        such section, describing the source of funds 
                        that will be used to pay for the cost of the 
                        new United Nations peacekeeping operation, 
                        provided that such notification shall also be 
                        submitted to the Committee on Appropriations of 
                        the House of Representatives and the Committee 
                        on Appropriations of the Senate.
            ``(3) Form and timing of information.--
                    ``(A) Form.--The President shall submit information 
                under clauses (i) and (iii) of paragraph (2)(A) in 
                writing.
                    ``(B) Timing.--
                            ``(i) Ongoing operations.--The information 
                        required under paragraph (2)(A) for a month 
                        shall be submitted not later than the 10th day 
                        of the month.
                            ``(ii) New operations.--The information 
                        required under paragraph (2)(B) shall be 
                        submitted in writing with respect to each new 
                        United Nations peacekeeping operation not less 
                        than 15 days before the anticipated date of the 
                        vote on the resolution concerned unless the 
                        President determines that exceptional 
                        circumstances prevent compliance with the 
                        requirement to report 15 days in advance. If 
                        the President makes such a determination, the 
                        information required under paragraph (2)(B) 
                        shall be submitted as far in advance of the 
                        vote as is practicable.
            ``(4) New united nations peacekeeping operation defined.--
        As used in paragraph (2), the term `new United Nations 
        peacekeeping operation' includes any existing or otherwise 
        ongoing United Nations peacekeeping operation--
                    ``(A) where the authorized force strength is to be 
                expanded;
                    ``(B) that is to be authorized to operate in a 
                country in which it was not previously authorized to 
                operate; or
                    ``(C) the mandate of which is to be changed so that 
                the operation would be engaged in significant 
                additional or significantly different functions.
            ``(5) Notification and quarterly reports regarding united 
        states assistance.--
                    ``(A) Notification of certain assistance.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The President shall 
                        notify the designated congressional committees 
                        at least 15 days before the United States 
                        provides any assistance to the United Nations 
                        to support peacekeeping operations.
                            ``(ii) Exception.--This subparagraph does 
                        not apply to--
                                    ``(I) assistance having a value of 
                                less than $3,000,000 in the case of 
                                nonreimbursable assistance or less than 
                                $14,000,000 in the case of reimbursable 
                                assistance; or
                                    ``(II) assistance provided under 
                                the emergency drawdown authority of 
                                sections 506(a)(1) and 552(c)(2) of the 
                                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
                                U.S.C. 2318(a)(1) and 2348a(c)(2)).
                    ``(B) Quarterly reports.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The President shall 
                        submit quarterly reports to the designated 
                        congressional committees on all assistance 
                        provided by the United States during the 
                        preceding calendar quarter to the United 
                        Nations to support peacekeeping operations.
                            ``(ii) Matters included.--Each report under 
                        this subparagraph shall describe the assistance 
                        provided for each such operation, listed by 
                        category of assistance.
                            ``(iii) Fourth quarter report.--The report 
                        under this subparagraph for the fourth calendar 
                        quarter of each year shall be submitted as part 
                        of the annual report required by subsection (d) 
                        and shall include cumulative information for 
                        the preceding calendar year.
    ``(f) Designated Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term `designated congressional committees' means the Committee on 
Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the Committee on International Relations and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives.''.
            (2) Conforming repeal.--Subsection (a) of section 407 of 
        the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 
        1995 (Public Law 103-236; 22 U.S.C. 287b note; 108 Stat. 448) 
        is repealed.
    (c) Relationship to Other Notice Requirements.--Section 4 of the 
United Nations Participation Act of 1945, as amended by subsection (b), 
is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Relationship to Other Notification Requirements.--Nothing in 
this section is intended to alter or supersede any notification 
requirement with respect to peacekeeping operations that is established 
under any other provision of law.''.

SEC. 803. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE 
              UNITED NATIONS VOLUNTARY FUND FOR VICTIMS OF TORTURE.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the President $5,000,000 
for each of the fiscal years 2000 and 2001 for payment of contributions 
to the United Nations Voluntary Fund for Victims of Torture.

                 Subtitle B--United Nations Activities

SEC. 811. UNITED NATIONS POLICY ON ISRAEL AND THE PALESTINIANS.

    (a) Congressional Statement.--It shall be the policy of the United 
States to promote an end to the persistent inequity experienced by 
Israel in the United Nations whereby Israel is the only longstanding 
member of the organization to be denied acceptance into any of the 
United Nations regional blocs.
    (b) Policy on Abolition of Certain United Nations Groups.--It shall 
be the policy of the United States to seek the abolition of certain 
United Nations groups the existence of which is inimical to the ongoing 
Middle East peace process, those groups being the Special Committee to 
Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the 
Palestinian People and other Arabs of the Occupied Territories; the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People; the Division for the Palestinian Rights; and the Division on 
Public Information on the Question of Palestine.
    (c) Annual Reports.--On January 15 of each year, the Secretary of 
State shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees 
(in classified or unclassified form as appropriate) on--
            (1) actions taken by representatives of the United States 
        to encourage the nations of the Western Europe and Others Group 
        (WEOG) to accept Israel into their regional bloc;
            (2) other measures being undertaken, and which will be 
        undertaken, to ensure and promote Israel's full and equal 
        participation in the United Nations; and
            (3) steps taken by the United States under subsection (b) 
        to secure abolition by the United Nations of groups described 
        in that subsection.
    (d) Annual Consultation.--At the time of the submission of each 
annual report under subsection (c), the Secretary of State shall 
consult with the appropriate congressional committees on specific 
responses received by the Secretary of State from each of the nations 
of the Western Europe and Others Group (WEOG) on their position 
concerning Israel's acceptance into their organization.

SEC. 812. DATA ON COSTS INCURRED IN SUPPORT OF UNITED NATIONS 
              PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.

    Chapter 6 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2348 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 554. DATA ON COSTS INCURRED IN SUPPORT OF UNITED NATIONS 
              PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.

    ``(a) United States Costs.--The President shall annually provide to 
the Secretary General of the United Nations data regarding all costs 
incurred by the United States Department of Defense during the 
preceding year in support of all United Nations Security Council 
resolutions.
    ``(b) United Nations Member Costs.--The President shall request 
that the United Nations compile and publish information concerning 
costs incurred by United Nations members in support of such 
resolutions.''.

SEC. 813. REIMBURSEMENT FOR GOODS AND SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE UNITED 
              STATES TO THE UNITED NATIONS.

    The United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (22 U.S.C. 287 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 10. REIMBURSEMENT FOR GOODS AND SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE UNITED 
              STATES TO THE UNITED NATIONS.

    ``(a) Requirement To Obtain Reimbursement.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        President shall seek and obtain in a timely fashion a 
        commitment from the United Nations to provide reimbursement to 
        the United States from the United Nations whenever the United 
        States Government furnishes assistance pursuant to the 
        provisions of law described in subsection (c)--
                    ``(A) to the United Nations when the assistance is 
                designed to facilitate or assist in carrying out an 
                assessed peacekeeping operation;
                    ``(B) for any United Nations peacekeeping operation 
                that is authorized by the United Nations Security 
                Council under Chapter VI or Chapter VII of the United 
                Nations Charter and paid for by peacekeeping or regular 
                budget assessment of the United Nations members; or
                    ``(C) to any country participating in any operation 
                authorized by the United Nations Security Council under 
                Chapter VI or Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter 
                and paid for by peacekeeping assessments of United 
                Nations members when the assistance is designed to 
                facilitate or assist the participation of that country 
                in the operation.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The requirement in paragraph (1) 
                shall not apply to--
                            ``(i) goods and services provided to the 
                        United States Armed Forces;
                            ``(ii) assistance having a value of less 
                        than $3,000,000 per fiscal year per operation;
                            ``(iii) assistance furnished before the 
                        date of enactment of this section;
                            ``(iv) salaries and expenses of civilian 
                        police and other civilian and military monitors 
                        where United Nations policy is to require 
                        payment by contributing members for similar 
                        assistance to United Nations peacekeeping 
                        operations; or
                            ``(v) any assistance commitment made before 
                        the date of enactment of this section.
                    ``(B) Deployments of united states military 
                forces.-- The requirements of subsection (d)(1)(B) 
                shall not apply to the deployment of United States 
                military forces when the President determines that such 
                deployment is important to the security interests of 
                the United States. The cost of such deployment shall be 
                included in the data provided under section 554 of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
            ``(3) Form and amount.--
                    ``(A) Amount.--The amount of any reimbursement 
                under this subsection shall be determined at the usual 
                rate established by the United Nations.
                    ``(B) Form.--Reimbursement under this subsection 
                may include credits against the United States assessed 
                contributions for United Nations peacekeeping 
                operations, if the expenses incurred by any United 
                States department or agency providing the assistance 
                have first been reimbursed.
    ``(b) Treatment of Reimbursements.--
            ``(1) Credit.--The amount of any reimbursement paid the 
        United States under subsection (a) shall be credited to the 
        current applicable appropriation, fund, or account of the 
        United States department or agency providing the assistance for 
        which the reimbursement is paid.
            ``(2) Availability.--Amounts credited under paragraph (1) 
        shall be merged with the appropriations, or with appropriations 
        in the fund or account, to which credited and shall be 
        available for the same purposes, and subject to the same 
        conditions and limitations, as the appropriations with which 
        merged.
    ``(c) Covered Assistance.--Subsection (a) applies to assistance 
provided under the following provisions of law:
            ``(1) Sections 6 and 7 of this Act.
            ``(2) Sections 451, 506(a)(1), 516, 552(c), and 607 of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
            ``(3) Any other provisions of law pursuant to which 
        assistance is provided by the United States to carry out the 
        mandate of an assessed United Nations peacekeeping operation.
    ``(d) Waiver.--
            ``(1) Authority.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The President may authorize the 
                furnishing of assistance covered by this section 
                without regard to subsection (a) if the President 
                determines, and so notifies in writing the Committee on 
                Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives, that to do so is important to 
                the security interests of the United States.
                    ``(B) Congressional notification.--When exercising 
                the authorities of subparagraph (A), the President 
                shall notify the appropriate congressional committees 
                in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
                reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the 
                Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
            ``(2) Congressional review.--Notwithstanding a notice under 
        paragraph (1) with respect to assistance covered by this 
        section, subsection (a) shall apply to the furnishing of the 
        assistance if, not later than 15 calendar days after receipt of 
        a notification under that paragraph, the Congress enacts a 
        joint resolution disapproving the determination of the 
        President contained in the notification.
            ``(3) Senate procedures.--Any joint resolution described in 
        paragraph (2) shall be considered in the Senate in accordance 
        with the provisions of section 601(b) of the International 
        Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
    ``(e) Relationship to Other Reimbursement Authority.--Nothing in 
this section shall preclude the President from seeking reimbursement 
for assistance covered by this section that is in addition to the 
reimbursement sought for the assistance under subsection (a).
    ``(f) Definition.--In this section, the term `assistance' includes 
personnel, services, supplies, equipment, facilities, and other 
assistance if such assistance is provided by the Department of Defense 
or any other United States Government agency.''.

 Subtitle C--International Organizations Other than the United Nations

SEC. 821. RESTRICTION RELATING TO UNITED STATES ACCESSION TO THE 
              INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT.

    (a) Prohibition.--The United States shall not become a party to the 
International Criminal Court except pursuant to a treaty made under 
Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United 
States on or after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this or any other Act may be obligated for use by, or for support 
of, the International Criminal Court unless the United States has 
become a party to the Court pursuant to a treaty made under Article II, 
section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States on or 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) International Criminal Court Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``International Criminal Court'' means the court established by 
the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted by the 
United Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on the 
Establishment of an International Criminal Court on July 17, 1998.

SEC. 822. PROHIBITION ON EXTRADITION OR TRANSFER OF UNITED STATES 
              CITIZENS TO THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT.

    (a) Prohibition on Extradition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act may 
be used to extradite a United States citizen to a foreign country that 
is under an obligation to surrender persons to the International 
Criminal Court unless that foreign country confirms to the United 
States that applicable prohibitions on reextradition apply to such 
surrender or gives other satisfactory assurances to the United States 
that the country will not extradite or otherwise transfer that citizen 
to the International Criminal Court.
    (b) Prohibition on Consent to Extradition by Third Countries.--None 
of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available 
by this or any other Act may be used to provide consent to the 
extradition or transfer of a United States citizen by a foreign country 
that is under an obligation to surrender persons to the International 
Criminal Court to a third country, unless the third country confirms to 
the United States that applicable prohibitions on reextradition apply 
to such surrender or gives other satisfactory assurances to the United 
States that the third country will not extradite or otherwise transfer 
that citizen to the International Criminal Court.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``International Criminal 
Court'' has the meaning given the term in section 821(c) of this Act.

SEC. 823. PERMANENT REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTS REGARDING FOREIGN TRAVEL.

    Section 2505 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 
1998 (as contained in division G of Public Law 105-277) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``by this division for 
        fiscal year 1999'' and inserting ``for the Department of State 
        for any fiscal year''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``not later than April 
        1, 1999,'' and inserting ``on April 1 and October 1 of each 
        year''.

SEC. 824. ASSISTANCE TO STATES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS BY THE 
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION.

    (a) Authority.--Upon the request of a State or local government, 
the Commissioner of the United States Section of the International 
Boundary and Water Commission may provide, on a reimbursable basis, 
technical tests, evaluations, information, surveys, or other similar 
services to that government.
    (b) Reimbursements.--
            (1) Amount of reimbursement.--Reimbursement for services 
        under subsection (a) shall be made before the services are 
        provided and shall be in an amount equal to the estimated or 
        actual cost of providing the goods or services, as determined 
        by the United States Section of the International Boundary and 
        Water Commission. Proper adjustment of amounts paid in advance 
        by the recipient of the services shall be made as agreed to by 
        the United States Section of the International Boundary and 
        Water Commission on the basis of the actual cost of goods or 
        services provided.
            (2) Crediting applicable appropriation account.--
        Reimbursements received by the United States Section of the 
        International Boundary and Water Commission for providing 
        services under this section shall be deposited as an offsetting 
        collection to the appropriation account from which the cost of 
        providing the services has been paid or will be charged.

SEC. 825. UNITED STATES REPRESENTATION AT THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC 
              ENERGY AGENCY.

    (a) Amendment to the United Nations Participation Act of 1945.--
Section 2(h) of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (22 U.S.C. 
287(h)) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
``The representative of the United States to the Vienna office of the 
United Nations shall also serve as representative of the United States 
to the International Atomic Energy Agency.''.
    (b) Amendment to the IAEA Participation Act of 1957.--Section 2(a) 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency Participation Act of 1957 (22 
U.S.C. 2021(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``The Representative of the United States to the Vienna 
office of the United Nations shall also serve as representative of the 
United States to the Agency.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall apply to individuals appointed on or after the date of enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 826. ANNUAL FINANCIAL AUDITS OF UNITED STATES SECTION OF THE 
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--An independent auditor shall annually conduct an 
audit of the financial statements and accompanying notes to the 
financial statements of the United States Section of the International 
Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico (in this 
section referred to as the ``Commission''), in accordance with 
generally accepted Government auditing standards and such other 
procedures as may be established by the Office of the Inspector General 
of the Department of State.
    (b) Reports.--The independent auditor shall report the results of 
such audit, including a description of the scope of the audit and an 
expression of opinion as to the overall fairness of the financial 
statements, to the International Boundary and Water Commission, United 
States and Mexico. The financial statements of the Commission shall be 
presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
These financial statements and the report of the independent auditor 
shall be included in a report which the Commission shall submit to the 
Congress not later than 90 days after the end of the last fiscal year 
covered by the audit.
    (c) Review by the Comptroller General.--The Comptroller General of 
the United States (in this section referred to as the ``Comptroller 
General'') may review the audit conducted by the auditor and the report 
to the Congress in the manner and at such times as the Comptroller 
General considers necessary. In lieu of the audit required by 
subsection (b), the Comptroller General shall, if the Comptroller 
General considers it necessary or, upon the request of the Congress, 
audit the financial statements of the Commission in the manner provided 
in subsection (b).
    (d) Availability of Information.--In the event of a review by the 
Comptroller General under subsection (c), all books, accounts, 
financial records, reports, files, workpapers, and property belonging 
to or in use by the Commission and the auditor who conducts the audit 
under subsection (b), which are necessary for purposes of this 
subsection, shall be made available to the representatives of the 
General Accounting Office designated by the Comptroller General.

SEC. 827. SENSE OF CONGRESS CONCERNING ICTR.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) 
        was established to prosecute individuals responsible for 
        genocide and other serious violations of international 
        humanitarian law committed in the territory of Rwanda.
            (2) A separate tribunal, the International Criminal 
        Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), was created with a 
        similar purpose for crimes committed in the territory of the 
        former Yugoslavia.
            (3) The acts of genocide and crimes against humanity that 
        have been perpetrated against civilians in the Great Lakes 
        region of Africa equal in horror the acts committed in the 
        territory of the former Yugoslavia.
            (4) The ICTR has succeeded in issuing at least 28 
        indictments against 48 individuals, and currently has in 
        custody 38 individuals presumed to have led and directed the 
        1994 genocide.
            (5) The ICTR issued the first conviction ever by an 
        international court for the crime of genocide against Jean-Paul 
        Akayesu, the former mayor of Taba, who was sentenced to life in 
        prison.
            (6) The mandate of the ICTR is limited to acts committed 
        only during calendar year 1994, yet the mandate of the ICTY 
        covers serious violations of international humanitarian law 
        since 1991 through the present.
            (7) There have been well substantiated allegations of major 
        crimes against humanity and war crimes that have taken place in 
        the Great Lakes region of Africa that fall outside of the 
        current mandate of the Tribunal in terms of either the dates 
        when, or geographical areas where, such crimes took place.
            (8) The attention accorded the ICTY and the indictments 
        that have been made as a result of the ICTY's broad mandate 
        continue to play an important role in current United States 
        policy in the Balkans.
            (9) The international community must send an unmistakable 
        signal that genocide and other crimes against humanity cannot 
        be committed with impunity.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
President should instruct the United States United Nations 
Representative to advocate to the Security Council to direct the Office 
for Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) to reevaluate the conduct and 
operation of the ICTR. Particularly, the OIOS should assess the 
progress made by the Tribunal in implementing the recommendations of 
the Report of the United Nations Secretary-General on the Activities of 
the Office of Internal Oversight Services, A/52/784, of February 6, 
1998. The OIOS should also include an evaluation of the potential 
impact of expanding the original mandate of the ICTR.
    (c) Report.--Ninety days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State shall report to Congress on the effectiveness and progress of 
the ICTR. The report shall include an assessment of the ICTR's ability 
to meet its current mandate and an evaluation of the potential impact 
of expanding that mandate to include crimes committed after calendar 
year 1994.

                 TITLE IX--ARREARS PAYMENTS AND REFORM

                     Subtitle A--General Provisions

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``United Nations Reform Act of 
1999''.

SEC. 902. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and the Committee on International Relations and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Designated specialized agency defined.--The term 
        ``designated specialized agency'' means the International Labor 
        Organization, the World Health Organization, and the Food and 
        Agriculture Organization.
            (3) General assembly.--The term ``General Assembly'' means 
        the General Assembly of the United Nations.
            (4) Secretary general.--The term ``Secretary General'' 
        means the Secretary General of the United Nations.
            (5) Security council.--The term ``Security Council'' means 
        the Security Council of the United Nations.
            (6) United nations member.--The term ``United Nations 
        member'' means any country that is a member of the United 
        Nations.
            (7) United nations peacekeeping operation.--The term 
        ``United Nations peacekeeping operation'' means any United 
        Nations-led operation to maintain or restore international 
        peace or security that--
                    (A) is authorized by the Security Council; and
                    (B) is paid for from assessed contributions of 
                United Nations members that are made available for 
                peacekeeping activities.

              Subtitle B--Arrearages to the United Nations

CHAPTER 1--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; OBLIGATION AND EXPENDITURE 
                                OF FUNDS

SEC. 911. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Authorization.--
            (1) Fiscal year 1998.--
                    (A) Regular assessments.--In title IV of the 
                Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
                Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
                1998 (Public Law 105-119), under the heading 
                ``Contributions to International Organizations'', the 
                first proviso shall not apply.
                    (B) Peacekeeping assessments.--In title IV of the 
                Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the 
                Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
                1998 (Public Law 105-119), under the heading 
                ``Contributions for International Peacekeeping 
                Activities'', the first and second provisos shall not 
                apply.
            (2) Fiscal year 1999.--Pursuant to the first proviso under 
        the heading ``Arrearage Payments'' in title IV of the Commerce, 
        Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 1999 (as contained in section 101(b) of 
        division A of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999; Public Law 105-277), the 
        obligation and expenditure of funds appropriated under such 
        heading for payment of arrearages to meet obligations of 
        membership in the United Nations, and to pay assessed expenses 
        of international peacekeeping activities are hereby authorized, 
        and the second proviso under such heading shall not apply.
            (3) Fiscal year 2000.--There are authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Department of State for payment of 
        arrearages owed by the United States described in subsection 
        (b) as of September 30, 1997, $244,000,000 for fiscal year 
        2000.
    (b) Limitation.--Amounts made available under subsection (a) are 
authorized to be available only--
            (1) to pay the United States share of assessments for the 
        regular budget of the United Nations;
            (2) to pay the United States share of United Nations 
        peacekeeping operations;
            (3) to pay the United States share of United Nations 
        specialized agencies; and
            (4) to pay the United States share of other international 
        organizations.
    (c) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
subsection (a) are authorized to remain available until expended.
    (d) Statutory Construction.--For purposes of payments made using 
funds made available under subsection (a), section 404(b)(2) of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public 
Law 103-236) shall not apply to United Nations peacekeeping operation 
assessments received by the United States prior to October 1, 1995.

SEC. 912. OBLIGATION AND EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--Funds made available pursuant to section 911 may 
be obligated and expended only if the requirements of subsections (b) 
and (c) of this section are satisfied.
    (b) Obligation and Expenditure Upon Satisfaction of Certification 
Requirements.--Subject to subsections (e) and (f), funds made available 
pursuant to section 911 may be obligated and expended only in the 
following allotments and upon the following certifications:
            (1) Amounts made available for fiscal year 1998, upon the 
        certification described in section 921.
            (2) Amounts made available for fiscal year 1999, upon the 
        certification described in section 931.
            (3) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 
        2000, upon the certification described in section 941.
    (c) Advance Congressional Notification.--Funds made available 
pursuant to section 911 may be obligated and expended only if the 
appropriate certification has been submitted to the appropriate 
congressional committees 30 days prior to the payment of the funds.
    (d) Transmittal of Certifications.--Certifications made under this 
chapter shall be transmitted by the Secretary of State to the 
appropriate congressional committees.
    (e) Waiver Authority With Respect to Fiscal Year 1999 Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3) and 
        notwithstanding subsection (b), funds made available under 
        section 911 for fiscal year 1999 may be obligated or expended 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(2) even if the Secretary of State 
        cannot certify that the condition described in section 
        931(b)(1) has been satisfied.
            (2) Requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The authority to waive the 
                condition described in paragraph (1) of this subsection 
                may be exercised only if the Secretary of State--
                            (i) determines that substantial progress 
                        towards satisfying the condition has been made 
                        and that the expenditure of funds pursuant to 
                        that paragraph is important to the interests of 
                        the United States; and
                            (ii) has notified, and consulted with, the 
                        appropriate congressional committees prior to 
                        exercising the authority.
                    (B) Effect on subsequent certification.--If the 
                Secretary of State exercises the authority of paragraph 
                (1), the condition described in that paragraph shall be 
                deemed to have been satisfied for purposes of making 
                any certification under section 941.
            (3) Additional requirement.--If the authority to waive a 
        condition under paragraph (1)(A) is exercised, the Secretary of 
        State shall notify the United Nations that the Congress does 
        not consider the United States obligated to pay, and does not 
        intend to pay, arrearages that have not been included in the 
        contested arrearages account or other mechanism described in 
        section 931(b)(1).
    (f) Waiver Authority With Respect to Fiscal Year 2000 Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding subsection (b), funds made available under 
        section 911 for fiscal year 2000 may be obligated or expended 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(3) even if the Secretary of State 
        cannot certify that the condition described in paragraph (1) of 
        section 941(b) has been satisfied.
            (2) Requirements.--
                    (A) In general.--The authority to waive a condition 
                under paragraph (1) may be exercised only if the 
                Secretary of State has notified, and consulted with, 
                the appropriate congressional committees prior to 
                exercising the authority.
                    (B) Effect on subsequent certification.--If the 
                Secretary of State exercises the authority of paragraph 
                (1) with respect to a condition, such condition shall 
                be deemed to have been satisfied for purposes of making 
                any certification under section 941.

SEC. 913. FORGIVENESS OF AMOUNTS OWED BY THE UNITED NATIONS TO THE 
              UNITED STATES.

    (a) Forgiveness of Indebtedness.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
President is authorized to forgive or reduce any amount owed by the 
United Nations to the United States as a reimbursement, including any 
reimbursement payable under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the 
United Nations Participation Act of 1945.
    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) Total amount.--The total of amounts forgiven or reduced 
        under subsection (a) may not exceed $107,000,000.
            (2) Relation to united states arrearages.--Amounts shall be 
        forgiven or reduced under this section only to the same extent 
        as the United Nations forgives or reduces amounts owed by the 
        United States to the United Nations as of September 30, 1997.
    (c) Requirements.--The authority in subsection (a) shall be 
available only to the extent and in the amounts provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts.
    (d) Congressional Notification.--Before exercising any authority in 
subsection (a), the President shall notify the appropriate 
congressional committees in accordance with the same procedures as are 
applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394-1).
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date a 
certification is transmitted to the appropriate congressional 
committees under section 931.

                  CHAPTER 2--UNITED STATES SOVEREIGNTY

SEC. 921. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Contents of Certification.--A certification described in this 
section is a certification by the Secretary of State that the following 
conditions are satisfied:
            (1) Supremacy of the united states constitution.--No action 
        has been taken by the United Nations or any of its specialized 
        or affiliated agencies that requires the United States to 
        violate the United States Constitution or any law of the United 
        States.
            (2) No united nations sovereignty.--Neither the United 
        Nations nor any of its specialized or affiliated agencies--
                    (A) has exercised sovereignty over the United 
                States; or
                    (B) has taken any steps that require the United 
                States to cede sovereignty.
            (3) No united nations taxation.--
                    (A) No legal authority.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (D), neither the United Nations nor any of 
                its specialized or affiliated agencies has the 
                authority under United States law to impose taxes or 
                fees on United States nationals.
                    (B) No taxes or fees.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (D), a tax or fee has not been imposed on 
                any United States national by the United Nations or any 
                of its specialized or affiliated agencies.
                    (C) No taxation proposals.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (D), neither the United Nations nor any of 
                its specialized or affiliated agencies has, on or after 
                October 1, 1996, officially approved any formal effort 
                to develop, advocate, or promote any proposal 
                concerning the imposition of a tax or fee on any United 
                States national in order to raise revenue for the 
                United Nations or any such agency.
                    (D) Exception.--This paragraph does not apply to--
                            (i) fees for publications or other kinds of 
                        fees that are not tantamount to a tax on United 
                        States citizens;
                            (ii) the World Intellectual Property 
                        Organization; or
                            (iii) the staff assessment costs of the 
                        United Nations and its specialized or 
                        affiliated agencies.
            (4) No standing army.--The United Nations has not, on or 
        after October 1, 1996, budgeted any funds for, nor taken any 
        official steps to develop, create, or establish any special 
        agreement under Article 43 of the United Nations Charter to 
        make available to the United Nations, on its call, the armed 
        forces of any member of the United Nations.
            (5) No interest fees.--The United Nations has not, on or 
        after October 1, 1996, levied interest penalties against the 
        United States or any interest on arrearages on the annual 
        assessment of the United States, and neither the United Nations 
        nor its specialized agencies have, on or after October 1, 1996, 
        amended their financial regulations or taken any other action 
        that would permit interest penalties to be levied against the 
        United States or otherwise charge the United States any 
        interest on arrearages on its annual assessment.
            (6) United states real property rights.--Neither the United 
        Nations nor any of its specialized or affiliated agencies has 
        exercised authority or control over any United States national 
        park, wildlife preserve, monument, or real property, nor has 
        the United Nations nor any of its specialized or affiliated 
        agencies implemented plans, regulations, programs, or 
        agreements that exercise control or authority over the private 
        real property of United States citizens located in the United 
        States without the approval of the property owner.
            (7) Termination of borrowing authority.--
                    (A) Prohibition on authorization of external 
                borrowing.--On or after the date of enactment of this 
                Act, neither the United Nations nor any specialized 
                agency of the United Nations has amended its financial 
                regulations to permit external borrowing.
                    (B) Prohibition of united states payment of 
                interest costs.--The United States has not, on or after 
                October 1, 1984, paid its share of any interest costs 
                made known to or identified by the United States 
                Government for loans incurred, on or after October 1, 
                1984, by the United Nations or any specialized agency 
                of the United Nations through external borrowing.
    (b) Transmittal.--The Secretary of State may transmit a 
certification under subsection (a) at any time during fiscal year 1998 
or thereafter if the requirements of the certification are satisfied.

   CHAPTER 3--REFORM OF ASSESSMENTS AND UNITED NATIONS PEACEKEEPING 
                               OPERATIONS

SEC. 931. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--A certification described in this section is a 
certification by the Secretary of State that the conditions in 
subsection (b) are satisfied. Such certification shall not be made by 
the Secretary if the Secretary determines that any of the conditions 
set forth in section 921 are no longer satisfied.
    (b) Conditions.--The conditions under this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Contested arrearages.--The United Nations has 
        established an account or other appropriate mechanism with 
        respect to all United States arrearages incurred before the 
        date of enactment of this Act with respect to which payments 
        are not authorized by this Act, and the failure to pay amounts 
        specified in the account does not affect the application of 
        Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations. The account 
        established under this paragraph may be referred to as the 
        ``contested arrearages account''.
            (2) Limitation on assessed share of budget for united 
        nations peacekeeping operations.--The assessed share of the 
        budget for each assessed United Nations peacekeeping operation 
        does not exceed 25 percent for any single United Nations 
        member.
            (3) Limitation on assessed share of regular budget.--The 
        share of the total of all assessed contributions for the 
        regular budget of the United Nations does not exceed 22 percent 
        for any single United Nations member.

                 CHAPTER 4--BUDGET AND PERSONNEL REFORM

SEC. 941. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        certification described in this section is a certification by 
        the Secretary of State that the conditions in subsection (b) 
        are satisfied.
            (2) Specified certification.--A certification described in 
        this section is also a certification that, with respect to the 
        United Nations or a particular designated specialized agency, 
        the conditions in subsection (b)(4) applicable to that 
        organization are satisfied, regardless of whether the 
        conditions in subsection (b)(4) applicable to any other 
        organization are satisfied, if the other conditions in 
        subsection (b) are satisfied.
            (3) Effect of specified certification.--Funds made 
        available under section 912(b)(3) upon a certification made 
        under this section with respect to the United Nations or a 
        particular designated specialized agency shall be limited to 
        that portion of the funds available under that section that is 
        allocated for the organization with respect to which the 
        certification is made and for any other organization to which 
        none of the conditions in subsection (b) apply.
            (4) Limitation.--A certification described in this section 
        shall not be made by the Secretary if the Secretary determines 
        that any of the conditions set forth in sections 921 and 931 
        are no longer satisfied.
    (b) Conditions.--The conditions under this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Limitation on assessed share of regular budget.--The 
        share of the total of all assessed contributions for the 
        regular budget of the United Nations, or any designated 
        specialized agency of the United Nations, does not exceed 20 
        percent for any single United Nations member.
            (2) Inspectors general for certain organizations.--
                    (A) Establishment of offices.--Each designated 
                specialized agency has established an independent 
                office of inspector general to conduct and supervise 
                objective audits, inspections, and investigations 
                relating to the programs and operations of the 
                organization.
                    (B) Appointment of inspectors general.--The 
                Director General of each designated specialized agency 
                has appointed an inspector general, with the approval 
                of the member states, and that appointment was made 
                principally on the basis of the appointee's integrity 
                and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, 
                financial analysis, law, management analysis, public 
                administration, or investigations.
                    (C) Assigned functions.--Each inspector general 
                appointed under subparagraph (A) is authorized to--
                            (i) make investigations and reports 
                        relating to the administration of the programs 
                        and operations of the agency concerned;
                            (ii) have access to all records, documents, 
                        and other available materials relating to those 
                        programs and operations of the agency 
                        concerned; and
                            (iii) have direct and prompt access to any 
                        official of the agency concerned.
                    (D) Complaints.--Each designated specialized agency 
                has procedures in place designed to protect the 
                identity of, and to prevent reprisals against, any 
                staff member making a complaint or disclosing 
                information to, or cooperating in any investigation or 
                inspection by, the inspector general of the agency.
                    (E) Compliance with recommendations.--Each 
                designated specialized agency has in place procedures 
                designed to ensure compliance with the recommendations 
                of the inspector general of the agency.
                    (F) Availability of reports.--Each designated 
                specialized agency has in place procedures to ensure 
                that all annual and other relevant reports submitted by 
                the inspector general to the agency are made available 
                to the member states without modification except to the 
                extent necessary to protect the privacy rights of 
                individuals.
            (3) New budget procedures for the united nations.--The 
        United Nations has established and is implementing budget 
        procedures that--
                    (A) require the maintenance of a budget not in 
                excess of the level agreed to by the General Assembly 
                at the beginning of each United Nations budgetary 
                biennium, unless increases are agreed to by consensus; 
                and
                    (B) require the system-wide identification of 
                expenditures by functional categories such as 
                personnel, travel, and equipment.
            (4) Sunset policy for certain united nations programs.--
                    (A) Existing authority.--The Secretary General and 
                the Director General of each designated specialized 
                agency have used their existing authorities to require 
                program managers within the United Nations Secretariat 
                and the Secretariats of the designated specialized 
                agencies to conduct evaluations of United Nations 
                programs approved by the General Assembly, and of 
                programs of the designated specialized agencies, in 
                accordance with the standardized methodology referred 
                to in subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Development of evaluation criteria.--
                            (i) United nations.--The Office of Internal 
                        Oversight Services has developed a standardized 
                        methodology for the evaluation of United 
                        Nations programs approved by the General 
                        Assembly, including specific criteria for 
                        determining the continuing relevance and 
                        effectiveness of the programs.
                            (ii) Designated specialized agencies.--
                        Patterned on the work of the Office of Internal 
                        Oversight Services of the United Nations, each 
                        designated specialized agency has developed a 
                        standardized methodology for the evaluation of 
                        the programs of the agency, including specific 
                        criteria for determining the continuing 
                        relevance and effectiveness of the programs.
                    (C) Procedures.--Consistent with the July 16, 1997, 
                recommendations of the Secretary General regarding a 
                sunset policy and results-based budgeting for United 
                Nations programs, the United Nations and each 
                designated specialized agency has established and is 
                implementing procedures--
                            (i) requiring the Secretary General or the 
                        Director General of the agency, as the case may 
                        be, to report on the results of evaluations 
                        referred to in this paragraph, including the 
                        identification of programs that have met 
                        criteria for continuing relevance and 
                        effectiveness and proposals to terminate or 
                        modify programs that have not met such 
                        criteria; and
                            (ii) authorizing an appropriate body within 
                        the United Nations or the agency, as the case 
                        may be, to review each evaluation referred to 
                        in this paragraph and report to the General 
                        Assembly on means of improving the program 
                        concerned or on terminating the program.
                    (D) United states policy.--It shall be the policy 
                of the United States to seek adoption by the United 
                Nations of a resolution requiring that each United 
                Nations program approved by the General Assembly, and 
                to seek adoption by each designated specialized agency 
                of a resolution requiring that each program of the 
                agency, be subject to an evaluation referred to in this 
                paragraph and have a specific termination date so that 
                the program will not be renewed unless the evaluation 
                demonstrates the continuing relevance and effectiveness 
                of the program.
                    (E) Definition.--For purposes of this paragraph, 
                the term ``United Nations program approved by the 
                General Assembly'' means a program approved by the 
                General Assembly of the United Nations which is 
                administered or funded by the United Nations.
            (5) United nations advisory committee on administrative and 
        budgetary questions.--
                    (A) In general.--The United States has a seat on 
                the United Nations Advisory Committee on Administrative 
                and Budgetary Questions or the five largest member 
                contributors each have a seat on the Advisory 
                Committee.
                    (B) Definition.--As used in this paragraph, the 
                term ``5 largest member contributors'' means the 5 
                United Nations member states that, during a United 
                Nations budgetary biennium, have more total assessed 
                contributions than any other United Nations member 
                state to the aggregate of the United Nations regular 
                budget and the budget (or budgets) for United Nations 
                peacekeeping operations.
            (6) Access by the general accounting office.--The United 
        Nations has in effect procedures providing access by the United 
        States General Accounting Office to United Nations financial 
        data to assist the Office in performing nationally mandated 
        reviews of United Nations operations.
            (7) Personnel.--
                    (A) Appointment and service of personnel.--The 
                Secretary General--
                            (i) has established and is implementing 
                        procedures that ensure that staff employed by 
                        the United Nations is appointed on the basis of 
                        merit consistent with Article 101 of the United 
                        Nations Charter; and
                            (ii) is enforcing those contractual 
                        obligations requiring worldwide availability of 
                        all professional staff of the United Nations to 
                        serve and be relocated based on the needs of 
                        the United Nations.
                    (B) Code of conduct.--The General Assembly has 
                adopted, and the Secretary General has the authority to 
                enforce and is effectively enforcing, a code of conduct 
                binding on all United Nations personnel, including the 
                requirement of financial disclosure statements binding 
                on senior United Nations personnel and the 
                establishment of rules against nepotism that are 
                binding on all United Nations personnel.
                    (C) Personnel evaluation system.--The United 
                Nations has adopted and is enforcing a personnel 
                evaluation system.
                    (D) Periodic assessments.--The United Nations has 
                established and is implementing a mechanism to conduct 
                periodic assessments of the United Nations payroll to 
                determine total staffing, and the results of such 
                assessments are reported in an unabridged form to the 
                General Assembly.
                    (E) Review of united nations allowance system.--The 
                United States has completed a thorough review of the 
                United Nations personnel allowance system. The review 
                shall include a comparison of that system with the 
                United States civil service system, and shall make 
                recommendations to reduce entitlements to allowances 
                and allowance funding levels from the levels in effect 
                on January 1, 1998.
            (8) Reduction in budget authorities.--The designated 
        specialized agencies have achieved zero nominal growth in their 
        biennium budgets for 2000-01 from the 1998-99 biennium budget 
        levels of the respective agencies.
            (9) New budget procedures and financial regulations.--Each 
        designated specialized agency has established procedures to--
                    (A) require the maintenance of a budget that does 
                not exceed the level agreed to by the member states of 
                the organization at the beginning of each budgetary 
                biennium, unless increases are agreed to by consensus;
                    (B) require the identification of expenditures by 
                functional categories such as personnel, travel, and 
                equipment; and
                    (C) require approval by the member states of the 
                agency's supplemental budget requests to the 
                Secretariat in advance of expenditures under those 
                requests.
            (10) Limitation on assessed share of regular budget for the 
        designated specialized agencies.--The share of the total of all 
        assessed contributions for any designated specialized agency 
        does not exceed 22 percent for any single member of the agency.

                  Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions

SEC. 951. STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION ON RELATION TO EXISTING LAWS.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided, nothing in this title 
may be construed to make available funds in violation of any provision 
of law containing a specific prohibition or restriction on the use of 
the funds, including section 114 of the Department of State 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (22 U.S.C. 287e note), 
section 151 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 
1986 and 1987 (22 U.S.C. 287e note), and section 404 of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 287e 
note).

SEC. 952. PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS RELATING TO UNIDO AND OTHER 
              INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS FROM WHICH THE UNITED STATES 
              HAS WITHDRAWN OR RESCINDED FUNDING.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this title shall 
be used to pay any arrearage for--
            (1) the United Nations Industrial Development Organization;
            (2) any costs to merge that organization into the United 
        Nations;
            (3) the costs associated with any other organization of the 
        United Nations from which the United States has withdrawn 
        including the costs of the merger of such organization into the 
        United Nations; or
            (4) the World Tourism Organization, or any other 
        international organization with respect to which Congress has 
        rescinded funding.

             TITLE X--RUSSIAN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION

SEC. 1001. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to establish a training program in 
Russia for nationals of Russia to obtain skills in business 
administration, accounting, and marketing, with special emphasis on 
instruction in business ethics and in the basic terminology, 
techniques, and practices of those disciplines, to achieve 
international standards of quality, transparency, and competitiveness.

SEC. 1002. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the United States-Russia 
Business Management Training Board established under section 1005(a).
    (b) Distance Learning.--The term ``distance learning'' means 
training through computers, interactive videos, teleconferencing, and 
videoconferencing between and among students and teachers.
    (c) Eligible Enterprise.--The term ``eligible enterprise'' means--
            (1) a business concern operating in Russia that employs 
        Russian nationals; and
            (2) a private enterprise that is being formed or operated 
        by former officers of the Russian armed forces in Russia.
    (d) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
State.

SEC. 1003. AUTHORIZATION FOR TRAINING PROGRAM AND INTERNSHIPS.

    (a) Training Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State, acting through the 
        Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, and taking into 
        account the general policies recommended by the United States-
        Russia Business Management Training Board established under 
        section 1005(a), is authorized to establish a program of 
        technical assistance (in this title referred to as the 
        ``program'') to provide the training described in section 1001 
        to eligible enterprises.
            (2) Implementation.--Training shall be carried out by 
        United States nationals having expertise in business 
        administration, accounting, and marketing or by Russian 
        nationals who have been trained under the program or by those 
        who meet criteria established by the Board. Such training may 
        be carried out--
                    (A) in the offices of eligible enterprises, at 
                business schools or institutes, or at other locations 
                in Russia, including facilities of the armed forces of 
                Russia, educational institutions, or in the offices of 
                trade or industry associations, with special 
                consideration given to locations where similar training 
                opportunities are limited or nonexistent; or
                    (B) by ``distance learning'' programs originating 
                in the United States or in European branches of United 
                States institutions.
    (b) Internships With United States Domestic Business Concerns.--The 
Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of State for Public 
Diplomacy, is authorized to pay the travel expenses and appropriate in-
country business English language training, if needed, of certain 
Russian nationals who have completed training under the program to 
undertake short-term internships with business concerns in the United 
States upon the recommendation of the Board.

SEC. 1004. APPLICATIONS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Procedures.--
            (1) In general.--Each eligible enterprise that desires to 
        receive training for its employees and managers under this 
        title shall submit an application to the clearinghouse 
        established by subsection (d), at such time, in such manner, 
        and accompanied by such additional information as the Secretary 
        may reasonably require.
            (2) Joint applications.--A consortium of eligible 
        enterprises may file a joint application under the provisions 
        of paragraph (1).
    (b) Contents.--The Secretary shall approve an application under 
subsection (a) only if the application--
            (1) is for an individual or individuals employed in an 
        eligible enterprise or enterprises applying under the program;
            (2) describes the level of training for which assistance 
        under this title is sought;
            (3) provides evidence that the eligible enterprise meets 
        the general policies adopted by the Secretary for the 
        administration of this title;
            (4) provides assurances that the eligible enterprise will 
        pay a share of the costs of the training, which share may 
        include in-kind contributions; and
            (5) provides such additional assurances as the Secretary 
        determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the 
        requirements of this title.
    (c) Compliance With Board Policies.--The Secretary shall approve 
applications for technical assistance under the program after taking 
into account the recommendations of the Board.
    (d) Clearinghouse.--There is established a clearinghouse in Russia 
to manage and execute the program. The clearinghouse shall screen 
applications, provide information regarding training and teachers, 
monitor performance of the program, and coordinate appropriate post-
program follow-on activities.

SEC. 1005. UNITED STATES-RUSSIAN BUSINESS MANAGEMENT TRAINING BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established within the Department of 
State a United States-Russian Business Management Training Board.
    (b) Composition.--The Board established pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall be composed of 12 members as follows:
            (1) The Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy.
            (2) The Administrator of the Agency for International 
        Development.
            (3) The Secretary of Commerce.
            (4) The Secretary of Education.
            (5) Six individuals from the private sector having 
        expertise in business administration, accounting, and 
        marketing, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of State, as 
        follows:
                    (A) Two individuals employed by graduate schools of 
                management offering accredited degrees.
                    (B) Two individuals employed by eligible 
                enterprises.
                    (C) Two individuals from nongovernmental 
                organizations involved in promoting free market economy 
                practices in Russia.
            (6) Two nationals of Russia having experience in business 
        administration, accounting, or marketing, who shall be 
        appointed by the Secretary of State upon the recommendation of 
        the Government of Russia, and who shall serve as nonvoting 
        members.
    (c) General Policies.--The Board shall make recommendations to the 
Secretary with respect to general policies for the administration of 
this title, including--
            (1) guidelines for the administration of the program under 
        this title;
            (2) criteria for determining the qualifications of 
        applicants under the program;
            (3) the appointment of panels of business leaders in the 
        United States and Russia for the purpose of nominating 
        trainees; and
            (4) such other matters with respect to which the Secretary 
        may request recommendations.
    (d) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Board shall be designated 
by the President from among the voting members of the Board. Except as 
provided in subsection (e)(2), a majority of the voting members of the 
Board shall constitute a quorum.
    (e) Meetings.--The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson, 
except that--
            (1) the Board shall meet not less than 4 times each year; 
        and
            (2) the Board shall meet whenever one-third of the voting 
        members request a meeting in writing, in which event 7 of the 
        voting members shall constitute a quorum.
    (f) Compensation.--Members of the Board who are not in the regular 
full-time employ of the United States shall receive, while engaged in 
the business of the Board, compensation for service at a rate to be 
fixed by the President, except that such rate shall not exceed the rate 
specified at the time of such service for level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, including 
traveltime, and, while so serving away from their homes or regular 
places of business, they may be allowed travel expenses, including per 
diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, 
United States Code, for persons employed intermittently in Government 
service.

SEC. 1006. RESTRICTIONS NOT APPLICABLE.

    Prohibitions on the use of foreign assistance funds for assistance 
for the Russian Federation shall not apply with respect to the funds 
made available to carry out this title.

SEC. 1007. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2000 and 2001 to carry out this title.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized to remain available until expended.

SEC. 1008. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title shall take effect on October 1, 1999.

            Passed the Senate June 22, 1999.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
106th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 886

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To authorize appropriations for the Department of State for fiscal 
years 2000 and 2001; to provide for enhanced security at United States 
      diplomatic facilities; to provide for certain arms control, 
nonproliferation, and other national security measures; to provide for 
         reform of the United Nations; and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 30, 1999

                    Ordered to be printed as passed

S 886 PP----2
S 886 PP----3
S 886 PP----4
S 886 PP----5
S 886 PP----6
S 886 PP----7
S 886 PP----8
S 886 PP----9
S 886 PP----10
S 886 PP----11
S 886 PP----12
S 886 PP----13
S 886 PP----14
S 886 PP----15
S 886 PP----16
S 886 PP----17
S 886 PP----18
S 886 PP----19
S 886 PP----20