SC 108 RFH
101st CONGRESS
2d Session
S. CON. RES. 108
Concerning the right of self-determination of the Lithuanian people.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
March 26, 1990
Referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Whereas:
  (1) On February 24, 1990, the people of Lithuania held the first democratic
  election in Lithuania in more than half a century.
  (2) In that election, the people of Lithuania elected a large majority of
  candidates who supported the independence of Lithuania and the establishment
  of a democratic state.
  (3) On March 11, 1990, the newly elected Lithuanian Parliament proclaimed
  Lithuania an independent state.
  (4) The United States has never recognized the incorporation of Lithuania
  into the Soviet Union.
  (5) The Soviet Government has not yet recognized the action of the Lithuanian
  Parliament in declaring Lithuania independent.
  (6) The Soviet Government has undertaken action, including staging military
  maneuvers and ordering Soviet military units to assert more active and
  visible control over Lithuanian installations, in an apparent attempt to
  intimidate the Lithuanian Parliament and people.
  (7) More recently, Soviet President Gorbachev has reportedly ordered citizens
  of Lithuania to hand over any weapons they hold to Soviet authorities within
  seven days and has ordered tighter controls on the ability of foreigners
  to visit Lithuania.
  Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That:
  (1) The Lithuanian people should be commended for their courage and
  perseverance in holding free and fair elections, declaring an independent
  Republic of Lithuania, and in asserting their right to self-determination
  peacefully and through the democratic process.
  (2) The Government and people of the United States strongly and unequivocally
  support the right of the people of Lithuania to independence and democracy.
  (3) Recent actions of the Soviet Union apparently aimed at intimidating
  the Lithuanian Parliament and people have seriously exacerbated tensions
  and the possibility of violence in Lithuania.
  (4) The Soviet Union should immediately cease all such efforts to intimidate
  the Lithuanian Parliament and people.
  (5) The Soviet Union has no right to use force against Lithuanians
  peacefully exercising their democratic rights, and President Gorbachev
  and other Soviet leaders should clearly understand that the use of force
  against the Lithuanian people would have severe repercussions for United
  States-Soviet relations.
  (6) The Soviet Union should immediately begin the process of good-faith
  discussions with Lithuanian authorities to satisfy peacefully the expressed
  desire of the Lithuanian people for independence.
  (7) Supports the President's strong commitment to the doctrine of
  non-recognition of the forced incorporation of territory, such as occurred
  in the Baltic States in 1940, and urges the President to reaffirm his
  commitment to an independent and democratic Lithuania and to seek ways to
  actively demonstrate that commitment.
  (8) Urges the President to consider the call of the elected Lithuanian
  Government for recognition.
Passed the Senate March 22 (legislative day, January 23), 1990.
Attest:
WALTER J. STEWART,
Secretary.