SCON 120 HDS
102d CONGRESS
2d Session
S. CON. RES. 120
Declaring an article of amendment to be the Twenty-Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
May 19 (legislative day, MARCH 26), 1992
Mr. BYRD (for himself, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. DOLE, Mr. BOREN,
Mr. STEVENS, and Mr. THURMOND) submitted the following concurrent resolution;
which was ordered held at the desk
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
Declaring an article of amendment to be the Twenty-Seventh Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
Whereas two-thirds of each House of the First Congress duly proposed in 1789
an article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States to provide
that `No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives
shall have intervened.';
Whereas if duly ratified this proposed amendment on the effective date of laws
varying the compensation of Members of Congress would be the Twenty-Seventh
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
Whereas, pursuant to Senate Resolution 295, One Hundred Second Congress, the
Archivist of the United States has communicated to the Senate, with copies of
all the resolutions of ratification in his office, a list of States of the
Union whose legislatures have ratified the proposed article of amendment on
the effective date of laws varying the compensation of Members of Congress; and
Whereas the legislatures of the States of Maryland, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Delaware, Vermont, Virginia, Ohio, Wyoming, Maine, Colorado, South
Dakota, New Hampshire, Arizona, Tennessee, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Indiana,
Utah, Arkansas, Montana, Connecticut, Wisconsin, Georgia, West Virginia,
Louisiana, Iowa, Idaho, Nevada, Alaska, Oregon, Minnesota, Texas, Kansas,
Florida, North Dakota, Alabama, Missouri, Michigan, New Jersey, and Illinois,
being three-fourths and more of the several States of the Union, have ratified
the proposed article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States on
the effective date of laws varying the compensation of Members of Congress:
Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), That
  the article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States on the
  effective date of laws varying the compensation of Members of Congress,
  duly proposed by two-thirds of each House of the First Congress and ratified
  by three-fourths and more of the several States of the Union, has become
  valid, to all intents and purposes, as a part of the Constitution of the
  United States, and shall be known as the Twenty-Seventh Amendment.
  SEC. 2. The Secretary of the Senate shall provide a copy of this resolution
  to the Archivist of the United States.