SCON 6 HDS
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. CON. RES. 6
To express the sense of the Congress that the President should review
economic benefits provided to the Soviet Union in light of the crisis in
the Baltic States.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 23 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1991
Mr. DOLE (for himself, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. BYRD, Mr. PELL, Mr. WARNER, Mr. LEVIN,
Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. HEINZ, Mr. MOYNIHAN, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. SMITH, Mr. MURKOWSKI,
Mr. GRAMM, Mr. MACK, Mr. SPECTER, and Mr. STEVENS) submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was ordered held at the desk
CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
To express the sense of the Congress that the President should review
economic benefits provided to the Soviet Union in light of the crisis in
the Baltic States.
Whereas the United States has never recognized the forcible annexation of
Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia into the Soviet Union;
Whereas Soviet troops have been engaged in brutal attacks against the people,
government, and communications facilities of Lithuania and Latvia, resulting
in the deaths of at least twenty civilians and injury to over two hundred
civilians;
Whereas Soviet troops appear to be preparing for similar military action
against the people and Government of Estonia; and
Whereas the United States Government has repeatedly communicated to President
Gorbachev that the use of force in the Baltic States could seriously jeopardize
United States-Soviet relations and President Bush has publicly appealed
to the leaders of the Soviet Union to `resist using force' in Lithuania,
Latvia, and Estonia: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved, That,
  SECTION 1. The United States Congress condemns Soviet violence against
  the people and democratic governments of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia.
  SEC. 2. The United States Congress urges the President to (i) immediately
  review all economic benefits provided by the United States Government to
  the Soviet Union, and report to the Congress on whether those benefits
  should be suspended in light of Soviet actions in the Baltic States,
  (ii) immediately suspend all ongoing technical exchanges, (iii) consider
  withdrawing United States support for Soviet membership in the IMF,
  World Bank or GATT, and (iv) not proceed with the provision of MFN trade
  treatment until the following events have occurred:
  (a) Soviet troops refrain from obstructing the functioning of the democratic
  governments of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia;
  (b) Soviet `Black Beret' internal security forces are withdrawn from the
  Baltic States;
  (c) Soviet authorities cease their interference with the telecommunications,
  print, and other media in these states;
  (d) Good-faith negotiations between the democratically elected governments of
  the Baltic States and the Soviet Union on the restoration of the sovereignty
  of those states have begun;
  (e) Concrete assurances are received from President Gorbachev that grain
  purchased with United States credits will not be used to coerce the Baltic
  States, or any republic of the Soviet Union, to sign the Union Treaty.
  SEC. 3. The United States should consult with and encourage our allies to
  follow a policy similar to that outlined in section 2.
  SEC. 4. The United States Congress urges the President to explore means
  of increasing direct diplomatic ties with the Baltic States.
  SEC. 5. The United States Senate will take the status of events in the
  Baltic States into account when considering any and all agreements with
  the Soviet Union in the future.