--S.J.Res.113--
S.J.Res.113
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
Joint Resolution
Prohibiting the export of technology, defense articles, and defense services to
codevelop or coproduce the FS-X aircraft with Japan.
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CODEVELOPMENT OF THE FS-X WEAPON SYSTEM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The President shall ensure that all technology, defense
 articles, and defense services provided by the United States or any United
 States corporation or entity to Japan pursuant to the agreement described
 in subsection (b) to codevelop the Support Fighter Experimental (FS-X)
 weapon system shall be subject to the requirements of subsections (a),
 (c), and (d) of section 3 of the Arms Export Control Act.
 (b) DESCRIPTION OF AGREEMENT- The agreement referred to in subsection (a)
 is the agreement for which the President submitted a certification pursuant
 to section 36(d) of the Arms Export Control Act on May 1, 1989 (transmittal
 no. MC-9-89).
SEC. 2. COPRODUCTION OF THE FS-X WEAPON SYSTEM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In the event that the United States and Japan seek to
 coproduce the FS-X weapon system--
 (1) the United States and Japan shall negotiate and sign a Memorandum
 of Understanding (MOU) containing the terms and conditions for that
 coproduction; and
 (2) such MOU shall--
 (A) prohibit the transfer to Japan of critical engine technologies (including,
 but not limited to, hot section and digital fuel control technologies); and
 (B) prohibit the sale or retransfer by Japan of the FS-X weapon system or any
 of its major subcomponents codeveloped or coproduced with the United States.
 (b) APPLICATION OF ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT- Technology, defense articles,
 and defense services resulting from any coproduction of the FS-X weapon
 system by the United States and Japan shall be subject to the requirements
 of subsections (a), (c), and (d) of section 3 of the Arms Export Control Act.
 (c) POLICY ON UNITED STATES WORKSHARE- It is the sense of the Congress that
 any Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the United States and Japan
 on coproduction should specify that the United States share of the total
 value of the coproduction shall be not less than 40 percent of that value,
 including the value of manufacturing spare parts and other support items
 which are part of the lifetime maintenance costs of the FS-X weapon system.
SEC. 3. GAO REPORT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Beginning 6 months after the date of enactment of this joint
 resolution, and every 12 months thereafter, the Comptroller General of the
 United States, after consultation with appropriate officials of United States
 agencies represented on the Technical Steering Committee, shall submit to the
 Speaker of the House of Representatives and the chairmen of the Committees
 on Foreign Relations, Armed Services, Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
 and Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report describing
 the progress made in implementing the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
 Between the United States Department of Defense and the Japan Defense
 Agency on Cooperation in the Development of the FS-X Weapon System, signed
 on November 29, 1988, and related documents thereto. Such report shall state--
 (1) whether any technology involved in development of the FS-X weapon
 system has been transferred to the Japanese space shuttle program or any
 other part of the Japanese aviation sector or aerospace technology;
 (2) whether any such technology has been diverted to any third party country
 unauthorized to receive such technology, in violation of the license and
 technology assistance agreement for the FS-X weapon system; and
 (3) whether any such technology has been made available, legally or illegally,
 to adversaries who could use such technology to the detriment of the North
 Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the United States, any other member
 country of NATO, Japan, Australia, or New Zealand.
 (b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `Technical Steering
 Committee' refers to the FS-X Technical Steering Committee established jointly
 by the Japan Defense Agency and the United States Department of Defense.
SEC. 4. IMPACT OF MOUs RELATING TO THE FS-X WEAPON SYSTEM ON THE COMPETITIVE
POSITION OF THE UNITED STATES.
 (a) SOLICITATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS- In the implementation of the Memorandum
 of Understanding (MOU) and related agreements between the United States
 and Japan regarding the codevelopment of the FS-X weapon system, and in
 the negotiation, renegotiation, and implementation of future memoranda of
 understanding and related agreements concerning coproduction of the FS-X
 weapon system, the Secretary of Defense shall regularly solicit and consider
 comments or recommendations from the Secretary of Commerce with respect to
 the commercial implications of such agreements and the potential impact on
 the international competitive position of United States industry.
 (b) REVIEW BY SECRETARY OF COMMERCE- Whenever the Secretary of Commerce
 has reason to believe that any such memorandum of understanding or related
 agreement has, or threatens to have, a significant adverse impact on the
 international competitive position of United States industry, the Secretary
 of Commerce may request a review of the agreement. If, as a result of the
 review, the Secretary of Commerce determines that the strategic commercial
 interests of the United States are not being served, the Secretary of Commerce
 shall recommend to the President any modification to the agreement he deems
 necessary to ensure an appropriate balance of interests.
 (c) CONSIDERATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS- (1) The President shall consider the
 recommendations of the Secretary of Commerce concerning--
 (A) the commercial implications of any such memorandum of understanding or
 related agreement, and
 (B) the potential impact on the international competitive position of United
 States industry,
in determining whether such memorandum of understanding or related agreement
shall be implemented or agreed upon.
 (2) Any such memorandum of understanding or related agreement shall not be
 implemented or agreed upon if the President determines that such agreement
 is likely to have a significant adverse impact on United States industry that
 outweighs the benefits of implementing or entering into such an agreement.
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this joint resolution, the terms `defense article' and `defense
 service' shall have the same meanings as are given to those terms in
 paragraphs (3) and (4), respectively, of section 47 of the Arms Export
 Control Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.tary of Commerce with respect to the commercial
implications of such agreements and the potential impact on the international
competitive position of United States industry.
 (b) Review by Secretary of Commerce- T