109th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 233

Expressing the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, commending the resiliency of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, and committing to stand by them in the relief and recovery efforts.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
September 6, 2005
Mr. Frist (for himself, Mr. Reid, Ms. Landrieu, Mr. Vitter, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Lott, Mr. Shelby, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Akaka, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Allard, Mr. Allen, Mr. Baucus, Mr. Bayh, Mr. Bennett, Mr. Biden, Mr. Bingaman, Mr. Bond, Mrs. Boxer, Mr. Brownback, Mr. Bunning, Mr. Burns, Mr. Burr, Mr. Byrd, Ms. Cantwell, Mr. Carper, Mr. Chafee, Mr. Chambliss, Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Coburn, Mr. Coleman, Ms. Collins, Mr. Conrad, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Corzine, Mr. Craig, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Dayton, Mr. DeMint, Mr. DeWine, Mr. Dodd, Mrs. Dole, Mr. Domenici, Mr. Dorgan, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Ensign, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Feingold, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Graham, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Gregg, Mr. Hagel, Mr. Harkin, Mr. Hatch, Mrs. Hutchison, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Inouye, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Jeffords, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kerry, Mr. Kohl, Mr. Kyl, Mr. Lautenberg, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Levin, Mr. Lieberman, Mrs. Lincoln, Mr. Lugar, Mr. Martinez, Mr. McCain, Mr. McConnell, Ms. Mikulski, Ms. Murkowski, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Nelson of Florida, Mr. Nelson of Nebraska, Mr. Obama, Mr. Pryor, Mr. Reed, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Rockefeller, Mr. Salazar, Mr. Santorum, Mr. Sarbanes, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Smith, Ms. Snowe, Mr. Specter, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Stevens, Mr. Sununu, Mr. Talent, Mr. Thomas, Mr. Thune, Mr. Voinovich, Mr. Warner, and Mr. Wyden) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Expressing the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, commending the resiliency of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, and committing to stand by them in the relief and recovery efforts.
Whereas, on August 28, 2005, Hurricane Katrina reached landfall devastating the Gulf Coast States;
Whereas there has yet to be a full accounting for all our citizens whose lives were tragically lost;
Whereas the cost in human suffering is ongoing for hundreds of thousands of people who have lost loved ones, homes, and livelihoods;
Whereas immediate humanitarian aid is still critically needed in many of the devastated regions;
Whereas the devastation on the Gulf Coast of Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama is catastrophic;
Whereas the City of New Orleans is tragically flooded and the surrounding communities of St. Bernard and Plaquemines parishes are devastated;
Whereas every city on the Mississippi Gulf Coast is severely damaged or destroyed, including Waveland, Bay St. Louis, Pass Christian, Long Beach, Gulfport, Biloxi, Ocean Springs, Moss Point, and Pascagoula;
Whereas the States of Florida, Texas, and Georgia also sustained damage;
Whereas Coast Guard search and rescue teams, police, firefighters, the National Guard, and many ordinary citizens have risked their lives to save others;
Whereas doctors, nurses, and medical personnel worked expeditiously to ensure that hospitals, medical centers, and triage units provided needed care;
Whereas the American Red Cross, the Salvation Army, and other volunteer organizations and charities are supplying hurricane victims with food, water, and shelter;
Whereas the State of Texas and numerous other States have welcomed tens of thousands of victims from Louisiana and provided them with aid and comfort;
Whereas the Army Corps of Engineers has worked to reinforce levees in Louisiana; and
Whereas thousands of volunteers and government employees from across the Nation have committed time and resources to help with recovery efforts: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) expresses the condolences of the Nation to the victims of Hurricane Katrina;
(2) commends the resiliency and courage of the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama; and
(3) commits to provide the necessary resources and to stand by the people of the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama in the relief, recovery, and rebuilding efforts.