SRES 202 ATS
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 202
To appoint a special independent counsel to investigate, utilizing the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the General Accounting Office, and any other
Government department or agency as may be appropriate, recent unauthorized
disclosures of nonpublic confidential information.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 24 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 19), 1991
Mr. MITCHELL submitted the following resolution; which was considered and
agreed to
RESOLUTION
To appoint a special independent counsel to investigate, utilizing the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, the General Accounting Office, and any other
Government department or agency as may be appropriate, recent unauthorized
disclosures of nonpublic confidential information.
  Resolved,
SECTION 1. CONDUCT OF THE INVESTIGATION.
  The Federal Bureau of Investigation, the General Accounting Office, and
  any other Government department or agency as may be appropriate, shall be
  utilized in carrying out the investigation required by this resolution
  and the special independent counsel established by this resolution may,
  with the prior consent of the Government department or agency concerned
  and the Committee on Rules and Administration, use on a reimbursable, or
  nonreimbursable, basis the services of personnel of any such department
  or agency.
SEC. 2. OFFICE OF TEMPORARY SPECIAL INDEPENDENT COUNSEL.
  There is established, as a temporary office of the Senate, an Office
  of Temporary Special Independent Counsel, which shall be directed by
  a special independent counsel (referred to as the `special independent
  counsel'), with administrative support from the Secretary of the Senate,
  to conduct an investigation of any unauthorized disclosures of non-public
  confidential information from Senate documents in connection with the
  following investigations:
  (1) the consideration of the nomination of Clarence Thomas to be an
  Associate Justice of the Supreme Court by the Committee on the Judiciary; and
  (2) the investigation of matters related to Charles Keating by the Select
  Committee on Ethics.
SEC. 3. APPOINTMENT OF THE SPECIAL INDEPENDENT COUNSEL AND EMPLOYMENT OF STAFF.
  (a) The President pro tempore of the Senate, upon the joint recommendation
  of the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader, shall appoint and fix
  the compensation at an annual or daily rate of pay, or shall contract
  for the services in the same manner and under the same conditions as a
  standing committee of the Senate may procure such services under section
  202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i)),
  of a special independent counsel to direct the office established in
  the preceding paragraph. The President pro tempore of the Senate, upon
  the joint recommendation of the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader,
  may terminate the special independent counsel at any time.
  (b) The Secretary of the Senate shall, upon the recommendation of the
  special independent counsel and with the joint approval of the Majority
  Leader and the Minority Leader, appoint and fix the compensation of such
  additional staff, including staff appointed at daily rates of pay, as are
  necessary to carry out the purposes of this resolution.
  (c) Any employee appointed under this resolution may be paid at a rate
  not to exceed the maximum annual rate of pay for an employee of a standing
  committee of the Senate.
SEC. 4. EXPENSES OF INVESTIGATION.
  (a) The expenses of the investigation of the special independent counsel
  shall be paid out of the Contingent Fund of the Senate from the appropriation
  account Miscellaneous Items upon vouchers approved by the Secretary of
  the Senate, except that vouchers shall not be required for--
  (1) the disbursement of salaries of employees who are paid at an annual rate;
  (2) payment of expenses for telecommunications services provided by the
  Telecommunications Department, Sergeant at Arms, United States Senate;
  (3) the payment of expenses for stationery supplies purchased through the
  Keeper of the Stationery, United States Senate;
  (4) the payment of expenses for postage to the Postmaster, United States
  Senate; and
  (5) the payment of metered charges on copying equipment provided by the
  Sergeant at Arms, United States Senate.
  (b) In carrying out the provisions of this resolution, the special
  independent counsel may procure the temporary or intermittent services of
  individual consultants, or organizations thereof, in the same manner and
  under the same conditions as a standing committee of the Senate may procure
  such services under section 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization Act
  of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i)).
  (c) The Secretary of the Senate is authorized to advance such sums as may
  be necessary to defray the expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions
  of this resolution.
SEC. 5. COOPERATION OF THE SENATE.
  All committees, Senators, officers, and employees of the Senate shall
  cooperate with the special independent counsel in conducting the
  investigation required by this resolution.
SEC. 6. DEPOSITIONS AND SUBPOENAS.
  (a) The special independent counsel shall have the power to conduct
  depositions, at any time or place, of witnesses under oath, including oaths
  administered by individuals authorized by local law to administer oaths, for
  the purpose of taking testimony upon examination by any counsel designated
  by the special independent counsel, and receiving correspondence, books,
  papers, documents, and other records.
  (b) At the request of the special independent counsel, the President pro
  tempore of the Senate shall have the power to authorize subpoenas, which
  shall be issued by the Secretary of the Senate, on behalf of the Senate for
  the attendance of witnesses at depositions under section 6(a) and for the
  production of correspondence, books, papers, documents, and other records.
  (c) The chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Rules and
  Administration, acting jointly, shall adopt rules for the conduct of
  depositions and other matters related to the investigation required by
  this resolution, which shall be published in the Congressional Record. The
  rules may be amended by the same process.
  (d) If a witness refuses, on the basis of relevance, privilege, or other
  objection, to testify in response to a question or to produce records
  in connection with the investigation required by this resolution, the
  chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Rules and Administration,
  acting jointly, shall rule upon such objection, or they may refer such
  objection to the full Committee on Rules and Administration for a ruling.
  (e) The Committee on Rules and Administration may make to the Senate any
  recommendations by report or resolution, including recommendations for
  criminal or civil enforcement, which the committee may consider appropriate
  with respect to--
  (1) the failure or refusal of any person to appear at a deposition or to
  produce records in obedience to a subpoena or order; or
  (2) the failure or refusal of any person to answer questions during his
  or her appearance as a witness at a deposition,
in connection with the investigation required by this resolution.
SEC. 7. REPORT OF THE SPECIAL INDEPENDENT COUNSEL.
  The special independent counsel shall report the counsel's findings
  regarding all matters relevant to the investigation by transmitting the
  report to the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader. The Leaders shall
  make the report available to all Senators. The Majority Leader and the
  Minority Leader or their designees shall make--
  (1) a determination on referral to the appropriate law enforcement authority
  of any possible violation of Federal law;
  (2) a determination on referring to the appropriate committee any
  disciplinary action that should be taken against any Senator, official,
  employee, or person engaged by contract or otherwise to perform services
  for the Senate, who may have violated any rule of the Senate or of any
  Senate committee;
  (3) a determination on referring to the appropriate executive branch
  any questions involving the conduct of any official or employee of the
  executive branch responsible for the unauthorized disclosure; and
  (4) recommendations for any changes in Federal law or in Senate rules that
  should be made to prevent similar unauthorized disclosures in the future.
SEC. 8. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  The special independent counsel shall submit the report required by this
  resolution not later than 120 days after the appointment of the counsel.