SRES 117 IS
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 117
To express the sense of the Senate that the Administration should expeditiously
and prudently act upon the Soviet Union's request for agricultural export
credit guarantees from the United States to facilitate the sale of food and
feed products in accordance with the emergency needs of the Soviet people,
provided certain conditions are met.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 25, 1991
Mr. DOLE (for himself, Mr. BOREN, Mr. CONRAD, Mr. GRASSLEY, and Mr. HARKIN)
submitted the following resolution; which was ordered held at the desk
RESOLUTION
To express the sense of the Senate that the Administration should expeditiously
and prudently act upon the Soviet Union's request for agricultural export
credit guarantees from the United States to facilitate the sale of food and
feed products in accordance with the emergency needs of the Soviet people,
provided certain conditions are met.
Whereas the Soviet Union is in dire need of United States agricultural
credits to meet its immediate food and feed needs;
Whereas prior to the extension of further credits the United States should
receive firm assurances from the Soviet Government that credits will be
repaid and will be used to meet the food needs of the Soviet population,
and will not be used to support institutions such as the military and the
party apparatus; and that our credits not be used to coerce the movements
for greater sovereignty and democracy in the Baltics and the constituent
republics of the Soviet Union;
Whereas the United States should also be assured that the Soviets will meet
their obligations under the United States-Soviet Long Term Agreement;
Whereas senior representatives of both the Soviet Government and the Government
of the Russian Republic have expressed support for the request and that the
Soviet Government may be willing to provide such assurances as the Senate
finds necessary;
Whereas the sale of United States agricultural commodities and the resulting
increase in farm income contributes positively to the United States' balance
of trade deficit and affects the livelihood of farmers, rural businesses,
and agricultural input industries; Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved, That it is the Sense of the Senate that, the Administration
  should act as expeditiously and prudently as possible to extend agricultural
  export credit guarantees to the Soviet Union, under the assurance that the
  Soviet Union shall provide for the equitable and humanitarian distribution
  of such credits to the peoples of the Soviet Republics.
  SEC. 2. The Administration should provide for the extension of equivalent
  credit tranches which may be extended contingent upon the acceptable
  distribution and/or repayment of previous credits.
  SEC. 3. The Administration should use the export credit guarantee program
  and all other agricultural export assistance programs to the maximum
  extent possible consistent with the real needs of the recipient, to aid the
  export of agricultural commodities experiencing serious price depression,
  such as wheat, corn, soybeans, and dairy products.