SRES 324 ATS
102d CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 324
Relating to declassification of documents, files, and other materials
pertaining to POWs and MIAs.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
July 2 (legislative day, JUNE 16), 1992
Mr. KERRY (for himself, Mr. SMITH, Mr. ROBB, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. BROWN,
Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. HELMS, Mrs. KASSEBAUM, Mr. KERREY, Mr. KOHL, Mr. MCCAIN,
Mr. REID, Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. LAUTENBERG, and Mr. DODD) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and agreed to
RESOLUTION
Relating to declassification of documents, files, and other materials
pertaining to POWs and MIAs.
Whereas mistrust and suspicion of the Government's activities on POW/MIA
matters have hindered efforts to resolve questions about our lost servicemen;
Whereas much of the Government's information on the POW/MIA issue is outdated
and over-classified, and its public release would not harm national security;
Whereas the public interest would best be served if all POW/MIA information
in the Government's possession would be appropriately declassified forthwith;
Whereas the immediate priority of the Government's efforts to resolve the
POW/MIA issue should be swift and comprehensive declassification;
Whereas the Committee has received from the executive branch copies of
documents that are currently classified and that the Committee needs for use at
a public hearing scheduled for August 4-5, 1992, and for subsequent hearings;
Whereas issuance of an Executive order by the President will be the fastest
and most efficient means of declassifying records pertaining to POWs and MIAs;
Whereas issuance of such an Executive order would permit the broadest
declassification of records pertaining to POWs and MIAs; and
Whereas controversies between branches of government should be resolved by
voluntary accommodation whenever possible: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that the President of the
  United States expeditiously issue an Executive order requiring all executive
  branch departments and agencies to declassify and publicly release without
  compromising United States national security all documents, files, and
  other materials pertaining to POWs and MIAs.