SRES 201 IS
102d CONGRESS
1st Session
S. RES. 201
To express the sense of the Senate regarding enforcement of the oilseeds
GATT panel ruling against the European Community.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
October 22 (legislative day, SEPTEMBER 19), 1991
 Mr. DANFORTH (for himself, Mr. PRYOR, Mr. BAUCUS, Mr. BOND, Mr. FOWLER,
 Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. HELMS, Mr. BOREN, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. KERREY, Mr. DURENBERGER,
 Mr. SIMON, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. DIXON, Mr. JOHNSTON, Mr. BURDICK, Mr. WALLOP,
 and Mr. HARKIN):  submitted the following resolution; which was referred
 to the Committee on Finance
RESOLUTION
To express the sense of the Senate regarding enforcement of the oilseeds
GATT panel ruling against the European Community.
Whereas in 1962, the European Community agreed to duty-free bindings on imports
of oilseeds and oilcakes, including those exported from the United States;
Whereas in December 1987, the American Soybean Association filed a section
301 petition with the United States Trade Representative charging that
the European Community's production and processing subsidies on oilseeds
and animal feed proteins were inconsistent with the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade (GATT), and nullified and impaired the European Community's
duty-free bindings granted to the United States in 1962;
Whereas in May 1988, after consultations failed to result in a satisfactory
resolution of this dispute, the United States Trade Representative requested
the GATT Council of Representatives to establish a dispute settlement panel
to consider the matter;
Whereas in July 1988, the United States Trade Representative determined
that the rights of the United States under the GATT were being denied by
the European Community's oilseeds subsidies;
Whereas in December 1989, the GATT dispute settlement panel found that the
European Community's oilseeds subsidies were inconsistent with its GATT
obligations regarding national treatment, and nullified and impaired the
benefit of the duty-free bindings granted to the United States in 1962;
Whereas in January 1990, the European Community accepted the GATT panel ruling
and committed to reforming its oilseeds regime to bring it into conformity
with its GATT obligations beginning in the 1991 crop year;
Whereas in June 1991, the European Community Council of Ministers agreed
that it would adopt by October 31, 1991, a new oilseeds regime that would
bring the European Community into conformity with its GATT obligations;
Whereas the new oilseeds regime proposed by the Commission of the European
Community would continue to provide unacceptably high subsidies for oilseeds,
guaranteeing European Community producers a return of approximately twice
the world market price for oilseeds, and would continue to nullify and impair
the benefit of the duty-free bindings granted to the United States in 1962; and
Whereas the European Community's existing oilseeds regime is seriously
injuring the United States economy and is estimated to cost United States farm
interests at least $2 billion annually in lost sales: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that--
  (1) if by October 31, 1991, the European Community Council of Ministers
  has not adopted a new oilseeds regime that is fully in conformity with its
  GATT obligations, the United States Trade Representative should immediately
  take action under section 301 to compensate for the trade losses caused
  by the European Community's failure to comply with the GATT panel ruling; and
  (2) the actions taken by the United States Trade Representative under
  section 301 should remain in full force and effect until such time as the
  European Community brings its oilseeds regime into conformity with its
  GATT obligations.