SRES 248 IS
102d CONGRESS
2d Session
S. RES. 248
Expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the signing on January 16,
1992, of the agreements for a formal cease-fire in El Salvador, and for
other purposes.
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 23 (legislative day, JANUARY 3), 1992
Mr. DURENBERGER (for himself, Mr. DODD, Mr. LUGAR, Mr. PELL, Mr. DOLE,
Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. CRANSTON, Mrs. KASSEBAUM, Mr. SANFORD, Mr. MCCAIN, Mr. ROBB,
and Mr. LEAHY) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to
the Committee on Foreign Relations
RESOLUTION
Expressing the sense of the Senate regarding the signing on January 16,
1992, of the agreements for a formal cease-fire in El Salvador, and for
other purposes.
Whereas the people of El Salvador have suffered 12 years of civil war,
violence, and destruction, affecting an entire generation of Salvadorans
and virtually every sector of society;
Whereas peace and reconciliation will permit the Salvadoran people to exert
their productive capabilities in efforts to restructure their society,
rebuild their economy, and further strengthen democracy;
Whereas El Salvador has achieved through negotiations a peaceful resolution
to years of bloody and destructive armed conflict;
Whereas the government of President Alfredo Cristiani has successfully
fulfilled its promise to the people of El Salvador made on its first day in
office that it will bring peace to the country;
Whereas the January 16, 1992, signing of the formal cease-fire agreements
represents not only the end of the armed conflict but the beginning of a
process to consolidate peace and democracy in El Salvador;
Whereas the Salvadoran people have declared February 1, 1992, the date of
the beginning of the formal cease-fire, to be National Peace Day;
Whereas the success of the Salvadoran negotiating process, with the active
and indispensable contribution of the United Nations, can provide a model
for the resolution of other conflicts around the world;
Whereas the United States has played a significant role in El Salvador during
the years of crisis; and
Whereas the people of El Salvador and its neighbors in Latin America will
be the primary beneficiaries of peace: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved, That (a) the Senate hereby--
  (1) commends and congratulates all parties to the negotiations, the former
  United Nations Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar, and the Salvadoran
  people for their persistence, commitment, and dedication to the task of
  achieving peace;
  (2) extends particular praise to President Cristiani for the courage and
  determination of his personal efforts to bring peace to El Salvador;
  (3) commends and congratulates the governments of Colombia, Mexico, Spain,
  and Venezuela for their important contribution as `friends' of the United
  Nations Secretary General in support of the negotiating process; and
  (4) encourages the Salvadoran people and all sectors of Salvadoran society
  to commit themselves to the long-term process of consolidating peace,
  democracy, and economic and social development.
  (b) It is the sense of the Senate that--
  (1) the United States should commit itself to providing appropriate
  assistance to the government and people of El Salvador that promotes the
  process of reconstruction, reconciliation, and further strengthening of
  democracy and democratic institutions;
  (2) the United States should commit itself to seeking and encouraging
  other members of the international community to contribute materially to
  this process in El Salvador; and
  (3) the United States should commit itself to cooperating with United Nations
  efforts to monitor compliance with the peace agreements in El Salvador and
  other efforts pertaining to the United Nations role in postwar El Salvador.